1 And he brought me to the temple sanctuary, and he measured the pilasters, six cubits wide on each side; this was the width of the tent. 
2 And the width of the doorway was ten cubits, and the sidewall of the doorway was five cubits on each side, and he measured its length as forty cubits, and its width was twenty cubits. 
3 And he went into the inner room, and he measured the pilaster of the doorway as two cubits and the doorway as six cubits and the width of the doorway seven cubits. 
4 And he measured its length as twenty cubits and its width as twenty cubits to the front of the temple, and he said to me, "This is the most holy place.
5 And he measured the wall of the temple as six cubits, and the width of the side room as four cubits all along the outside wall for the temple all around the wall. 
6 And the side rooms were side by side in three stories and a total of thirty rooms, and there were offsets in the wall, which was for the temple for the side rooms, all the way around to be supports, and so they were not supports extending into the wall of the temple. 
7 And each level widened, and it went around upward to the side rooms for the structure that surrounds the temple upward all the way around, therefore the width increased to the temple upward, and thus the lower level goes up to the upper level by means of the middle story.
8 And I saw for the temple a platform all the way around the foundations of the side rooms; it was the length of a full reed, six cubits long. 
9 The width of the outside wall, which was for the side room to the outside, was five cubits, and a space that was set between the side rooms, which was for the temple 
10 and between the chambers was the width of twenty cubits all around the temple, all the way around it. 
11 And the doorway of the side room faced the open area; one doorway faced the north, and one doorway was to the south, and the width of the place of the open area was five cubits all around. 
12 And the building that faced the courtyard was toward the west, and its width was seventy cubits, and the wall of the building was five cubits wide all the way around, and its length was ninety cubits. 
13 And he measured the temple, and its length was a hundred cubits, and the courtyard and the building and its walls, their length was a hundred cubits. 
14 And the width of the front of the temple and the courtyard to the east was a hundred cubits. 
15 And he measured the length of the building facing the courtyard at the rear and its galleries, a hundred cubits on each side, and also the temple, the court, and the porticos of the courtyard, 
16 the thresholds and the framed windows and the galleries around the three of them. Before the threshold was a covering of wood all around, and from the ground up to the windows, and all around the windows, they were covered. 
17 Above the doorway and up to the inner temple and on the outside, and on all of the wall all the way around in the inner and in the outer areas were patterns, 
18 and it was made of cherubim and palm tree images; a palm tree image between cherub and cherub, and the cherub had two faces. 
19 And the face of a human was toward the palm tree image on the one side, and the face of a fierce strong lion faced the palm tree image on the other side; this work was executed for the entire temple all the way around. 
20 From the ground up to above the doorway, the cherubim and the palm tree images were made, and also the outer wall of the temple.
21 As far as the temple is concerned its doorframe was squared, and before the sanctuary was the appearance as it were the appearance of 
22 a wooden altar that was three cubits high, and its length was two cubits, and its corners for it and its length and its walls were of wood. And he spoke to me, "This is the table that is before Yahweh." 
23 And the two doors were for the temple and for the sanctuary. 
24 And two leaves of a door were for each of the doors, two hinged leaves of a door: two were for the first door, and two leaves of a door were for the other door. 
25 And cherubim were made on them, that is, on the doors of the temple and palm tree images like the ones prepared for the walls; and an overhang of wood was on the surface of the porticos on the outside. 
26 And narrow windows and palm tree images were on either side, and on the side walls of the portico, and the side rooms of the temple and their overhang.