1 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
2 "Son of man, set your face toward the Ammonites and prophesy against them, 
3 and you must say to the Ammonites, 'Hear the word of the Lord Yahweh! Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Because of your saying, 'Ah!' to my sanctuary when it was profaned, and to the land of Israel when it was desolate, and to the house of Judah when they went into the exile, 
4 therefore look! I am giving you to the people of the East as a possession, and they will set up their encampments in you, and they will make in you their dwelling places; they themselves will eat your fruit and they themselves will drink your milk. 
5 And I will make Rabbah as a pasture of camels and the Ammonites as a haunt of flocks, and they will know that I am Yahweh."'" 
6 For thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Because of clapping your hand and stamping with your foot, and because you rejoiced in yourself with all of your malice over the land of Israel, 
7 therefore look! I stretched out my hand against you, and I will give you as plunder to the nations, and I will cut you off from the peoples, and I will destroy you from the countries, and I will wipe you out, and you will know that I am Yahweh."
8 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Because of Moab and Seir saying, 'The house of Judah is like all of the nations,' 
9 therefore, look! I am opening the side of Moab from the cities on its frontier, the glory of the land: Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim. 
10 I will give it to the people of the East in addition to the Ammonites as a possession, so that the Ammonites will not be remembered among the nations. 
11 And on Moab I will execute punishments, and they will know that I am Yahweh."
12 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Because of the doings of Edom in avenging himself with vengeance for the house of Judah, and so they became very guilty and they avenged themselves on them," 
13 therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: "so I will stretch out my hand against Edom and I will cut off from it both human and animal, and I will make it a ruin from Teman and Dedan; they will fall by the sword. 
14 And I will exact my vengeance on Edom by the hand of my people Israel, and they will do in Edom according to my anger and according to my rage, and they will know my vengeance," declares the Lord Yahweh.
15 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Because of the acting of the Philistines in vengeance, so that they avenged themselves relentlessly with malice in themselves for destruction with everlasting hostility, 
16 therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: 'Look! I am stretching out my hand against the Philistines, and I will cut off the Kerethites, and I will destroy the remainder of the seacoast. 
17 And I will execute on them great vengeance with punishments of rage, and they will know that I am Yahweh when I exact my vengeance on them!"