1 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
2 "Son of man, set your face against the mountain of Seir and prophesy against it, 
3 and you must say to it, 'Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Look! I am against you, mountain of Seir, and I will stretch out my hand against you, and I will make you a desolation and a wasteland. 
4 Your cities I will make ruins, and you will be a desolation, and then you will know that I am Yahweh, 
5 because there has been to you an ancient hostility, and you handed over the Israelites to the power of the sword at the time of their disaster, at the time of their final punishment. 
6 Therefore as I live," declares the Lord Yahweh, "Certainly to blood guilt I will prepare you and blood will pursue; since you did not hate blood, it will pursue you. 
7 And I will make the mountain of Seir into a desolation and ruin, and I will cut off from it both he who is crossing over and he who is returning. 
8 And I will fill its mountains with its slain; your hills and your valleys and all of your watercourses, the slain by the sword will fall in them. 
9 An everlasting desolation I will make you, and your cities will not return, and you will know that I am Yahweh. 
10 I do this because of your saying, 'The two nations and the two lands, they will be mine, and we will take possession of it,' and yet Yahweh was there. 
11 Therefore, as I live," declares the Lord Yahweh, "so I will deal with you according to your anger and according to your jealousy that you did, because of your hatred against them, and I will make myself known among them when I judge you. 
12 And you will know that I, Yahweh, I have heard all of your contemptible words that you said against the mountains of Israel, saying, 'They will be desolate; they are given to us as food.' 
13 And you magnified yourself against me with your insolent speech, and you spoke voluminously against me with your words—I heard! 
14 Thus the Lord Yahweh says, 'As the whole world rejoices, I will make you a desolation. 
15 Like your rejoicing over the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, I will do to you; you will be a desolation, mountain of Seir and all of Edom, indeed all of it; and they will know that I am Yahweh.'"'