1 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
2 "Son of man, say to the leader of Tyre, 'Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Because your heart was haughty, and you said, 'I am a god; I sit in the seat of the gods, I sit in the heart of the seas!' But you are a human, not a god, and you gave your heart to be like the heart of a god.
3 Look, are you wiser than Daniel, so that no secret is hidden from you?
4 By your wisdom and by your understanding you have gained for yourself wealth, and you have amassed gold and silver in your treasuries.
5 By the abundance of your wisdom in your trading you have increased your wealth and your heart was proud in your wealth."'"
6 Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Because of your regarding your mind like the mind of a god,
7 therefore look! I am bringing strangers over you, the most ruthless of the peoples, and they will draw their swords against the beauty of your wisdom, and they will defile your splendor.
8 They will thrust you down to the pit, and you will die a violent death in the heart of the seas.
9 Will you indeed still say "I am a god!" before the face of your killers? And in fact you are a human and not a god in the hand of those who pierce you.
10 You will die the death of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers, for I myself have spoken!" declares the Lord Yahweh.
11 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
12 "Son of man, raise a lament over the king of Tyre, and you must say to him, 'thus says the Lord Yahweh: "You were a perfect model of an example, full of wisdom and perfect of beauty.
13 You were in Eden, the garden of God, and every precious stone was your adornment: carnelian, topaz and moonstone, turquoise, onyx and jasper, sapphire, malachite and emerald. And gold was the craftsmanship of your settings and your mountings in you; on the day when you were created they were prepared.
14 You were an anointed guardian cherub, and I placed you on God's holy mountain; you walked in the midst of stones of fire.
15 You were blameless in your ways from the day when you were created, until wickedness was found in you.
16 In the abundance of your trading, they filled the midst of you with violence, and you sinned; and I cast you as a profane thing from the mountain of God, and I expelled you, the guardian cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
17 Your heart was proud because of your beauty; you ruined your wisdom because of your splendor. I threw you on the ground before kings; I have exposed you for viewing.
18 From the abundance of your iniquities in the dishonesty of your trading, I profaned your sanctuaries and I brought fire from your midst; it consumed you, and I have turned you to ashes on the earth before the eyes of everyone who sees you.
19 All who know you among the peoples are appalled over you; you have become as horrors, and you shall cease to exist forever."'"
20 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
21 "Son of man, set your face toward Sidon and prophesy against it, 
22 and you must say, 'Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "Look! I am against you, Sidon, and I display my glory in the midst of you, and they will know that I am Yahweh when I execute my judgments, and I will show myself holy within it.
23 And I will send into it a plague, and blood will be in its streets. And the dead will fall in the midst of her by the sword that is against it from all around; and they will know that I am Yahweh.
24 And there will not be any longer a painful thorn and a sharp thornbush for the house of Israel from anywhere around them from those who are despising them, and they will know that I am the Lord Yahweh."'"
25 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples to which they were scattered about in them, and I show myself holy in them before the eyes of the nations, then they will live on their soil, which I gave to my servant Jacob. 
26 And they will live on it in safety, and they will build houses, and they will plant vineyards, and they will live in safety when I execute my judgments on all those who despise them from all around them, and then they will know that I am Yahweh their God."