1 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
2 "And you, son of man, thus says the Lord Yahweh to the land of Israel: 'The end comes, the end on the four corners of the land. 
3 Now the end is on you, and I will send my anger on you, and I will judge you according to your ways, and I will bring on you all your detestable things. 
4 And my eye will not take pity on you, and I will not show compassion for your ways; on you I will bring your detestable things; they will be in the midst of you, and you will know that I am Yahweh.' 
5 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: 'Look! Disaster after disaster is coming! 
6 The end comes, comes the end! It has awakened against you! Look! It comes! 
7 Doom is coming against you, the dweller of the land; the time comes, the day is near, panic and not joy is on the mountains. 
8 Soon I will pour out my rage on you, and I will fully vent my anger on you, and I will judge you according to your ways, and I will bring on you all of your detestable things. 
9 And my eye will not take pity, and I will not show compassion. According to your ways I will deal with you, and your detestable things will be in the midst of you, and you will know that I am Yahweh who strikes. 
10 Look! The day is coming; doom goes out, the staff blossoms, pride sprouts. 
11 Violence has grown to become a staff of wickedness; none from them will remain, and none from their abundance nor from their wealth; and prominence will not be among them. 
12 The time has come, the day has arrived; let not the buyer rejoice, and let the seller not mourn, for anger is on all their multitude. 
13 For the seller will not return to the merchandise while they are still alive, for the vision is about all of its multitude; it will not change, and a man because of his guilt will not be able to hold onto his life. 
14 They shall blow on the trumpet and prepare everything, but there is no one going to the battle, for my anger is on all of their multitude. 
15 The sword is outside, and the plague and the famine are inside; the one who is in the field will die by the sword, and the one who is in the city, famine and plague will devour him. 
16 And if their survivors will escape, they will be on the mountains, like the doves of the valley, all of them groaning, each because of his guilt. 
17 All of the hands will hang limp, and all of the knees will be wet with urine. 
18 And they will wear sackcloth, and horror will cover them, and on all of the faces will be shame, and baldness on all of their heads. 
19 Their silver they will discard on the streets, and filth will be their gold; their silver and their gold will not be able to rescue them on the day of the wrath of Yahweh. They will not satisfy their hunger and their stomachs they will not fill, for their guilt will be their stumbling block.
20 "'And the beauty of its ornament he made into a prideful thing and made with it their detestable things and their vile idols; therefore I will make it into an impure thing for them. 
21 And I will give it into the hand of strangers as plunder and to the wicked people of the earth as spoil, and they will defile it. 
22 And I will turn my face from them, and they will defile my treasured place, and violent ones will enter and defile it. 
23 Make a chain for the land; it is full of bloody crimes and the city is full of violence. 
24 And I will bring the worst of the nations, and they will take possession of their houses, and I will put to an end the pride of the mighty ones, and their sanctuaries will be defiled. 
25 Anguish comes, and they will seek peace, and there will be none. 
26 Calamity upon calamity will come, and rumor will be upon rumor. And they will seek a vision from a prophet, but instruction will perish from the priest and counsel from the elders. 
27 The king will mourn, and the prince will be dressed with despair, and the hands of the people of the land will tremble. According to their way I will do to them, and according to their judgments I will judge them, and they will know that I am Yahweh.'"