1 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "The gate of the inner courtyard facing east must be shut on the six of the days for work, but on the day of the Sabbath it must be opened and on the day of the new moon it must be opened. 
2 And the prince shall come by way of the portico of the gate from the outside, and he shall stand at the doorframe of the gate and the priests shall prepare his burnt offering and his fellowship offerings, and he shall bow down at the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be closed until the evening. 
3 And the people of the land will bow down at the doorway of that gate on the Sabbaths and on the new moons before Yahweh.
4 And the burnt offering which the prince will offer to Yahweh on the Sabbath day must be six male lambs without defect and a ram without defect. 
5 And the grain offering he will give shall be an ephah for each ram, and for the male lambs the grain offering shall be as much as he wants to give and a hin of olive oil for each ephah. 
6 And on the day of the new moon he will offer a bull, a calf without defect and six male lambs and a ram; they must be without defect. 
7 And an ephah for each bull and an ephah for the ram he must provide as a grain offering, and also for the male lambs as much as he can afford and a hin of olive oil for each ephah.
8 And when the prince comes, on the way of the portico of the gate he shall come and by this way he shall go out. 
9 And when the people of the land come before Yahweh at the festivals, the one coming by way of the gate of the north to bow down must go out by the way of the gate of the south, and the one coming by way of the gate of the south must go out by the way of the gate of the north, so he must not return by the way of the gate by which he came, but before it he shall go out opposite it. 
10 And the prince will be in the midst of them; he will come in when they come in, and when they go out he will go out.
11 And at the festivals and at the appointed times, the grain offering will be an ephah with a bull and an ephah with the ram and with the male lambs, as much as he wants to give, and a hin of olive oil for each ephah. 
12 And when the prince makes a freewill offering, a burnt offering, or a fellowship offering as a freewill offering to Yahweh, the gate facing east will be open for him. And he must offer his burnt offering and his fellowship offering just as he does on the day of the Sabbath, and then he must go out and the gate will shut after he goes out. 
13 And a male lamb, a yearling without defect, he must provide as a burnt offering daily for Yahweh; every morning he must provide it. 
14 And a grain offering he must provide in addition to it every morning, a sixth of an ephah and a third of a hin of olive oil to moisten the finely milled flour as a grain offering to Yahweh as a perpetual statute. 
15 So they must provide the male lamb and the grain offering and the olive oil every morning as a regular burnt offering."
16 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: "If the prince gives a gift to any one from among his sons, it is his inheritance and it will belong to his sons; it is their possession as an inheritance. 
17 And if he give a gift from his inheritance to one from among his servants, then it will belong to him until the year of release, and then it will return to the prince. His inheritance with respect to his sons will be only for them. 
18 But the prince shall not take from the inheritance of the people to rob them, separating them from their property; from his own property he shall bestow an inheritance on his sons, so that my people will not be driven away, any one, from his property."
19 Then he brought me through the entrance which was on the side of the gate to the holy chambers to the priests; the chambers were facing northwards and, look, there was a place at the extreme end westwards. 
20 And he said to me, "This is the place where the priests will boil the guilt offering and the sin offering, and where they shall bake the grain offering in order not to bring them out to the outer courtyard to make the people holy. 
21 And he brought me to the outer courtyard and led me past the four corners of the courtyard; and look, there was a courtyard in each corner of the courtyard. 
22 In the four corners of the courtyard were small courtyards forty cubits in length and thirty cubits in width, each with the same measurements for the four of them with corners. 
23 And a row was all around inside them, and cooking-places were made under the rows of stones all around. 
24 And he said to me, "These are the houses for cooking, where the ones serving the temple shall cook the sacrifices of the people."