1 And the word of Yahweh came to me, saying, 
2 "Son of man, set your face to the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them, 
3 and you must say, 'Mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Yahweh, thus says the Lord Yahweh to the mountains and to the hills, to the ravines and to the valleys: "Look, I am bringing upon you the sword, and I will destroy your high places, 
4 and your altars will be desolate, and your incense altars will be broken, and I will throw down your slain ones before your idols, 
5 and I will place the corpses of the children of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars. 
6 In all of your dwellings, the cities will be desolate and the high places will be ruined, so that your altars will be desolate and will suffer punishment. Your idols will be broken and will come to an end, and your incense altars will be cut down, and your works will be destroyed, 
7 and the slain one will fall in the midst of you, and then you will know that I am Yahweh. 
8 But I will spare some, so there will be for you fugitives from the sword among the nations when you are scattered in the countries. 
9 And your fugitives will remember me among the nations to which they were taken captive, that I was shattered by their adulterous heart which departed from me, and by their adulterous eyes which went after their idols, and they will feel loathing for themselves, for the evil that they did, for all of their detestable things. 
10 And they will know that I am Yahweh; not in vain I spoke to bring to them this evil."' 
11 Thus says the Lord Yahweh: 'Clap your hand and stamp with your foot, and say, "Alas, for all of the detestable things of the evil of the house of Israel, because of which they will fall with the sword, with the famine, and with the plague. 
12 The one who is far away will die by the plague, and the one who is near will fall by the sword, and the one who is being left behind and being spared will die by the famine, and I will complete my rage on them. 
13 And you will know that I am Yahweh when their slain ones are in the midst of their idols around their altars at every high hill, on the tops of all the mountains and under every green tree and under every leafy oak—the place at which they gave a pleasing scent for all of their idols. 
14 And I will stretch out my hand against them, and I will make the land a desolation and a wasteland from the desert to Riblah in all of their dwellings, and they will know that I am Yahweh."'"