1 when I would heal Israel, and the corruption of Ephraim is revealed, and the wicked deeds of Samaria; because they deal in falsehood, the thief breaks in, and the bandit raids the outside.
2 But they did not consider that I remember all their wickedness. Now their deeds surround them; they are before my face.
3 By their wickedness they make the king glad, and the officials by their treacheries.
4 All of them commit adultery, like a burning oven whose baker has stopped from stirring the fire, and from kneading the dough until it is leavened.
5 On the day of our king, the princes became sick with the heat of wine; he stretched out his hand with mockers.
6 Because they are kindled like an oven, their heart burns within them; all night their anger smolders, in the morning it blazes like a flaming fire.
7 All of them are hot as an oven, and they devour their rulers. All their kings have fallen; there is none who calls to me amongst them.
8 Ephraim mixes himself with the nations; Ephraim is a bread cake not turned over.
9 Foreigners devour his strength, and he does not know it; mold is also sprinkled upon him, and he does not know it.
10 The pride of Israel testifies against him— they do not return to Yahweh their God; they do not seek him for all of this.
11 Ephraim was like a dove, silly, without sense; they call to Egypt, they go to Assyria.
12 Just as they go, I will cast my net over them; I will bring them down like the birds of the heavens; I will discipline them according to a report to their assembly.
13 Woe to them, because they have strayed from me! Destruction to them, because they have rebelled against me! I myself would redeem them, but they speak lies against me.
14 They do not cry out to me from their heart, but they wail on their beds; because of grain and new wine they lacerate themselves; they depart from me.
15 And I myself trained and strengthened their arms; but they plan evil against me.
16 They turn, not to the Most High, like a slack bow; their officials will fall by the sword because of the anger of their tongue. This is their scorn in the land of Egypt.