1 When Ephraim spoke, there was terror; he was exalted in Israel, but he incurred guilt through Baal and died.
2 And now they sin again, and they make for themselves a molten idol, idols from their silver metal according to their understanding, all of them the work of skilled craftsmen. To these they say, "Sacrifice!" People are kissing bull calves.
3 Therefore, they will be like the morning cloud, and like the dew of early morning going away, like chaff swirling from the threshing floor, or like smoke from a window.
4 I am Yahweh your God since the land of Egypt; you know no god except me, and no one saves besides me.
5 I fed you in the desert, in the land of drought.
6 When I fed them, they were satisfied; they were satisfied and their heart was lifted up; therefore they forgot me.
7 And I will be like a lion to them; I lie in wait beside the way, like a leopard.
8 I will attack them like a bear robbed of her offspring, and I will tear open the covering of their heart; there I will devour them like a lion, like an animal of the field would mutilate them.
9 I will destroy you, O Israel; who will help you?
10 Where now is your king that he may save you? Where in all your cities are your judges, of whom you said, "Give to me a king and rulers?"
11 I gave you a king in my anger, and I took him in my wrath.
12 The sin of Ephraim is wrapped up; his sin is concealed.
13 The labor pains of childbirth come for him; he is an unwise son because at the proper time, he does not present himself at the mouth of the womb.
14 Should I redeem them from the power of Sheol?  Should I deliver them from death? Where are your plagues, O Death? Where is your destruction, O Sheol? Compassion is hidden from my eyes.
15 Although he may flourish among reeds, the east wind will come, a wind of Yahweh rising from the desert; his fountain will dry up, his spring will be parched. It will plunder his treasury, every object of desire.
16  Samaria will be guilty, because she has rebelled against her God; they will fall by the sword, their children will be dashed to pieces, and their pregnant women will be ripped open.