1 "'When a person sins in that he hears the utterance of a curse and he is a witness or he sees or he knows, if he does not make it known, then he shall bear his guilt. 
2 Or if a person touches anything unclean, whether an unclean wild animal's dead body or an unclean domestic animal's dead body or an unclean swarmer's dead body, but he is unaware of it, he is unclean and he is guilty. 
3 Or when he touches human uncleanness, namely any uncleanness of his by which he might become unclean, but he is unaware of it, and he himself finds out, then he will be guilty. 
4 Or when a person swears, speaking thoughtlessly with his lips, to do evil or to do good with regard to anything that the person in a sworn oath speaks thoughtlessly, but he is unaware of it, he will be guilty in any of these. 
5 When he becomes guilty in any of these, he shall confess what he has sinned regarding it, 
6 and he shall bring his guilt offering to Yahweh for his sin that he has committed: a female from the flock, a ewe-lamb or a she-goat, as a sin offering, and the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin.
7 "'If he cannot afford a sheep, he shall bring as his guilt offering for what he sinned two turtledoves or two young doves for Yahweh, one for a sin offering and one for a burnt offering. 
8 He shall bring them to the priest, and he shall present that which is for the sin offering first, and the priest shall wring its head off at the back of its neck, but he must not sever it, 
9 and he shall spatter some of the sin offering's blood on the altar's side, and the leftover blood must be drained out on the altar's base; it is a sin offering. 
10 The second bird he must prepare as a burnt offering according to the regulation, and the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin that he has committed, and he shall be forgiven.
11 "'But if he cannot afford two turtledoves or two young doves, then, because he has sinned, he shall bring as his offering a tenth of an ephah of finely milled flour as a sin offering. He must not put oil on it, nor should he put frankincense on it, because it is a sin offering. 
12 He shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take a handful of it for its token portion, and he shall turn it to smoke on the altar in addition to the offerings made by fire to Yahweh; it is a sin offering. 
13 Thus the priest shall make atonement for him because of the sin that he has committed in any of these, and he shall be forgiven. It shall be for the priest, like the grain offering.'"
14 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
15 "When a person displays infidelity and he sins in an unintentional wrong in any of Yahweh's holy things, then he shall bring his guilt offering to Yahweh: a ram without defect from the flock as a guilt offering by your valuation in silver shekels according to the sanctuary shekel. 
16 And he shall make restitution for what he sinned because of a holy thing and shall add one-fifth of its value onto it and shall give it to the priest. The priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering, and he will be forgiven.
17 "If a person when he sins violates one from all of Yahweh's commands that should not be violated, but he did not know, then he is guilty and he shall bear his guilt. 
18 He shall bring to the priest a ram without defect from the flock as a guilt offering by your valuation, and the priest shall make atonement for him because of his unintentional wrong (although he himself did not know), and he will be forgiven. 
19 It is a guilt offering; he certainly was guilty before Yahweh."