1 "'And this is the regulation of the guilt offering; it is a most holy thing. 
2 In the place where they slaughter the burnt offering, they must slaughter the guilt offering, and he must sprinkle its blood upon the altar all around. 
3 And he must present all of its fat: the fat tail and the fat that covers the inner parts, 
4 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and he must remove the lobe on the liver in addition to the kidneys. 
5 And the priest shall turn it into smoke it on the altar as a food offering made by fire for Yahweh; it is a guilt offering. 
6 Every male among the priests may eat it; it must be eaten in a holy place; it is a most holy thing. 
7 The instruction is the same for the guilt offering as for the sin offering; it belongs to the priest, who makes atonement with it.
8 "'And the priest who presents a person's burnt offering, to that priest belongs the skin of the burnt offering that he presented. 
9 And every grain offering that is baked in the oven and all that is prepared in a cooking pan or on a flat baking pan belongs to the priest who presented it. 
10 And every grain offering, whether mixed with oil or dry, shall be for all of Aaron's sons equally.
11 "'And this is the regulation of the fellowship offerings that he must present to Yahweh: 
12 If he presents it for thanksgiving, in addition to the thanksgiving sacrifice he shall present ring-shaped unleavened bread mixed with oil and unleavened bread wafers smeared with oil and well-mixed ring-shaped bread cakes of finely milled flour mixed with oil. 
13 In addition to ring-shaped cakes of bread with yeast, he must present his grain offering together with his sacrifice of thanksgiving peace offerings. 
14 And he shall present one of each kind of grain offering as a contribution for Yahweh; it belongs to the priest who sprinkles the fellowship offerings' blood. 
15 And the meat of the sacrifice of his thanksgiving fellowship offerings must be eaten on the day of his offering; he must not leave it until morning.
16 "'But if his sacrifice is for a vow or as a freewill offering, it must be eaten on the day of his presenting his sacrifice, and on the next day the remainder from it may be eaten, 
17 but the remainder from the sacrifice's meat must be burned up in the fire on the third day. 
18 And if indeed some of the meat of his fellowship offerings' sacrifice is eaten on the third day, it will not be accepted; it will not be considered of benefit for the one who presented it—it shall be unclean meat, and the person who eats it shall bear his guilt. 
19 And the meat that touches anything unclean must not be eaten; it must be burned with fire, and as for the clean meat, anyone who is clean may eat the meat. 
20 And the person who eats meat from the fellowship offerings' sacrifice, which is for Yahweh, and whose uncleanness is upon him—that person shall be cut off from his people. 
21 And when a person touches anything unclean, whether human uncleanness or an unclean animal or any unclean detestable thing, and he eats from the meat of the fellowship offerings' sacrifice, which is for Yahweh, then that person shall be cut off from his people.'"
22 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
23 "Speak to the Israelites, saying, 'You must not eat any fat of ox, or sheep, or goat; 
24 and a dead body's fat or mangled carcass's fat may be used for any purpose, but you certainly must not eat it. 
25 When anyone eats fat from the domestic animal from which he presented an offering made by fire for Yahweh, then that person who ate shall be cut off from his people. 
26 And in any of your dwellings, you must not eat any blood belonging to birds or domestic animals. 
27 Any person who eats any blood, that person shall be cut off from his people.'"
28 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
29 "Speak to the Israelites, saying, 'The one who presents his fellowship offerings' sacrifice for Yahweh shall bring his offering to Yahweh from his fellowship offerings' sacrifice. 
30 His own hands must bring Yahweh's offerings made by fire. He must bring the fat in addition to the breast section to wave the breast section as a wave offering before Yahweh, 
31 and the priest shall turn the fat into smoke on the altar, and the breast section shall be for Aaron and his sons. 
32 And the right upper thigh you must give as a contribution for the priest from your fellowship offerings' sacrifice. 
33 As for the one from Aaron's sons who presents the blood of the fellowship offerings and the fat, the right upper thigh shall belong to him as his share, 
34 because I have taken the wave offering's breast section and the contribution offering's upper thigh from the Israelites out of their fellowship offerings' sacrifices, and I have given them to Aaron the priest and his sons from the Israelites as a lasting rule.'"
35 This is Aaron's allotted portion and his sons' allotted portion from Yahweh's offerings made by fire when he brought them forward to serve as priests for Yahweh. 
36 This is what Yahweh commanded to give them from the Israelites on the day of his anointing them; it is a lasting statute for their generations.
37 This is the regulation for the burnt offering, for the grain offering and for the sin offering and for the guilt offering and for the consecration offering and for the fellowship offerings' sacrifice, 
38 which Yahweh commanded Moses on Mount Sinai on the day of his commanding the Israelites to present their offerings to Yahweh in the desert of Sinai.