1 Then on the eighth day Moses summoned Aaron and his sons and Israel's elders, 
2 and he said to Aaron, "Take for yourself a bull calf as a sin offering and a ram as a burnt offering, without defect, and present them before Yahweh. 
3 Then you must speak to the Israelites, saying, 'Take a he-goat as a sin offering and a bull calf and a male sheep, yearlings without defect, as a burnt offering, 
4 and an ox and a ram as fellowship offerings to sacrifice before Yahweh, and a grain offering mixed with oil, because today Yahweh will appear to you." 
5 So they took what Moses had commanded to the front of the tent of assembly, and the whole community presented themselves, and they stood before Yahweh.
6 Then Moses said, "This is the word that Yahweh commanded you to do so that the glory of Yahweh might appear to you." 
7 Then Moses said to Aaron, "Approach the altar and sacrifice your sin offering and your burnt offering, and make atonement for yourself and for the people. And sacrifice the people's offering and make atonement for them, just as Yahweh has commanded."
8 Then Aaron approached the altar, and he slaughtered the bull calf of the sin offering, which was for himself. 
9 Then Aaron's sons presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood, and he put it on the altar's horns, and he poured out the blood on the altar's base. 
10 And the fat and the kidneys and the lobe from the sin offering's liver he turned into smoke on the altar, just as Yahweh had commanded Moses, 
11 but the meat and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp.
12 Then he slaughtered the burnt offering, and Aaron's sons brought the blood to him, and he sprinkled it on the altar all around; 
13 and they brought the burnt offering to him by its pieces, as well as the head, and he turned them into smoke on the altar; 
14 and he washed the inner parts and the lower leg bones, then he turned them into smoke upon the burnt offering on the altar.
15 Then he presented the people's offering, and he took the goat of the sin offering, which was for the people, and he slaughtered it and offered it as a sin offering like the first one. 
16 Then he presented the burnt offering, and he sacrificed it according to the regulation. 
17 Then he presented the grain offering, and he filled his palm with some of it, and he turned it into smoke on the altar besides the morning's burnt offering. 
18 Then he slaughtered the ox and the ram, the fellowship offerings that are for the people, and Aaron's sons brought the blood to him, and he sprinkled it on the altar all around. 
19 And as for the fat portions from the ox and from the ram (the fat tail and the layer of fat and the kidneys and the lobe of the liver), 
20 they placed the fat portions on the breast sections, and he turned the fat portions into smoke on the altar. 
21 Then Aaron waved the breast sections and the right upper thigh as a wave offering before Yahweh, just as Moses had commanded.
22 Then Aaron lifted his hand toward the people, and he blessed them, and he came down after sacrificing the sin offering and the burnt offering and the fellowship offerings. 
23 Then Moses and Aaron entered the tent of assembly. When they came out, they blessed the people, and Yahweh's glory appeared to all the people. 
24 Then a fire went out from before Yahweh, and it consumed the burnt offering and the fat portions on the altar. And all the people saw it, so they shouted for joy, and they fell on their faces.