1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, 
2 "When a person has on his body's skin a swelling or an epidermal eruption or a spot and it becomes an infectious skin disease on his body's skin, then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons the priests. 
3 And the priest shall examine the infection on his body's skin, and if the hair in the infection turns white and the appearance of the infection is deeper than his body's skin, it is an infectious skin disease, and the priest shall examine it, and he shall declare him unclean. 
4 But if a spot is white on his body's skin and its appearance is not deeper than the skin and its hair does not turn white, then the priest shall confine the afflicted person for seven days. 
5 And the priest shall examine it on the seventh day, and if, in his eyes, the infection has stayed unchanged, the infection has not spread on the skin, then the priest shall confine him for seven days a second time. 
6 And the priest shall examine him on the seventh day for a second time, and if the infection has faded and the infection has not spread on the skin, then the priest shall declare him clean—it is an epidermal eruption; and he shall wash his garments, and so he shall be clean. 
7 But if the epidermal eruption spreads further on the skin after showing himself to the priest for his cleansing, then he shall appear a second time to the priest. 
8 And the priest shall examine it, and if the epidermal eruption has spread on the skin, then the priest shall declare him unclean—it is an infectious skin disease.
9 "When an infectious skin disease is on a person and he is brought to the priest, 
10 the priest shall examine it, and if a white swelling is on the skin and it turns the hair white and raw flesh is in the swelling, 
11 it is a chronic infectious skin disease on his body's skin, and the priest shall declare him unclean; he shall not confine him, because he is unclean. 
12 And if the infectious skin disease breaks out all over on the skin and the infectious skin disease covers all of the afflicted person's skin from his head to his feed, so far as the priest can see, 
13 then the priest shall examine it, and if the infectious skin disease covers his whole body, then he shall pronounce the afflicted person clean—all of it has turned white; he is clean. 
14 But whenever raw flesh appears on him, he shall become unclean. 
15 And the priest shall examine the raw flesh, and he shall pronounce him unclean—the raw flesh is unclean; it is an infectious skin disease. 
16 Or, when the raw flesh returns and it has changed to white, then he shall come to the priest, 
17 and the priest shall examine him, and if the infection has changed to white, then the priest shall pronounce the afflicted person clean—he is clean.
18 "And when someone's body has a skin sore on his skin and it is healed 
19 and a white swelling or a pinkish spot appears in the skin sore's place, then he shall show himself to the priest. 
20 And the priest shall examine it, and if its appearance is deeper than the skin and its hair has changed to white, then the priest shall declare him unclean—it is an infectious skin disease; it has broken out in the skin sore. 
21 And if the priest examines it and if there is no white hair in it and it is not deeper than the skin and it is faded, then the priest shall confine him for seven days. 
22 But if it has spread further on the skin, then the priest shall declare him unclean—it is an infection. 
23 But if the spot has stayed unchanged, it has not spread, it is the skin sore's scar, so the priest shall declare him clean.
24 "Or when a body has a burn-spot from fire on its skin and the raw flesh of the burn-spot is pinkish or white, 
25 then the priest shall examine it, and if the hair turns white in the spot and its appearance is deeper than the skin, it is an infectious skin disease—it has broken out in the burn-spot; so the priest shall declare him unclean—it is an infectious skin disease. 
26 But if the priest examines it and if there is not white hair in the spot and it is not deeper than the skin and it is faded, then the priest shall confine him for seven days. 
27 And the priest shall examine him on the seventh day; if it has spread further on the skin, then the priest shall declare him unclean—it is an infectious skin disease. 
28 But if it the spot has stayed unchanged in its place, it has not spread on the skin and it is faded, then it is the burn-spot's swelling, so the priest shall declare him clean, because it is the burn-spot's scar.
29 "And when a man or a woman has an infection on the head or in the beard, 
30 then the priest shall examine the infection, and if its appearance is deeper than the skin and in it is thin bright red hair, then the priest shall declare it unclean—it is a diseased area of skin; it is an infectious skin disease of the head or the beard. 
31 But if the priest examines the diseased area of the skin's infection and if its appearance is not deeper than the skin and there is no black hair in it, then the priest shall confine the afflicted person with the diseased area of skin for seven days. 
32 And the priest shall examine the infection on the seventh day, and if the diseased area of skin has not spread and it does not have bright red hair in it and the diseased area of the skin's appearance is not deeper than the skin, 
33 then he shall shave himself, but he shall not shave the diseased area of skin, and the priest shall confine the person with the diseased area of skin a second time for seven days. 
34 And the priest shall examine the diseased area of skin on the seventh day, and if the diseased area has not spread on the skin and its appearance is not deeper than the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean, and he shall wash his garments, and he shall be clean. 
35 But if the diseased area of skin has not spread further on the skin after his cleansing, 
36 then the priest shall examine him, and if the diseased area of skin has spread on the skin, the priest shall not inspect for bright red hair—he is unclean. 
37 But if, in his eyes, the diseased area of skin has stayed unchanged and black hair has grown in it, the diseased area of skin is healed—he is clean, and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
38 "And when a man or a woman has spots on their body's skin, white spots, 
39 then the priest shall examine them, and if the spots on their body's skin are a faded white, it is a skin rash; it has broken out on the skin—it is clean.
40 "And if a man becomes bald, his head is bald, he is clean. 
41 And if he becomes bald from his forehead, his head is bald, he is clean. 
42 But if a pinkish infection occurs on the bald spot or on the bald forehead, it is an infectious skin disease that sprouts on his bald spot or on his bald forehead. 
43 So the priest shall examine him, and if the infection's swelling is pinkish on his bald spot or on his bald forehead, like the appearance of an infectious skin disease on the body, 
44 he is a man afflicted with a skin disease—he is unclean; the priest certainly shall declare him unclean—his infection is on his head.
45 "As for the person who is afflicted with a skin disease, his garments must be torn and his hair must be allowed to hang loosely, and he must cover his upper lip, and he must call out, 'Unclean! Unclean!' 
46 For all the days during which the infection is on him, he shall be unclean; he must live alone; his dwelling must be outside the camp."
47 "And when the garment has an infectious skin disease on it, on a wool garment or on a linen garment, 
48 or on woven material or on a linen fabric, or on wool or on leather or on any work of leather, 
49 and if the infection is yellowish green or reddish on the garment or on the leather or on the woven material or on the fabric or on any leather object, it is an infectious skin disease and it shall be shown to the priest. 
50 And the priest shall examine the infection, and he shall confine the infected article for seven days. 
51 And he shall examine the infection on the seventh day; if the infection has spread on the garment or on the woven material or on the fabric or on the leather, for any work for which the leather is used, the infection is a destructive skin disease—it is unclean. 
52 And he shall burn the garment or the woven material or the fabric, whether wool or linen, or any leather object that has the infection, because it is an infectious skin disease, which is destructive—it must be burned in the fire.
53 "But if the priest examines it and if the infection has not spread on the garment or on the woven material or on the fabric or on any leather object, 
54 then the priest shall command, and someone shall wash that on which the infection is, and he shall confine it a second time for seven days. 
55 And the priest shall examine it after the infection has been washed off, and if the infection has not changed its outward appearance and the infection has not spread, it is unclean; he must burn it in the fire; it is a fungus on its back or on its front. 
56 But if the priest examines it and if the infection is faded after it has been washed off, then he shall tear it from the garment or from the leather or from the woven material or from the fabric. 
57 And if it appears again on the garment or on the woven material or on the fabric or on any leather object, it is spreading; you must burn in the fire that which has the infection in it. 
58 And the garment or the woven material or the fabric or any leather object that he might wash and the infection is removed from them then shall be washed a second time, and it shall be clean."
59 This is the regulation of the infectious skin disease in the wool garment or the linen or the woven material or the fabric or any leather object to declare it clean or to declare it unclean.