1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses after the death of Aaron's two sons, when they had come near before Yahweh and they died. 
2 And Yahweh said to Moses, "Tell your brother Aaron that he should not enter at any time into the sanctuary behind the curtain in front of the atonement cover that is on the ark, so that he might not die, because I appear in the cloud over the atonement cover.
3 "Aaron must enter the sanctuary with this: a young bull as a sin offering and a ram as a burnt offering. 
4 He must put on a holy linen tunic, and linen undergarments must be on his body, and he must fasten himself with a linen sash, and he must wrap a linen turban around his head—they are holy garments, and he shall wash his body with water, then he shall put them on. 
5 And he must take from the Israelites' community two he-goats as a sin offering and one ram as a burnt offering.
6 "And Aaron shall present the sin offering's bull, which is for himself, and so he shall make atonement for himself and for his family. 
7 And he shall take the two goats, and he shall present them before Yahweh at the tent of assembly's entrance. 
8 Then Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats: one lot for Yahweh and one for Azazel. 
9 And Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot for Yahweh fell, and he shall sacrifice it as a sin offering. 
10 But he must present alive before Yahweh the goat on which the lot for Azazel fell to make atonement for himself, to send it away into the desert to Azazel.
11 "And Aaron shall present the sin offering's bull, which is for himself, and so he shall make atonement for himself and for his family; then he shall slaughter the sin offering's bull, which is for himself. 
12 And he shall take a censer full of burning charcoal from upon the altar from before Yahweh and two handfuls of incense of powdered fragrant perfumes, and he shall bring it from behind the curtain, 
13 and he shall put the incense on the fire before Yahweh so that the cloud of incense might cover the atonement cover, which is on the covenant text, so that he might not die. 
14 And he shall take some of the bull's blood, and he shall spatter it with his finger on the atonement cover's surface on the eastern side, and before the atonement cover he shall spatter some of the blood with his finger seven times.
15 "And he shall slaughter the sin offering's goat, which is for the people, and he shall bring its blood from behind the curtain, and he shall do with its blood as that which he did with the bull's blood, and he shall spatter it on the atonement cover and before the atonement cover. 
16 Thus he shall make atonement for the sanctuary from the Israelites' impurities and from their transgressions for all their sins; and so he must do for the tent of assembly, which dwells with them in the midst of their impurities. 
17 And no person shall be in the tent of assembly when he enters to make atonement in the sanctuary until he comes out, and so he shall make atonement for himself and for his family and for all of Israel's assembly.
18 "Then he shall go out to the altar that is before Yahweh, and he shall make atonement for it; and he shall take some of the bull's blood and some of the goat's blood, and he shall put it all around on the altar's horns. 
19 And he shall spatter some of the blood on it seven times with his finger, and he shall cleanse it and consecrate it from the Israelites' impurities.
20 "And he shall finish making atonement for the sanctuary and the tent of assembly and the altar; then he shall present the living goat. 
21 And Aaron shall place his two hands on the living goat's head, and he shall confess over it all the Israelites' iniquities and all their transgressions for all their sins, and he shall put them on the goat's head, and he shall send it away into the desert with a man standing ready. 
22 Thus the goat shall bear on it to a barren region all their guilt, and he shall send the goat away into the desert.
23 "And Aaron shall enter the tent of assembly, and he shall take off the linen garments that he put on at his coming to the sanctuary, and he shall leave them there. 
24 And he shall wash his body with water in a holy place, and he shall put on his garments and go out and sacrifice his burnt offering and the people's burnt offering, and so he shall make atonement for himself and for people. 
25 And he must turn into smoke the sin offering's fat on the altar.
26 "And the person who sends out the goat for Azazel shall wash his garments, and he shall wash his body with water, and afterward he shall come to the camp. 
27 And the sin offering's bull and the sin offering's goat, whose blood was brought to make atonement in the sanctuary, shall be brought outside the camp, and they shall burn their hide and their flesh and their offal in the fire. 
28 And the person who burns them shall wash his garments, and he shall wash his body with water, and afterward he must come to the camp.
29 "And this shall be a lasting statute for you: in the seventh month, on the tenth of the month, you must deny yourselves and you must not do any work, whether the native or the alien who is dwelling in your midst, 
30 because on this day he shall make atonement for you to cleanse you; you must be clean from all your sins before Yahweh. 
31 It is a Sabbath of complete rest for you, and you shall deny yourselves—it is a lasting statute. 
32 And the priest who is anointed and who is ordained to serve as a priest in place of his father shall make atonement; thus he shall put on the linen garments, the holy garments, 
33 and he shall make atonement for the sanctuary's holy place, and he shall make atonement for the tent of assembly and the altar, and he shall make atonement for the priests and for all of the assembly's people. 
34 And this shall be a lasting statute for you to make atonement for the Israelites one time in a year from all their sins."