1 "'Now if his offering is a sacrifice of fellowship offering, if he brings it from the cattle, whether male or female, he must bring it without defect before Yahweh. 
2 He must lay his hand on the head of his offering and slaughter it at the entrance of the tent of assembly, and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood on the altar all around. 
3 He shall present from the sacrifice of the fellowship offering an offering made by fire for Yahweh consisting of the fat covering the inner parts and all the fat that is on the inner parts, 
4 the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and he must remove the lobe on the liver in addition to the kidneys. 
5 Aaron's sons shall turn it to smoke on the altar in addition to the burnt offering that is on the wood, which is on the fire; it is an offering made by fire as an appeasing fragrance for Yahweh.
6 "'But if his offering for a sacrifice of fellowship offering for Yahweh is from the flock, he must bring a male or a female without defect. 
7 If he brings a sheep as his offering, then he shall present it before Yahweh, 
8 and he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and he shall slaughter it before the tent of assembly, and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle its blood on the altar all around. 
9 He shall present from the sacrifice of the fellowship offering an offering made by fire for Yahweh: he must remove its fat, the entire fat tail near the tailbone, and the fat covering the inner parts and all the fat that is on the inner parts, 
10 the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and he must remove the lobe on the liver in addition to the kidneys. 
11 The priest shall turn it into smoke on the altar as a food offering made by fire for Yahweh.
12 "'And if his offering is a goat, then he shall bring it before Yahweh, 
13 and he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and he shall slaughter it before the tent of assembly, and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle its blood on the altar all around. 
14 He shall present his offering from it as an offering made by fire for Yahweh: the fat covering the inner parts and all the fat that is on the inner parts, 
15 the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is on the loins, and he must remove the lobe on the liver in addition to the kidneys. 
16 The priest shall turn them into smoke on the altar as a food offering; all the fat is an offering made by fire as an appeasing fragrance for Yahweh. 
17 This is a lasting statute for your generations in all your dwellings: you must not eat any fat or any blood.'"