1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 "Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the Israelites, and you shall say to them, 'This is the word that Yahweh has commanded, saying, 
3 "Any man from the house of Israel who slaughters an ox or a sheep or a goat in the camp or who slaughters it outside the camp 
4 and he does not bring it to the tent of assembly's entrance to present an offering to Yahweh before Yahweh's tabernacle, then that man shall be accounted bloodguilty—he has poured out blood, and that man shall be cut off from the midst of his people. 
5 This is so that the Israelites may bring their sacrifices that they are sacrificing in the open field and bring them for Yahweh to the tent of assembly's entrance to the priest, and they shall sacrifice fellowship offerings for Yahweh with them. 
6 And the priest shall sprinkle the blood on Yahweh's altar at the tent of assembly's entrance, and he shall burn the fat as an appeasing fragrance for Yahweh. 
7 And they may no longer sacrifice their sacrifices to the goat-idols after which they were prostituting. This is a lasting statute for them throughout their generations."'
8 "And you shall say to them, 'if there is anyone from the house of Israel or from the alien who dwells in their midst who offers a burnt offering or a sacrifice 
9 and he does not bring it to the tent of assembly's entrance to sacrifice it for Yahweh, then that man shall be cut off from his people. 
10 And if there is anyone from the house of Israel or from the alien who is dwelling in their midst who eats any blood, then I will set my face against the person who eats the blood, and I will cut him off from among his people. 
11 Indeed the flesh's life is in the blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your lives, because it is the blood with the life that makes atonement. 
12 Therefore I said to the Israelites, 'None of you may eat blood, nor may the alien who is dwelling in your midst eat blood.'
13 "And if there is anyone from the Israelites or from the alien who is dwelling in their midst who hunts a wild game animal or a bird that may be eaten, then he shall pour out its blood, and he shall cover it with the soil. 
14 Indeed, the life of all flesh, its blood, is in its life, so I said to the Israelites, 'You may not eat the blood of any flesh, because the life of all flesh is its blood; anyone who eats it must be cut off.'
15 "And if there is any person who eats a dead body or a mangled carcass, whether among the native or among the alien, then he shall wash his garments, and he shall wash himself with water, and he shall be unclean until the evening, and he shall be clean. 
16 But if he does not wash his garments and he does not wash his body, then he shall bear his guilt."