1 Then Yahweh called to Moses and spoke to him from the tent of assembly, saying, 
2 "Speak to the Israelites, and say to them, 'When a person from you presents an offering to Yahweh, you shall present your offering from domestic animals, from the cattle or from the flock. 
3 If his offering is a burnt offering from the cattle, then he must present an unblemished male; he must present it at the door of the tent of assembly for his acceptance before Yahweh.
4 "'He must lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering and it will be accepted for him in order to make atonement for him. 
5 He must slaughter the young bull before Yahweh, then Aaron's sons, the priests, will present the blood and sprinkle the blood all around the altar that is at the door of the tent of assembly. 
6 Then he must remove the skin of the burnt offering and cut it into its pieces. 
7 The sons of Aaron the priest will put fire on the altar and arrange the wood on the fire. 
8 Then Aaron's sons, the priests, will arrange the pieces of meat, the head, and the suet on the wood that is on the fire that is on the altar. 
9 Then he must wash its inner parts and its lower leg bones with water, and the priest will turn into smoke the whole animal on the altar as a burnt offering by fire, as an appeasing fragrance for Yahweh.
10 "'But if his offering is from the flock, from the sheep or from the goats for a burnt offering, he must present an unblemished male. 
11 He must slaughter it on the north side of the altar before Yahweh; then Aaron's sons, the priests, will sprinkle its blood all around the altar. 
12 Then he must cut it into pieces along with its head and its suet; and the priest will arrange them on the wood that is on the fire that is on the altar. 
13 Then he must wash the inner parts and the lower leg bones with water and the priest shall present the whole animal and will turn it into smoke on the altar; it is a burnt offering by fire as an appeasing fragrance for Yahweh.
14 "'But if his offering for Yahweh is a burnt offering from the birds, then he must present his offering from the turtledoves or from the young doves. 
15 The priest will present it at the altar and must wring off its head and turn it into smoke on the altar, and its blood will be drained out on the wall of the altar. 
16 He must remove its crop with its plumage and throw it to the east beside the altar on the place of the fatty ashes. 
17 Then he must tear it apart by its wings but must not sever it; then the priest will turn it into smoke on the altar. It is a burnt offering by fire as an appeasing fragrance for Yahweh.'"