1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 "Speak to the Israelites, saying, 'If a person sins by an unintentional wrong from any of Yahweh's commands that should not be violated, and he violates any of them— 
3 if the anointed priest sins, bringing guilt on the people, then, concerning the sin that he has committed, he shall bring a young bull without defect for Yahweh as a sin offering. 
4 He shall bring the bull to the tent of assembly's entrance before Yahweh, place his hand on the bull's head, and slaughter the bull before Yahweh. 
5 The anointed priest shall take some of the bull's blood and shall bring it to the tent of assembly, 
6 and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and shall spatter some of the blood seven times before Yahweh in front of the sanctuary's curtain. 
7 The priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of fragrant incense before Yahweh, which is in the tent of assembly, and all the rest of the bull's blood he must pour out on the base of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the entrance of the tent of assembly.
8 "'He must remove all the fat from the bull of the sin offering: the fat that covers the inner parts and all of the fat that is on the inner parts, 
9 the two kidneys and the fat that is on them, and the liver's lobe that he must remove in addition to the kidneys— 
10 just as it is removed from the ox of the fellowship offerings' sacrifice—and the priest shall turn them into smoke on the altar of the burnt offering. 
11 But the bull's skin and its meat, in addition to its head, its lower leg bones, its inner parts, and its offal— 
12 he shall carry all of the bull outside the camp to a ceremonially clean place, to the fatty ashes' dump, and he shall burn it on wood in the fire; it must be burned up on the fatty ashes' dump.
13 "'If Israel's whole assembly did wrong unintentionally and the matter was concealed from the assembly's eyes, and they acted against any of Yahweh's commands that should not be violated, so that they incur guilt, 
14 when the sin that they have committed against that command becomes known, the assembly shall present a young bull as a sin offering, and they shall bring it before the tent of assembly. 
15 And the elders of the community shall place their hands on the bull's head before Yahweh, and he shall slaughter the bull before Yahweh. 
16 Then the anointed priest shall bring some of the bull's blood to the tent of assembly, 
17 and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and shall spatter it seven times before Yahweh in front of the curtain. 
18 He must put some of the blood on the altar's horns before Yahweh in the tent of assembly, and all the rest of the blood he must pour out on the base of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the tent of assembly's entrance. 
19 He must remove all its fat from it, and he shall turn it into smoke on the altar. 
20 He shall do to the bull just as he did to the sin offering's bull, so he must do to it. The priest shall make atonement for them, and they will be forgiven. 
21 He shall bring the rest of the bull outside the camp, and he shall burn it just as he burned the first bull; it is the sin offering for the assembly.
22 "'When a leader sins and commits an unintentional wrong against any of the commands of Yahweh his God that should not be violated, so that he incurs guilt, 
23 or his sin he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring a male goat without defect as his offering. 
24 He shall place his hand on the he-goat's head and slaughter it in the place where he slaughtered the burnt offering before Yahweh; it is a sin offering. 
25 The priest shall take some of the sin offering's blood with his finger, and he shall put it on the horns of the altar of the burnt offering, and he must pour out the rest of its blood on the base of the altar of the burnt offering. 
26 He must turn all of its fat into smoke on the altar like the fat of the fellowship offerings' sacrifice, and the priest shall make atonement for him because of his sin, and he will be forgiven.
27 "'If anyone of the people of the land sins by an unintentional wrong by violating one of Yahweh's commands that should not be violated, so that he incurs guilt, 
28 or his sin he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring as his offering a female goat without defect as his offering for his sin that he committed. 
29 He shall place his hand on the sin offering's head and slaughter the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering. 
30 The priest shall take some of its blood with his finger, and he shall put it on the horns of the altar of the burnt offering, and he must pour out all the rest of its blood on the altar's base. 
31 He must remove all of its fat just as the fat was removed from the fellowship offerings' sacrifice, and the priest shall turn it into smoke on the altar as an appeasing fragrance for Yahweh. The priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be forgiven.
32 "'But if he brings a lamb as his offering for a sin offering, he must bring a female without defect. 
33 He shall place his hand on the sin offering's head, and he shall slaughter it as a sin offering in the place where he slaughtered the burnt offering. 
34 The priest shall take some of the sin offering's blood with his finger, and he shall put it on the horns of the altar of the burnt offering, and he must pour out all the rest of its blood on the altar's base. 
35 He must remove all of its fat just as the lamb's fat from the fellowship offerings' sacrifice was removed, and the priest shall turn them into smoke on the altar upon Yahweh's offerings made by fire; and the priest shall make atonement for him because of his sin that he committed, and he will be forgiven.'"