1 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
2 "Command the Israelites that they should bring pure olive oil from beaten olives for the light to present a lamp continually. 
3 Aaron shall arrange for it outside the curtain of the testimony in the tent of assembly from evening until morning before Yahweh continually; it shall be a lasting statute throughout your generations. 
4 On the pure golden lampstand he shall arrange for the lamps before Yahweh continually.
5 "And you shall take finely milled flour, and you shall bake with it twelve ring-shaped bread cakes: each one shall be two-tenths of an ephah. 
6 And you shall place them in two rows, six to the row, on the pure gold table before Yahweh. 
7 And you shall put pure frankincense on each row so that it shall be for the bread as a memorial offering, an offering made by fire for Yahweh. 
8 On every Sabbath he shall arrange it in rows before Yahweh continually; they are from the Israelites as an everlasting covenant. 
9 And it shall be for Aaron and for his sons, and they shall eat it in a holy place, because it is a most holy thing for him from Yahweh's offerings made by fire—a lasting rule."
10 And an Israelite woman's son, and he was an Egyptian man's son, went out in the midst of the Israelites; and the Israelite woman's son and an Israelite man fought in the camp. 
11 Then the Israelite woman's son blasphemed the name, and he cursed, so they brought him to Moses—and the name of his mother was Shelomith the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan. 
12 Then they put him in custody so that the matter might be made clear to them in accordance with the mouth of Yahweh.
13 Then Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, 
14 "Bring the curser outside the camp, and all the hearers shall place their hands on his head, and the whole community shall stone him. 
15 And you shall speak to the Israelites, saying, 'Any man when he curses his God shall bear his sin. 
16 And he who blasphemes Yahweh's name certainly shall be put to death; the whole community certainly shall stone him. As the alien, so the native shall be put to death at blaspheming his name.
17 "'And when a man kills any human being, he certainly shall be put to death. 
18 And he who kills a domestic animal must repay for it life in place of life. 
19 And when a man causes a physical defect in his fellow citizen according to what he has done, so it shall be done to him: 
20 fracture in place of fracture, eye in place of eye, tooth in place of tooth—according to the physical defect he causes to the person, likewise it shall be caused to him. 
21 And a killer of a domestic animal must repay for it, and a killer of a human shall be put to death. 
22 You must have one norm; as for the alien, so it must be for the native, because I am Yahweh your God.'"
23 Thus Moses spoke to the Israelites, and they brought the curser outside the camp, and they stoned him with stones, and the Israelites did just as Yahweh had commanded Moses.