1 Come down and sit on the dust, virgin daughter of Babylon! Sit on the ground without a throne, daughter of Chaldea! For they shall no longer call you tender and delicate.
2 Take the pair of mill stones and grind flour! Uncover your veil, strip off your skirt, uncover your thigh, pass through the rivers!
3 Your nakedness shall be exposed; indeed, your shame shall become visible. I will take vengeance and I will not spare a person.
4 Our redeemer, Yahweh of hosts is his name, the holy one of Israel.
5 Sit silently and go into the darkness, daughter of Chaldea, for they shall no longer call you mistress of kingdoms.
6 I was angry with my people; I profaned my inheritance, and I gave them into your hand. You did not give them mercy; on the aged you made your yoke very heavy.
7 And you said, "I shall be an eternal mistress forever!" You did not set these things upon your heart; you did not remember its end.
8 Therefore now hear this, luxuriant one who sits in security, who says in her heart, "I am, and besides me there is no one. I shall not sit as a widow, and I shall not know the loss of children."
9 And these two shall come to you in a moment, in one day: the loss of children and widowhood shall come on you completely, in spite of your many sorceries, in spite of the power of your great enchantments.
10 And you felt secure in your wickedness; you said, "No one sees me." Your wisdom and your knowledge led you astray, and you said in your heart, "I am, and besides me there is no one."
11 And evil shall come upon you, you will not know; it will be on the lookout for her. And disaster shall fall upon you; you will not be able to avert it. And ruin shall come on you suddenly; you do not know.
12 Stand, now, in your enchantments, and in your many sorceries with which you have labored from your youth. Perhaps you may be able to benefit; perhaps you may scare away.
13 You struggle with your many consultations; let them stand, now, and save you— those who see the stars, divide the celestial sphere, who inform by new moons— from those things that are coming upon you.
14 Look! They are like stubble; the fire burns them completely. They cannot deliver themselves from the power of the flame; there is no coal for warming oneself, no fire before which to sit.
15 So are to you those with whom you have labored, your traders from your youth. They wander, each to his side; there is no one who can save you.