1 "Arise, shine! For your light has come, and the glory of Yahweh has risen on you.
2 For look! darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples, but Yahweh will rise on you, and his glory will appear over you.
3 And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the bright light of your sunrise.
4 Lift up your eyes all around and see! All of them gather; they come to you. Your sons shall come from afar, and your daughters shall be looked after on the hip.
5 Then you shall see and you shall be radiant; and your heart shall tremble and open itself wide, because the abundance of the sea shall fall upon you; the wealth of the nations shall come to you.
6 A multitude of camels shall cover you, the young male camels of Midian and Ephah. All those from Sheba shall come; they shall bring gold and frankincense, and they shall proclaim the praise of Yahweh.
7 All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered to you; the rams of Nebaioth shall serve you. They shall present a sacrifice for favor on my altar, and I will glorify my honorable house.
8 Who are these? They fly like a cloud, and like doves to their coops.
9 Because the coastlands wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish are first to bring your children from afar, their silver and gold with them, for the name of Yahweh your God, and for the holy one of Israel, because he has glorified you.
10 And foreigners shall build your walls, and their kings shall serve you, for in my anger I struck you, but in my favor I have taken pity on you.
11 And your gates shall continually be open, day and night they shall not be shut, to bring you the wealth of nations, and their kings shall be led.
12 For the nation and the kingdom that will not serve you shall perish, and the nations shall be utterly devastated.
13 The glory of Lebanon shall come to you; the cypress, the plane, and the pine together, to glorify the place of my sanctuary, and I will do honor to the place of my feet.
14 And the children of those who oppressed you shall come to you bending low, and all those who treated you disrespectfully shall bow down at the soles of your feet. And they shall call you the city of Yahweh, Zion of the holy one of Israel.
15 Instead of you being forsaken and hated with no one passing through, I will make you an everlasting object of pride, a joy of coming generations.
16 And you shall suck the milk of nations, and suck the breast of kings, and you shall know that I am Yahweh your Savior, and your Redeemer, the Strong One of Jacob.
17 Instead of bronze I will bring gold, and instead of iron I will bring silver, and instead of wood, bronze, and instead of stones, iron. And I will appoint peace as your overseer, and righteousness as your ruling body.
18 Violence shall no longer be heard in your land; devastation or destruction on your borders. And you shall call your walls Salvation, and your gates, Praise.
19 The sun shall no longer be your light by day, and for bright light the moon shall not give you light, but Yahweh will be your everlasting light, and your God your glory.
20 Your sun shall no longer go down, and your moon shall not wane, for Yahweh himself will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall come to an end.
21 And all your people shall be righteous; they shall take possession of the land forever, the shoot of his planting, the work of my hands, to show my glory.
22 The small one shall become a tribe, and the smallest one a mighty nation. I am Yahweh; I will hasten it in its time."