1 Look! here is my servant; I hold him, my chosen one, in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit on him; he will bring justice forth to the nations.
2 He will not cry out and lift up and make his voice heard in the street.
3 He will not break a broken reed, and he not will extinguish a dim wick. He will bring justice forth in faithfulness.
4 He will not grow faint, and he will not be broken until he has established justice in the earth. And the coastlands wait for his teaching.
5 Thus says the God, Yahweh, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and its offspring, who gives breath to the people upon it and spirit to those who walk in it.
6 "I am Yahweh; I have called you in righteousness, and I have grasped your hand and watched over you; and I have given you as a covenant of the people, as a light of the nations,
7 to open the blind eyes, to bring the prisoner out from the dungeon, those who sit in darkness from the house of imprisonment.
8 I am Yahweh; that is my name, and I do not give my glory to another, nor my praise to the idols.
9 Look! the former things have come, and I declare new things. I announce them to you before they sprout up."
10 Sing a new song to Yahweh; praise him from the end of the earth, you who go down to the sea and that which fills it, the coastlands and their inhabitants.
11 Let the desert and its towns lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar inhabits. Let the inhabitants of Sela sing for joy; let them shout loudly from the top of the mountains.
12 Let them give glory to Yahweh and declare his praise in the coastlands.
13 Yahweh goes forth like a mighty warrior; he stirs up zeal like a man of war. He raises the war cry, indeed he raises the battle shout; he prevails against his foes.
14 I have been silent for a long time; I have kept silent; I have restrained myself like one giving birth; I will moan, pant, and gasp together.
15 I will cause mountains and hills to dry up, and I will cause all their herbage to wither; and I will make rivers like islands, and I will cause pools to dry up.
16 And I will lead the blind by a road they do not know; I will cause them to tread on paths they have not known. I will make darkness in their presence into light and rough places into level ground. These are the things I will do, and I will not forsake them.
17 They shall turn back; they shall be greatly ashamed, those who trust in an image, who say to a cast image, "You are our gods."
18 Deaf people, listen! And blind people, look to see!
19 Who is blind but my servant or deaf like my messenger whom I sent? Who is blind like the one who is repaid or blind like the servant of Yahweh?
20 You see many things, but you do not observe. His ears are open, but he does not hear.
21 Yahweh was willing for the sake of his righteousness; he showed his teaching to be great and proved it to be glorious.
22 But this is a people plundered and looted; all of them are trapped in holes, and they are kept hidden in houses of imprisonment. They have become like plunder, and there is no one who saves; like booty, and there is no one who says, "Restore!"
23 Who among you will heed this, will listen attentively and listen, for the time to come?
24 Who gave Jacob to a plunderer and Israel to those who plunder? Was it not Yahweh, against whom we have sinned? And they were not willing to walk in his ways, and they would not obey his law.
25 So he poured the wrath of his anger upon him and the strength of war. And it set him afire all around, but he did not understand; and it burned him, but he did not take it to heart.