1 Thus says Yahweh to his anointed one, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have grasped to subjugate nations before him, and I uncover the loins of kings to open doors before him, and the gates shall not be shut:
2 "I myself will go before you, and I will level the mountains. I will break the doors of bronze and cut throughthe bars of iron.
3 And I will give you the treasures of darkness and treasures of secret places so that you may know that I am Yahweh, the one who calls you by your name, the God of Israel,
4 for the sake of my servant Jacob, and Israel my chosen one. And I call you by your name; I give you a name of honor, though you do not know me.
5 I am Yahweh, and there is none besides me; besides me there is no god. I gird you though you do not know me,
6 so that they may know from the rising of the sun and from the west that there is none besides me; I am Yahweh and there is none besides me.
7 I form light and I create darkness; I make peace and I create evil; I am Yahweh; I do all these things.
8 Trickle, O heavens, from above, and let clouds trickle with righteousness; let the earth open so that salvation may be fruitful, and let it cause righteousness to sprout along with it. I myself, Yahweh, have created it.
9 Woe to the one who strives with his maker, a potsherd among potsherds of earth! Does the clay say to the one who fashions it, 'What are you making?' and 'Your work has no hands'?
10 Woe to the one who says to a father, 'What you are begetting?' or to a woman, 'With what are you in labor?'"
11 Thus says Yahweh, the holy one of Israel, and its maker: "Ask me of the things to come about my children, and you command me about the work of my hands.
12 I myself made the earth, and I created humankind upon it. I, my hands, stretched out the heavens, and I commanded all their host.
13 I myself have stirred him up in righteousness, and I will make all his paths smooth. He himself shall build my city, and he shall set my exiles free, not for price or a gift," says Yahweh of hosts.
14 Thus says Yahweh: "The acquisition of Egypt and the merchandise of Cush and the Sabeans, tall men, shall pass over to you; they shall be yours, and they shall walk behind you. They shall pass over in chains, and they shall bow down to you; they will pray to you: 'Surely God is with you, and there is no other. Besides him there is no God.'"
15 Surely you are a God who keeps yourself hidden, God of Israel, the savior.
16 All of them are ashamed and indeed humiliated; the craftsmen of idols go together in insult.
17 Israel is saved by Yahweh with everlasting salvation; you shall not be ashamed, and you shall not be humiliated to all eternity.
18 For thus says Yahweh, who created the heavens, he is God, who formed the earth and who made it. He himself established it; he did not create it as emptiness— he formed it for inhabiting. "I am Yahweh and there is none besides me.
19 I have spoken not in secrecy, in a place, a land, of darkness, I have not said to the descendants of Jacob, 'Seek me in vain!' I, Yahweh, am speaking righteousness, declaring uprightness.
20 Assemble and come; draw near together, survivors of the nations! They do not know, those who carry their wooden idols and pray to a god who cannot save.
21 Declare and present your case, also let them consult together! Who made this known from former times, declared it from of old? Was it not I, Yahweh? And there is no other god besides me, a righteous God besides me, and no savior besides me.
22 Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God and there is none besides me.
23 I have sworn by myself; a word that shall not return has gone forth from my mouth in righteousness: 'Every knee shall kneel down to me; every tongue shall swear.'
24 'Only in Yahweh,' one shall say to me, 'are righteousness and strength.' He shall come to him, and all those who were angry with him shall be ashamed.
25 In Yahweh all the offspring of Israel shall be in the right, and they shall boast."