1 The word that Isaiah son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem:
2 And it shall happen in the future of the days the mountain of the house of Yahweh shall be established; it will be among the highest of the mountains, and it shall be raised from the hills. All of the nations shall travel to him;
3 many peoples shall come. And they shall say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of Yahweh, to the house of the God of Jacob, and may he teach us part of his ways, and let us walk in his paths." For instruction shall go out from Zion, and the word of Yahweh from Jerusalem.
4 He shall judge between the nations and he shall arbitrate for many peoples. They shall beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruning hooks. A nation shall not lift up a sword against a nation, and they shall not learn war again.
5 House of Jacob, come and let us walk in the light of Yahweh.
6 For you have forsaken your people, house of Jacob, because they are full from the east, and of soothsayers like the Philistines, and they make alliances with the offspring of foreigners.
7 And its land is filled with silver and gold, and there is no end to its treasures; and its land is filled with horses, and there is no end to its chariots.
8 Its land is filled with idols; they bow down to the work of their hands, to what they made with their fingers.
9 So humanity is humbled; everyone is humbled, and you must not forgive them.
10 Enter into the rock and hide yourself in the dust from the presence of the terror of Yahweh and from the glory of his majesty.
11 The haughty eyes of humanity will be brought low, and the pride of everyone will be humbled, and Yahweh alone will be exalted on that day.
12 For there is a day for Yahweh of hosts against all of the proud and the lofty and against all that is lifted up and humble,
13 and against all the lofty and lifted up cedars of Lebanon, and against all the large trees of Bashan,
14 and against all the high mountains, and against all the lofty hills,
15 and against every kind of high tower, and against every kind of fortified wall,
16 and against all the ships of Tarshish, and against all the ships of desire.
17 And the haughtiness of the people shall be humbled, and the pride of everyone shall be brought low, and Yahweh alone will be exalted on that day.
18 And the idols shall pass away entirely,
19 and they will enter into the caves of the rocks and into the holes of the ground from the presence of the terror of Yahweh and from the glory of his majesty when he rises to terrify the earth.
20 On that day humanity will throw away its idols of silver and its idols of gold, which they made for it to worship, to the rodents and to the bats—
21 to enter into the crevices of the rocks and into the clefts of the crags from the presence of the terror of Yahweh and from the glory of his majesty, when he rises to terrify the earth.
22 Turn away from humanity, who has breath in its nostrils, for by what is it esteemed?