1 Hear this, house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel and came out from the waters of Judah, who swear by the name of Yahweh, and invoke the God of Israel, but not in truth and not in righteousness.
2 For they call themselves after the holy city, and they lean on the God of Israel— Yahweh of hosts is his name.
3 "I declared the former things from of old, and they went out from my mouth. And I announced them suddenly; I acted, and they came to pass,
4 because I know that you are obstinate, and your neck an iron sinew, and your forehead bronze.
5 And I declared them to you from of old; I announced them to you before they came to pass so that you would not say, 'My idol did them, and my image and my cast image commanded them.'
6 You have heard; see it all. And will you not declare it? I announce new things to you from this time and hidden things that you have not known.
7 Now they are created, and not from of old, and before today, and you have not heard them so that you could not say, "Look! I knew them."
8 Neither have you heard, nor have you known, nor from of old has your ear been opened. For I knew you would deal treacherously, very treacherously, and you are called a rebel from the womb.
9 For the sake of my name I refrain from my anger, and for my praise I restrain it for you so as not to cut you off.
10 Look! I have refined you, but not like silver; I have chosen you in the furnace of misery.
11 For my own sake, for my own sake I do it; for why should it be defiled? And I will not give my glory to another."
12 "Listen to me, Jacob, and Israel, whom I called: I am he. I am the first; also I am the last.
13 Indeed, my hand founded the earth, and my right hand spread out the heavens; when I summon them, they stand in position together.
14 Assemble, all of you, and hear! Who among them declared these things? Yahweh loves him; he shall perform his wish against Babylon and his arm against the Chaldeans.
15 I, I myself, I have spoken! Indeed, I have called him. I have brought him, and he will be successful in his way.
16 Draw near to me; hear this! I have not spoken in secrecy from the beginning; from the time it came to be, there I have been; And now the Lord Yahweh has sent me and his Spirit."
17 Thus says Yahweh, your redeemer, the holy one of Israel: "I am Yahweh your God, who teaches you to profit, leads you in the way you should go.
18 O that you had listened attentively to my commandments! Then your prosperity would have been like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea.
19 And your offspring would have been like the sand, and the descendants of your body like its grains. It would not be cut off, and its name would not be destroyed from my presence."
20 Go out from Babylon! Flee from Chaldea! Proclaim it with a shout of rejoicing; proclaim this! Send it forth to the end of the earth; say, "Yahweh has redeemed his servant Jacob!"
21 And when he led them through the deserts, they were not thirsty; he made water flow from the rock for them, and he split the rock, and the water gushed out.
22 "There is no peace," says Yahweh, "for the wicked."