1 And Bezalel made the ark of acacia wood, two and a half cubits its length and a cubit and a half its width and a cubit and a half its height. 
2 And he overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and he made for it a gold molding all around. 
3 And he cast for it four gold rings on its four feet; and two rings were on its one side, and two rings were on its second side. 
4 And he made poles of acacia wood, and he overlaid them with gold. 
5 And he put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry the ark.
6 And he made an atonement cover of pure gold, two and a half cubits its length and a cubit and a half its width. 
7 And he made two cherubim of gold; he made them of hammered work at the two ends of the atonement cover. 
8 One cherub was at one end, and one cherub was at the other end of the atonement cover; he made the cherubim at its two ends. 
9 And the cherubim were with outspread wings above, covering with their wings over the atonement cover and facing each other; the faces of the cherubim were toward the atonement cover.
10 And he made the table of acacia wood, two cubits its length and a cubit its width and a cubit and a half its height. 
11 And he overlaid it with pure gold, and he made for it a gold molding all around. 
12 And he made for it a handbreadth rim all around, and he made a gold molding for its rim all around. 
13 And he cast for it four gold rings, and he put the rings on the four corners where its four legs were. 
14 The rings were near the rim as holders for the poles to carry the table. 
15 And he made the poles of acacia wood, and he overlaid them with gold to carry the table. 
16 And he made the vessels that were on the table—its plates and its ladles, and its bowls and its pitchers with which libations were poured—of pure gold.
17 And he made the lampstand of pure gold; he made the lampstand of hammered work—its base and its branch, its cups, its buds, and its blossoms were all part of it. 
18 And six branches were going out from its sides, three branches of the lampstand from its one side and three branches of the lampstand from its second side. 
19 Three almond-flower cups were on the one branch with a bud and a blossom, and three almond-flower cups were on the one branch with a bud and a blossom—likewise for the six branches going out from the lampstand. 
20 And on the lampstand were four almond-flower cups, with its buds and its blossoms. 
21 And a bud was under the two branches that came from it, and a bud under the two branches from it, and a bud under the two branches from it, likewise for the six branches coming out from the lampstand. 
22 Their buds and their branches were from it, all of it one piece of pure gold, hammered work. 
23 And he made its seven lamps and its snuffers and its fire pans of pure gold. 
24 He made it from a talent of pure gold and all its pieces of equipment.
25 And he made the incense altar of acacia wood, a cubit its length and a cubit its width—a square—and two cubits its height; its horns were of one piece with it. 
26 And he overlaid it with pure gold—its top and its sides all around and its horns—and he made for it a gold molding all around. 
27 And he made for it two gold rings under its molding on two opposite sides as holders for poles to carry it with them. 
28 And he made the poles of acacia wood, and he overlaid them with gold. 
29 And he made the holy anointing oil and the pure fragrant incense—work of a perfumer.