1 "And the tabernacle you will make with ten curtains; you will make them of finely twisted linen and blue and purple and crimson yarns, with cherubim, the work of a skilled craftsman. 
2 The length of the one curtain will be twenty-eight cubits, and the width will be four cubits for the one curtain; one measure will be for all the curtains. 
3 Five curtains will be joined to one another, and five curtains joined to one another. 
4 And you will make loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain, at the end in the set; and you will do so on the edge of the end curtain in the second set. 
5 You will make fifty loops on the one curtain, and you will make fifty loops on the end of the curtain that is in the second set; the loops are to be opposite to one another. 
6 And you will make fifty gold clasps and join the curtains to one another with the clasps, so that the tabernacle will be one.
7 "And you will make curtains of goat hair for a tent over the tabernacle; you will make them eleven curtains. 
8 The length of the one curtain will be thirty cubits, and the width will be four cubits for the one curtain; one measure will be for the eleven curtains. 
9 And you will join five curtains together and six curtains together, and you will fold double the sixth curtain at the front of the tent. 
10 And you will make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain at the end of the first set and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain in the second set. 
11 And you will make fifty bronze clasps, and you will put the clasps in the loops and join the tent, so that it will be one.
12 "And the surplus in the curtains of the tent will be an overhang; the surplus half curtain will hang over the back of the tabernacle. 
13 And a cubit from one side and a cubit from the other side in the surplus in the length of the curtains of the tent will be hung over the sides of the tabernacle equally to cover it.
14 "And you will make a covering for the tent of red-dyed ram skins and a covering of fine leather to go above.
15 "And you will make the frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood as uprights. 
16 The length of the frame will be ten cubits, and the width of the one frame will be one and a half cubits. 
17 You will make two pegs for the one frame for joining each to another and likewise for all the frames of the tabernacle. 
18 And you will make the frames for the tabernacle with twenty frames for the south side. 
19 And you will make forty silver bases under the twenty frames, with two bases under the one frame for its two pegs and two bases under the next frame for its two pegs. 
20 And for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side, there will be twenty frames 
21 and their forty silver bases, with two bases under the one frame and two bases under the next frame.
22 "And for the rear of the tabernacle on the west you will make six frames. 
23 And you will make two frames for the tabernacle corners at the rear. 
24 They will be double at the bottom, and they will be completely together on its top to the one ring; it will be likewise for the two of them; they will be for the two corners. 
25 And there will be eight frames and their silver bases, sixteen bases, with two bases under the one frame and two bases under the next frame.
26 "You will make five bars of acacia wood for the frames on the one side of the tabernacle, 
27 and five bars for the frames on the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames on the side of the tabernacle at the rear on the west. 
28 And the bar in the middle, in the midst of the frames will run from end to end. 
29 And you will overlay the frames with gold, and you will make their rings of gold as holders for the bars, and you will overlay the bars with gold. 
30 And you will erect the tabernacle according to its plan, which you have been shown on the mountain.
31 "And you will make a curtain of blue and purple and crimson yarns and finely twisted linen, the work of a skilled craftsman; he will make it with cherubim. 
32 And you will put it on four acacia pillars overlaid with gold with their gold hooks on four silver bases. 
33 And you will put the curtain under the clasps, and you will bring the ark of the testimony there inside the curtain, and the curtain will separate for you between the holy and the most holy place. 
34 And you will put the atonement cover on the ark of the testimony in the most holy place. 
35 And you will place the table outside the curtain and the lampstand opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle, and you will put the table on the north side.
36 "And you will make for the entrance of the tent a screen of blue and purple and crimson yarns and finely twisted linen, the work of an embroiderer. 
37 And you will make for the screen five acacia pillars, and you will overlay them with gold with their gold hooks, and you will cast for them five bronze bases.