1 And he made the burnt-offering altar of acacia wood; its length was five cubits, and its width was five cubits—it was square—and its height was three cubits. 
2 And he made its horns on its four corners; its horns were of one piece with it; and he overlaid it with bronze. 
3 And he made all the equipment of the altar—the pots and the shovels and the sprinkling bowls and the forks and the fire pans—all its equipment he made with bronze. 
4 And he made for the altar a grating, a work of bronze network under its ledge, below, up to its middle. 
5 And he cast four rings on the four ends of the bronze grating as holders for the poles. 
6 And he made the poles of acacia wood, and he overlaid them with bronze. 
7 And he put the poles into the rings on the sides of the altar to carry it with them. He made it hollow with boards.
8 And he made the basin of bronze and its stand of bronze from the mirrors of the serving women who served at the entrance of the tent of assembly.
9 And he made the courtyard; for the south side were the hangings of the court of finely twisted linen, one hundred cubits, 
10 with their twenty pillars and their twenty bases of bronze and with the hooks of the pillars and their bands of silver. 
11 And for the north side the hangings were one hundred cubits with their twenty pillars and their twenty bases of bronze and with the hooks of the pillars and their bands of silver. 
12 And for the west side fifty cubits of hangings with their ten pillars and their ten bases and with the hooks of the pillars and their bands of silver. 
13 And for the eastward side, toward sunrise, fifty cubits; 
14 fifteen cubits of hangings were to the shoulder, with their three pillars and their three bases, 
15 and for the second shoulder on each side of the gate of the courtyard were fifteen cubits of hangings, with their three pillars and their three bases. 
16 All the hangings of the courtyard all around were finely twisted linen, 
17 and the bases for the pillars were bronze, the hooks of the pillars and their bands were silver, and the overlay of their tops was silver, and all the pillars of the courtyard were banded with silver.
18 And the screen of the gate of the courtyard was the work of an embroiderer, with blue and purple and crimson yarns and finely twisted linen; it was twenty cubits long and five cubits high, like the hangings of the courtyard, 
19 and with their four pillars and their four bases of bronze, with their silver hooks and with their tops and their bands of silver. 
20 And all the pegs for the tabernacle and for the courtyard all around were bronze.
21 These are the records of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the testimony, which were recorded at the command of Moses, the work of the Levites, in the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
22 And Bezalel the son of Uri the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, did all that Yahweh commanded Moses. 
23 And with him was Oholiab the son of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan, a skilled craftsman and a designer and an embroiderer with the blue and with the purple and with the crimson yarns and with the linen.
24 And all the gold used for the work, in the work of the sanctuary, it was the gold of the wave offering—twenty-nine talents and seven hundred and thirty shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel.
25 And the silver recorded from the community was a hundred talents and a thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel. 
26 It was a bekah for the individual, the half shekel according to the sanctuary shekel, for everyone who was counted, from twenty years old and above, for six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty. 
27 And it was one hundred talents of the silver to cast the bases of the sanctuary and the bases of the curtain—one hundred bases for one hundred talents of silver, a talent for each base. 
28 And from the thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and he overlaid their tops, and he made bands for them.
29 And the bronze of the wave offering was seventy talents and two thousand four hundred shekels. 
30 And he made with it the bases of the entrance of the tent of assembly and the bronze altar and the bronze grating that belonged to it and all the equipment of the altar 
31 and the bases of the courtyard all around and the bases of the gate of the courtyard and all the pegs of the tabernacle and all the pegs of the courtyard all around.