1 And Bezalel and Oholiab and everyone who is skilled of heart in whom Yahweh has put wisdom and skill to know and to do all the work for the service of the sanctuary—they will do it, according to all that Yahweh has commanded."
2 And Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab and everyone skilled of heart, in whose heart Yahweh had put skill, all whose heart lifted him to come near to the work in order to do it. 
3 And they took from Moses all the contributions that the Israelites had brought for the work of the service for the sanctuary in order to do it, and they still brought to him voluntary offerings every morning. 
4 And all the skilled workers who were doing all the work for the sanctuary came, each from his work that they were doing. 
5 And they said to Moses, saying, "The people are bringing more than enough for the service of the work that Yahweh has commanded to be done." 
6 And Moses commanded, and they proclaimed the message in the camp, saying, "Let no man or woman again make anything for the sanctuary contribution." And so the people were restrained from bringing. 
7 And the material was enough for doing all the work, and it was left over.
8 And all who were skilled of heart among the doers of the work made the tabernacle with ten curtains of finely twisted linen and blue and purple and crimson yarns, with cherubim; he made them, the work of a skilled craftsman. 
9 The length of the one curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the width was four cubits for the one curtain; one measurement was for all the curtains. 
10 And he joined five of the curtains one to another, and five curtains he joined one to another. 
11 And he made loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain, at the end in the set; so he did on the edge of the end curtain in the second set. 
12 He made fifty loops on the one curtain, and he made fifty loops on the end of the curtain that was in the second set; the loops were opposite one to another. 
13 And he made fifty gold clasps and joined the curtains one to another with the clasps, so that the tabernacle was one.
14 And he made curtains of goat hair for a tent over the tabernacle; he made them eleven curtains. 
15 The length of the one curtain was thirty cubits, and the width was four cubits for the one curtain; one measure was for the eleven curtains. 
16 And he joined five curtains together and six curtains together. 
17 And he made fifty loops on the edge of the end curtain in the set, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain in the second set. 
18 And he made fifty bronze clasps for joining the tent to become one.
19 And he made a covering for the tent of red-dyed ram skin and a covering of fine leather to go above.
20 And he made the frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood as uprights. 
21 The length of the frame was ten cubits, and the width of the one frame was one and a half cubits. 
22 He made two pegs for the one frame for joining one to another and likewise for all the frames of the tabernacle. 
23 And he made the frames for the tabernacle with twenty frames for the south side. 
24 And he made forty silver bases under the twenty frames, with two bases under the one frame for its two pegs and two bases under the next frame for its two pegs. 
25 And for the second side of the tabernacle, the north side, he made twenty frames 
26 and their forty silver bases, with two bases under the one frame and two bases under the next frame.
27 And for the rear of the tabernacle on the west he made six frames. 
28 And he made two frames for the tabernacle corners at the rear. 
29 And they were double at the bottom, and they were completely together on its top to the one ring; he did likewise for the two of them, for the two corners. 
30 And there were eight frames and their sixteen silver bases, two bases, two bases under the one frame.
31 And he made five bars of acacia wood for the frames on the one side of the tabernacle, 
32 and five bars for the frames on the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames at the rear on the west. 
33 And he made the middle bar to run in the midst of the frames from end to end. 
34 And he overlaid the frames with gold, and he made their rings of gold as holders for the bars, and he overlaid the bars with gold. 
35 And he made the curtain of blue and purple and crimson yarns and finely twisted linen, the work of a craftsman; he made it with cherubim. 
36 And he made for it four acacia pillars, and he overlaid them with gold, with their gold hooks, and he cast for them four silver bases.
37 And he made for the entrance of the tent a screen of blue and purple and crimson yarns and finely twisted linen, the work of an embroiderer, 
38 and the five pillars and their hooks, and he overlaid their tops and their connections with gold, and their five bases were bronze.