1 A curse on the designers of evil, working on their beds! in the morning light they do it, because it is in their power.
2 They have a desire for fields and take them by force; and for houses and take them away: they are cruel to a man and his family, even to a man and his heritage.
3 For this cause the Lord has said, See, against this family I am purposing an evil from which you will not be able to take your necks away, and you will be weighted down by it; for it is an evil time.
4 In that day this saying will be said about you, and this song of grief will be made: The heritage of my people is measured out, and there is no one to give it back; those who have made us prisoners have taken our fields from us, and complete destruction has come to us.
5 For this cause you will have no one to make the decision by the measuring line in the meeting of the Lord.
6 Let not words like these be dropped, they say: Shame and the curse will not come to the family of Jacob!
7 Is the Lord quickly made angry? are these his doings? do not his words do good to his people Israel?
8 As for you, you have become haters of those who were at peace with you: you take the clothing of those who go by without fear, and make them prisoners of war.
9 The women of my people you have been driving away from their dearly loved children; from their young ones you are taking my glory for ever.
10 Up! and go; for this is not your rest: because it has been made unclean, the destruction ordered will come on you.
11 If a man came with a false spirit of deceit, saying, I will be a prophet to you of wine and strong drink: he would be the sort of prophet for this people.
12 I will certainly make all of you, O Jacob, come together; I will get together the rest of Israel; I will put them together like the sheep in their circle: like a flock in their green field; they will be full of the noise of men.
13 The opener of the way will go up before them: forcing their way out they will go on to the doorway and out through it: their king will go on before them, and the Lord at their head.
