1 Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ, according to  command of God our Saviour, and of Christ Jesus our hope,
2 to Timotheus,  true child in faith: grace, mercy, peace, from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
3 Even as I begged thee to remain in Ephesus, [when I was] going to Macedonia, that thou mightest enjoin some not to teach other doctrines,
4 nor to turn their minds to fables and interminable genealogies, which bring questionings rather than  God's dispensation, which  in faith.
5 But the end of what is enjoined is love out of a pure heart and a good conscience and unfeigned faith;
6 which  some having missed, have turned aside to vain discourse,
7 desiring to be law-teachers, not understanding either what they say or concerning what they  strenuously affirm.
8 Now we know that the law  good if any one uses it lawfully,
9 knowing this, that law has not its application to a righteous person, but to  lawless and insubordinate, to  impious and sinful, to  unholy and profane, to smiters of fathers and smiters of mothers; to murderers,
10 fornicators, sodomites, kidnappers, liars, perjurers; and if any other thing is opposed to sound teaching,
11 according to the glad tidings of the glory of the blessed God, with which *I* have been entrusted.
12  I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has given me power, that he has counted me faithful, appointing to ministry him
13 who before was a blasphemer and persecutor, and an insolent overbearing : but mercy was shewn me because I did it ignorantly, in unbelief.
14 But the grace of our Lord surpassingly over-abounded with faith and love, which  in Christ Jesus.
15 Faithful  the word, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom *I* am  first.
16 But for this reason mercy was shewn me, that in me,  first, Jesus Christ might display the whole long-suffering, for a delineation of those about to believe on him to life eternal.
17 Now to the King of the ages,  incorruptible, invisible, only God, honour and glory to the ages of ages. Amen.
18 This charge,  child Timotheus, I commit to thee, according to the prophecies as to thee preceding, in order that thou mightest war by them the good warfare,
19 maintaining faith and a good conscience; which  some, having put away, have made shipwreck as to faith;
20 of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan, that they may be taught by discipline not to blaspheme.