1 And from there he set out and came to the region of Judea and the other side of the Jordan, and again crowds came together to him. And again, as he was accustomed to do, he began to teach them. 
2 And they asked him if it was permitted for a man to divorce his wife, in order to test him. 
3 And he answered and said to them, "What did Moses command you?" 
4 So they said, "Moses permitted a man to write a certificate of divorce and to send her away." 
5 But Jesus said to them, "He wrote this commandment for you because of your hardness of heart. 
6 But from the beginning of creation 'he made them male and female. 
7 Because of this a man will leave his father and mother and will be joined to his wife, 
8 and the two will become one flesh,' so that they are no longer two but one flesh. 
9 Therefore what God has joined together, man must not separate."
10 And in the house again the disciples began to ask him about this. 
11 And he said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. 
12 And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery."
13 And they were bringing young children to him so that he could touch them, but the disciples rebuked them. 
14 But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant, and said to them, "Let the young children come to me. Do not forbid them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God. 
15 Truly I say to you, whoever does not welcome the kingdom of God like a young child will never enter into it." 
16 And after taking them into his arms, he blessed them, placing his hands on them.
17 And as he was setting out on his way, one individual ran up and knelt down before him and asked him, "Good Teacher, what must I do so that I will inherit eternal life?" 
18 So Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. 
19 You know the commandments: 'Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal, do not give false testimony, do not defraud, honor your father and mother.'" 
20 And he said to him, "Teacher, all these I have observed from my youth." 
21 And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, "You lack one thing: Go, sell all that you have, and give the proceeds to the poor—and you will have treasure in heaven—and come, follow me." 
22 But he looked gloomy at the statement and went away sorrowful, because he had many possessions.
23 And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, "How difficult it is for those who possess wealth to enter into the kingdom of God!" 
24 And the disciples were astounded at his words. But Jesus answered and said to them again, "Children, how difficult it is to enter into the kingdom of God! 
25 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter into the kingdom of God." 
26 And they were very astounded, saying to one another, "And who can be saved?" 
27 Jesus looked at them and said, "With human beings it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God." 
28 Peter began to say to him, "Behold, we have left everything and followed you." 
29 Jesus said, "Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or fields on account of me and on account of the gospel 
30 who will not receive a hundred times as much now in this time—houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and fields, together with persecutions—and in the age to come, eternal life. 
31 But many who are first will be last, and the last first."
32 Now they were on the road going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going on ahead of them. And they were astounded, but those who were following him were afraid. And taking aside the twelve again, he began to tell them the things that were about to happen to him: 
33 "Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be handed over to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and will hand him over to the Gentiles. 
34 And they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him, and after three days he will rise."
35 And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said to him, "Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask you." 
36 And he said to them, "What do you want that I do for you?" 
37 So they said to him, "Grant to us that we may sit one at your right hand and one at your left in your glory." 
38 But Jesus said to them, "You do not know what you are asking! Are you able to drink the cup that I drink, or to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?" 
39 And they said to him, "We are able." So Jesus said to them, "You will drink the cup that I drink, and you will be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with, 
40 but to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, but is for those for whom it has been prepared." 
41 And when they heard this, the ten began to be indignant about James and John. 
42 And Jesus called them to himself and said to them, "You know that those who are considered to rule over the Gentiles lord it over them, and their people in high positions exercise authority over them. 
43 But it is not like this among you! But whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, 
44 and whoever wants to be most prominent among you must be the slave of all. 
45 For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."
46 And they came to Jericho. And as he was setting out from Jericho along with his disciples and a large crowd, a blind beggar, Bartimaeus the son of Timaeus, was sitting beside the road. 
47 And when he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out and say, "Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!" 
48 And many people warned him that he should be quiet. But he was crying out even more loudly, "Son of David, have mercy on me!" 
49 And Jesus stopped and said, "Call him." And they called the blind man and said to him, "Have courage! Get up! He is calling you." 
50 And he threw off his cloak, jumped up, and came to Jesus. 
51 And Jesus answered him and said, "What do you want me to do for you?" And the blind man said to him, "Rabboni, that I may regain my sight." 
52 And Jesus said to him, "Go, your faith has healed you." And immediately he regained his sight and began to follow him on the road.