1 And he went out from there and came to his hometown, and his disciples followed him. 
2 And when the Sabbath came, he began to teach in the synagogue, and many who heard him were amazed, saying, "Where did this man get these things? And what is this wisdom that has been granted to this man, and the miracles such as these performed through his hands? 
3 Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary and brother of James and Joses and Judas and Simon? And are not his sisters here with us?" And they were offended by him. 
4 And Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown, and among his relatives, and in his own household." 
5 And he was not able to do any miracle in that place except to lay his hands on a few sick people and heal them. 
6 And he was astonished because of their unbelief. And he was going around among the villages teaching. 
7 And he summoned the twelve and began to send them out two by two, and gave them authority over the unclean spirits. 
8 And he commanded them that they take along nothing for the journey except only a staff—no bread, no traveler's bag, no money in their belts—
9 but to put on sandals and not to wear two tunics. 
10 And he said to them, "Whenever you enter into a house, stay there until you depart from there. 
11 And whatever place does not welcome you or listen to you, as you go out from there, shake off the dust that is on your feet for a testimony against them." 
12 And they went out and proclaimed that people should repent. 
13 And they were expelling many demons and anointing many sick people with olive oil and healing them.
14 And King Herod heard it, because his name had become known. And they were saying, "John, the one who baptizes, has been raised from the dead, and because of this these miraculous powers are at work in him." 
15 But others were saying, "He is Elijah," and others were saying, "He is a prophet like one of the prophets." 
16 But when Herod heard it, he said, "John whom I beheaded—this one has been raised!" 
17 For Herod himself had sent and arrested John and bound him in prison because of Herodias, the wife of Philip his brother, because he had married her. 
18 For John had been saying to Herod, "It is not permitted for you to have your brother's wife." 
19 So Herodias held a grudge against him and was wanting to kill him, and was not able to do so. 
20 For Herod was afraid of John, because he knew him to be a righteous and holy man and protected him. And when he listened to him, he was greatly perplexed, and yet he listened to him gladly. 
21 And a suitable day came when Herod, on his birthday, gave a banquet for his courtiers and military tribunes and the most prominent men of Galilee. 
22 And when the daughter of Herodias herself came in and danced and pleased Herod and his dinner guests, the king said to the girl, "Ask me for whatever you want, and I will give it to you." 
23 And he swore to her, "Anything whatever you ask me for I will give you, up to half my kingdom!" 
24 And she went out and said to her mother, "What should I ask for?" And she said, "The head of John the baptizer." 
25 And she came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, saying, "I want you to give me the head of John the Baptist on a platter immediately." 
26 And although he was deeply grieved, the king, because of his oaths and dinner guests, did not want to refuse her. 
27 And immediately the king sent an executioner and ordered him to bring his head. And he went and beheaded him in the prison. 
28 And he brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother. 
29 And when his disciples heard this, they came and took away his corpse and placed it in a tomb.
30 And the apostles regathered to Jesus and reported to him everything that they had done and that they had taught. 
31 And he said to them, "You yourselves come privately to an isolated place and rest for a short time." For those who were coming and going were many, and they did not even have time to eat. 
32 And they went away in the boat to an isolated place by themselves. 
33 And many people saw them leaving and recognized them, and ran there together by land from all the towns, and arrived ahead of them. 
34 And getting out of the boat he saw the large crowd and had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd, and he began to teach them many things. 
35 And the hour had already become late when his disciples came up to him, saying, "The place is desolate and the hour is already late. 
36 Send them away so that they can go into the surrounding farms and villages and purchase something to eat for themselves." 
37 But he answered and said to them, "You give them something to eat." And they said to him, "Should we go and purchase bread for two hundred denarii and give it to them to eat?" 
38 And he said to them, "How many loaves do you have? Go look!" And when they found out, they said, "Five, and two fish." 
39 And he ordered them all to recline in groups on the green grass. 
40 And they reclined in groups, by hundreds and by fifties. 
41 And taking the five loaves and the two fish and looking up to heaven, he gave thanks and broke the loaves and gave them to his disciples so that they could set them before them. And he distributed the two fish to them all. 
42 And they all ate and were satisfied. 
43 And they picked up the broken pieces, twelve baskets full, and of the fish. 
44 And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
45 And immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go on ahead to the other side, to Bethsaida, while he himself dismissed the crowd. 
46 And after he had said farewell to them, he went away to the mountain to pray. 
47 And when evening came, the boat was in the middle of the sea and he was alone on the land. 
48 And he saw them being beaten in their rowing because the wind was against them. Around the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea, and he was wanting to pass by them. 
49 But when they saw him walking on the sea, they thought that it was a ghost, and they cried out. 
50 For they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke with them and said to them, "Have courage, I am he! Do not be afraid!" 
51 And he went up with them into the boat, and the wind abated. And they were extraordinarily astounded within themselves, 
52 because they did not understand concerning the loaves, but their hearts were hardened.
53 And after they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret and anchored there. 
54 And as they were getting out of the boat, people recognized him immediately. 
55 They ran about through that whole region and began to carry around those who were sick on stretchers, wherever they heard that he was. 
56 And wherever he would go, into villages or into towns or to farms, they would put those who were sick in the marketplaces and would implore him that if they could touch even the edge of his cloak. And all those who touched it were healed.