1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 
2 Just as it is written in the prophet Isaiah, "Behold, I am sending my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way,
3 the voice of one shouting in the wilderness, 'Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight his paths!'"
4 John was there baptizing in the wilderness, proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. 
5 And all the Judean region and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem went out to him and were being baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins. 
6 And John was dressed in camel's hair and a belt made of leather around his waist, and he ate locusts and wild honey. 
7 And he was preaching, saying, "One who is more powerful than I is coming after me, of whom I am not worthy to bend down and untie the strap of his sandals. 
8 I baptized you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit."
9 And it happened that in those days Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized in the Jordan by John. 
10 And immediately as he was coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens being split apart and the Spirit descending like a dove on him. 
11 And a voice came from heaven, "You are my beloved Son; with you I am well pleased."
12 And immediately the Spirit drove him out into the wilderness. 
13 And he was in the wilderness forty days being tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals, and the angels were ministering to him.
14 And after John had been taken into custody, Jesus went into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God 
15 and saying, "The time is fulfilled and the kingdom of God has come near. Repent and believe in the gospel!"
16 And as he was passing by along the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew, Simon's brother, casting a net into the sea (for they were fishermen). 
17 And Jesus said to them, "Follow me and I will make you become fishers of people." 
18 And immediately they left their nets and followed him. 
19 And going on a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebedee and his brother John, and they were in the boat mending the nets. 
20 And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired men and went away after him. 
21 And they went into Capernaum and immediately on the Sabbath he began to teach in the synagogue.
22 And they were amazed at his teaching, because he was teaching them like one who had authority, and not like the scribes. 
23 And so then there was a man in their synagogue with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, 
24 saying, "Leave us alone, Jesus the Nazarene! Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are—the Holy One of God!" 
25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent, and come out of him!" 
26 And after convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, the unclean spirit came out of him. 
27 And they were all amazed, so that they began to discuss with one another, saying, "What is this? A new teaching with authority! He even commands the unclean spirits and they obey him." 
28 And the report about him then went out everywhere in the whole surrounding region of Galilee.
29 And so then he departed from the synagogue and came into the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. 
30 Now Simon's mother-in-law was lying down, suffering with a fever, and at once they told him about her. 
31 And he came and raised her up by taking hold of her hand, and the fever left her, and she began to serve them.
32 Now when it was evening, when the sun had set, they began bringing to him all those who were sick and those who were demon-possessed. 
33 And the whole town was gathered together at the door. 
34 And he healed many who were sick with various diseases and expelled many demons. And he did not permit the demons to speak, because they knew him.
35 And getting up early in the morning while it was very dark, he departed and went to a deserted place, and there he was praying. 
36 And Simon and those who were with him searched diligently for him. 
37 And they found him and said to him, "Everyone is looking for you!" 
38 And he said to them, "Let us go elsewhere, into the neighboring rural towns, so that I can preach there also, because I have come out for this very reason." 
39 And he went into all Galilee preaching in their synagogues and expelling demons.
40 And a leper came to him, entreating him and kneeling down, saying to him, "If you are willing, you are able to make me clean." 
41 And becoming angry, he stretched out his hand and touched him, and said to him, "I am willing; be made clean." 
42 And immediately the leprosy went away from him and he was made clean. 
43 And warning him sternly, he sent him away at once. 
44 And he said to him, "See to it that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest and bring for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them. 
45 But he went out and began to proclaim it freely and to spread abroad the account, so that he was no longer able to enter publicly into a town. But he was staying outside in deserted places, and they were coming to him from all directions.