1 And when the Sabbath was over, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome purchased fragrant spices so that they could go and anoint him. 
2 And very early in the morning on the first day of the week they came to the tomb after the sun had risen. 
3 And they were saying to one another, "Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb?" 
4 And when they looked up, they saw that the stone had been rolled away (for it was very large). 
5 And as they were going into the tomb, they saw a young man dressed in a white robe sitting on the right side, and they were alarmed. 
6 But he said to them, "Do not be alarmed. You are looking for Jesus the Nazarene who was crucified. He has been raised, he is not here! See the place where they laid him! 
7 But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going ahead of you to Galilee. You will see him there, just as he told you." 
8 And they went out and fled from the tomb, because trembling and amazement had seized them. And they said nothing to anyone, because they were afraid. [[So they promptly reported all the things they had been commanded to those around Peter. And after these things, Jesus himself also sent out through them from the east even as far as the west the holy and imperishable proclamation of eternal salvation. Amen.]]
[[9 Now early on the first day of the week, after he rose, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had expelled seven demons. 
10 She went out and announced it to those who were with him while they were mourning and weeping. 
11 And those, when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, refused to believe it. 
12 And after these things, he appeared in a different form to two of them as they were walking, while they were going out into the countryside. 
13 And these went and reported it to the others, and they did not believe them. 
14 And later, while they were reclining at table, he appeared to the eleven. And he reprimanded their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen him after he had been raised. 
15 And he said to them, "Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation. 
16 The one who believes and is baptized will be saved, but the one who refuses to believe will be condemned. 
17 And these signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will expel demons, they will speak in new tongues, 
18 they will pick up snakes. And if they drink any deadly poison it will never hurt them; they will lay hands on the sick and they will get well."
19 Then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. 
20 And they went out and proclaimed everywhere, while the Lord was working together with them and confirming the message through the accompanying signs.]]