1 Righteous art thou, Jehovah, when I plead with thee; yet will I speak with thee of  judgments. Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper?  are all they at ease that deal very treacherously?
2 Thou hast planted them, they also have taken root: they advance, yea, they bring forth fruit: thou art near in their mouth, but far from their reins.
3 But thou, Jehovah, knowest me; thou hast seen me, and proved my heart toward thee. Drag them out like sheep for the slaughter, and set them apart for the day of slaughter.
4 How long shall the land mourn, and the herbs of all the fields wither? Because of the wickedness of them that dwell therein, the beasts and the birds perish; for they say, He will not see our end.
5 If thou hast run with footmen, and they have wearied thee, how wilt thou then contend with horses? And if in a land of peace thou thinkest thyself in security, how wilt thou then do in the swelling of the Jordan?
6 For even thy brethren, and the house of thy father, even they have dealt treacherously with thee, even they have cried aloud after thee. Believe them not, though they speak good  unto thee.
7 I have forsaken my house, I have cast off my heritage, I have given the beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies.
8 My heritage is become unto me as a lion in the forest; it hath raised its voice against me: therefore have I hated it.
9 My heritage is unto me  a speckled bird of prey; the birds of prey round about are against her. Go, assemble all the beasts of the field, bring them to devour.
10 Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden my portion under foot, they have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness:
11 they have made it a desolation; desolate, it mourneth unto me: the whole land is made desolate, for no man layeth it to heart.
12 Spoilers are come upon all heights in the wilderness; for the sword of Jehovah devoureth from one end of the land even to the  end of the land: no flesh hath peace.
13 They have sown wheat, and they reap thorns; they have put themselves to pain,  do not profit. Be ye therefore ashamed of your revenues, because of the fierce anger of Jehovah.
14 Thus saith Jehovah against all mine evil neighbours, that touch the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit: Behold, I will pluck them up out of their land, and pluck out the house of Judah from among them.
15 And it shall come to pass, after I have plucked them up, I will return, and have compassion on them, and will bring them back, each one to his inheritance, and each one to his land.
16 And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear by my name,  Jehovah liveth—even as they taught my people to swear by Baal—they shall be built up in the midst of my people.
17 And if they will not obey, I will utterly pluck up and destroy that nation, saith Jehovah.