1 The word of the Lord came to me again, saying,
2 Son of man, say to the ruler of Tyre, This is what the Lord has said: Because your heart has been lifted up, and you have said, I am a god, I am seated on the seat of God in the heart of the seas; but you are man and not God, though you have made your heart as the heart of God:
3 See, you are wiser than Daniel; there is no secret which is deeper than your knowledge:
4 By your wisdom and deep knowledge you have got power for yourself, and put silver and gold in your store-houses:
5 By your great wisdom and by your trade your power is increased, and your heart is lifted up because of your power:
6 For this cause the Lord has said: Because you have made your heart as the heart of God,
7 See, I am sending against you strange men, feared among the nations: they will let loose their swords against your bright wisdom, they will make your glory a common thing.
8 They will send you down to the underworld, and your death will be the death of those who are put to the sword in the heart of the seas.
9 Will you say, in the face of those who are taking your life, I am God? but you are man and not God in the hands of those who are wounding you.
10 Your death will be the death of those who are without circumcision, by the hands of men from strange lands: for I have said it, says the Lord.
11 Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying,
12 Son of man, make a song of grief for the king of Tyre, and say to him, This is what the Lord has said: You are all-wise and completely beautiful;
13 You were in Eden, the garden of God; every stone of great price was your clothing, the sardius, the topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the emerald and the carbuncle: your store-houses were full of gold, and things of great price were in you; in the day when you were made they were got ready.
14 I gave you your place with the winged one; I put you on the mountain of God; you went up and down among the stones of fire.
15 There has been no evil in your ways from the day when you were made, till sin was seen in you.
16 Through all your trading you have become full of violent ways, and have done evil: so I sent you out shamed from the mountain of God; the winged one put an end to you from among the stones of fire.
17 Your heart was lifted up because you were beautiful, you made your wisdom evil through your sin: I have sent you down, even to the earth; I have made you low before kings, so that they may see you.
18 By all your sin, even by your evil trading, you have made your holy places unclean; so I will make a fire come out from you, it will make a meal of you, and I will make you as dust on the earth before the eyes of all who see you.
19 All who have knowledge of you among the peoples will be overcome with wonder at you: you have become a thing of fear, and you will never be seen again.
20 And the word of the Lord came to me, saying,
21 Son of man, let your face be turned to Zidon, and be a prophet against it, and say,
22 These are the words of the Lord: See, I am against you, O Zidon; and I will get glory for myself in you: and they will be certain that I am the Lord, when I send my punishments on her, and I will be seen to be holy in her.
23 And I will send on her disease and blood in her streets; and the wounded will be falling in the middle of her, and the sword will be against her on every side; and they will be certain that I am the Lord.
24 And there will no longer be a plant with sharp points wounding the children of Israel, or a thorn troubling them among any who are round about them, who put shame on them; and they will be certain that I am the Lord.
25 This is what the Lord has said: When I have got together the children of Israel from the peoples among whom they are wandering, and have been made holy among them before the eyes of the nations, then they will have rest in the land which is theirs, which I gave to my servant Jacob
26 And they will be safe there, building houses and planting vine-gardens and living without fear; when I have sent my punishments on all those who put shame on them round about them; and they will be certain that I am the Lord their God.
