1 A wise son  his father's instruction; but a scorner heareth not rebuke.
2 A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth; but the soul of the treacherous, violence.
3 He that guardeth his mouth keepeth his soul; destruction shall be to him that openeth wide his lips.
4 A sluggard's soul desireth and hath nothing; but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
5 A righteous  hateth lying; but the wicked maketh himself odious and cometh to shame.
6 Righteousness preserveth him that is perfect in the way; but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
7 There is that feigneth himself rich, and hath nothing; there is that maketh himself poor, and hath great wealth.
8 The ransom of a man's life is his riches; but the indigent heareth not rebuke.
9 The light of the righteous rejoiceth; but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
10 By pride there only cometh contention; but with the well-advised is wisdom.
11 Wealth  by vanity diminisheth; but he that gathereth by manual-labour shall increase .
12 Hope deferred maketh the heart sick; but the desire  cometh to pass is a tree of life.
13 Whoso despiseth the word shall be held by it; but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
14 The teaching of the wise  is a fountain of life, to turn away from the snares of death.
15 Good understanding procureth favour; but the way of the treacherous is hard.
16 Every prudent  acteth with knowledge; but the foolish layeth open  folly.
17 A wicked messenger falleth into evil; but a faithful ambassador is health.
18 Poverty and shame shall be  him that refuseth instruction; but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.
19 The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul; but it is abomination to the foolish to depart from evil.
20 He that walketh with wise  becometh wise; but a companion of the foolish will be depraved.
21 Evil pursueth sinners; but to the righteous good shall be repaid.
22 A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children; but the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the righteous .
23 Much food is in the tillage of the poor; but there is that is lost for want of judgment.
24 He that spareth his rod hateth his son; but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.
25 The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul; but the belly of the wicked shall want.