1 Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding give forth her voice?
2 On the top of high places by the way, at the cross-paths she taketh her stand.
3 Beside the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors, she crieth aloud.
4 Unto you, men, I call, and my voice is to the sons of man:
5 O ye simple, understand prudence; and ye foolish, understand sense.
6 Hear, for I will speak excellent things, and the opening of my lips shall be right things.
7 For my palate shall meditate truth, and wickedness is an abomination to my lips.
8 All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing tortuous or perverse in them.
9 They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge.
10 Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold:
11 for wisdom is better than rubies, and all the things that may be desired are not equal to it.
12 I wisdom dwell  prudence, and find the knowledge [which cometh] of reflection.
13 The fear of Jehovah is to hate evil; pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth do I hate.
14 Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am intelligence; I have strength.
15 By me kings reign, and rulers make just decrees;
16 by me princes rule, and nobles, all the judges of the earth.
17 I love those that love me; and they that seek me early shall find me.
18 Riches and honour are with me; durable wealth and righteousness.
19 My fruit is better than fine gold, yea, than pure gold; and my revenue than choice silver.
20 I walk in the path of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment:
21 that I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasuries.
22 Jehovah possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old.
23 I was set up from eternity, from the beginning, before the earth was.
24 When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there were no fountains abounding with water.
25 Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth;
26 while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the beginning of the dust of the world.
27 When he prepared the heavens I was there; when he ordained the circle upon the face of the deep;
28 when he established the skies above, when the fountains of the deep became strong;
29 when he imposed on the sea his decree that the waters should not pass his commandment, when he appointed the foundations of the earth:
30 then I was by him  nursling, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him;
31 rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth, and my delights  with the sons of men.
32 And now, sons, hearken unto me, and blessed are they that keep my ways:
33 hear instruction and be wise, and refuse it not.
34 Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.
35 For whoso findeth me findeth life, and obtaineth favour of Jehovah;
36 but he that sinneth against me doeth violence to his own soul: all they that hate me love death.