1 Better is a poor  that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool.
2 Also that a person be without knowledge is not good; and he that hasteth with his feet maketh false steps.
3 The folly of man distorteth his way, and his heart is irritated against Jehovah.
4 Wealth addeth many friends; but the poor is separated from his friend.
5 A false witness shall not be held innocent, and he that uttereth lies shall not escape.
6 Many court the favour of a noble; and every one is friend to a man that giveth.
7 All the brethren of a poor  hate him; how much more do his friends go far from him: he pursueth  with words,—they are not [to be found].
8 He that getteth sense loveth his own soul; he that keepeth understanding shall find good.
9 A false witness shall not be held innocent, and he that uttereth lies shall perish.
10 Good living beseemeth not a fool; how much less for a servant to have rule over princes.
11 The discretion of a man maketh him slow to anger, and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.
12 The king's displeasure is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass.
13 A foolish son is the calamity of his father; and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.
14 House and wealth are an inheritance from fathers; but a prudent wife is from Jehovah.
15 Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep, and the idle soul shall suffer hunger.
16 He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his soul; he that is careless of his ways shall die.
17 He that is gracious to the poor lendeth unto Jehovah; and what he hath bestowed will he repay unto him.
18 Chasten thy son, seeing there is hope; but set not thy soul upon killing him.
19 A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment; for if thou deliver , yet thou must do it again.
20 Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end.
21 Many are the thoughts in a man's heart, but the counsel of Jehovah, that doth stand.
22 The charm of a man is his kindness; and a poor  is better than a liar.
23 The fear of Jehovah  to life, and he [that hath it] shall rest satisfied without being visited with evil.
24 A sluggard burieth his hand in the dish, and will not even bring it to his mouth again.
25 Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware; reprove the intelligent, and he will understand knowledge.
26 He that ruineth  father and chaseth away  mother is a son that causeth shame and bringeth reproach.
27 Cease, my son, to hear the instruction which causeth to stray from the words of knowledge.
28 A witness of Belial scorneth judgment, and the mouth of the wicked swalloweth down iniquity.
29 Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of the foolish.