1 My son, forget not my teaching, and let thy heart observe my commandments;
2 for length of days, and years of life, and peace shall they add to thee.
3 Let not loving-kindness and truth forsake thee; bind them about thy neck, write them upon the tablet of thy heart:
4 and thou shalt find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man.
5 Confide in Jehovah with all thy heart, and lean not unto thine own intelligence;
6 in all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will make plain thy paths.
7 Be not wise in thine own eyes; fear Jehovah, and depart from evil:
8 it shall be health for thy navel, and moisture for thy bones.
9 Honour Jehovah with thy substance, and with the first-fruits of all thine increase;
10 so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy vats shall overflow with new wine.
11 My son, despise not the instruction of Jehovah, neither be weary of his chastisement;
12 for whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.
13 Blessed is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.
14 For the gain thereof is better than the gain of silver, and her revenue than fine gold.
15 She is more precious than rubies; and all the things thou canst desire are not equal unto her.
16 Length of days is in her right hand; in her left hand riches and honour.
17 Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
18 She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her; and happy is he that retaineth her.
19 Jehovah by wisdom founded the earth; by understanding he established the heavens.
20 By his knowledge the deeps were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew.
21 My son, let them not depart from thine eyes; keep sound wisdom and discretion:
22 so shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace unto thy neck.
23 Then shalt thou walk in thy way securely, and thy foot shall not stumble;
24 when thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid, but thou shalt lie down and thy sleep shall be sweet.
25 Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the destruction of the wicked, when it cometh;
26 for Jehovah shall be thy confidence, and he will keep thy foot from being taken.
27 Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thy hand to do it.
28 Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to-morrow I will give, when thou hast it by thee.
29 Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee.
30 Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm.
31 Envy not the man of violence, and choose none of his ways.
32 For the perverse is an abomination to Jehovah; but his secret is with the upright.
33 The curse of Jehovah is in the house of the wicked; but he blesseth the habitation of the righteous.
34 He indeed scorneth the scorners; but he giveth grace unto the lowly.
35 The wise shall inherit glory; but shame shall be the promotion of the foolish.