1 The Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father; but a foolish son is the grief of his mother.
2 Treasures of wickedness profit nothing; but righteousness delivereth from death.
3 Jehovah suffereth not the soul of the righteous  to famish; but he repelleth the craving of the wicked.
4 He cometh to want that dealeth with a slack hand; but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.
5 He that gathereth in summer is a wise son; he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame.
6 Blessings are upon the head of a righteous ; but the mouth of the wicked covereth violence.
7 The memory of the righteous  shall be blessed; but the name of the wicked shall rot.
8 The wise in heart receiveth commandments; but a prating fool shall fall.
9 He that walketh in integrity walketh securely; but he that perverteth his ways shall be known.
10 He that winketh with the eye causeth grief, and a prating fool shall fall.
11 The mouth of a righteous  is a fountain of life; but the mouth of the wicked covereth violence.
12 Hatred stirreth up strifes; but love covereth all transgressions.
13 In the lips of an intelligent  wisdom is found; but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.
14 The wise lay up knowledge; but the mouth of the fool is near destruction.
15 The rich man's wealth is his strong city; the destruction of the poor is their poverty.
16 The labour of a righteous   to life; the revenue of a wicked , to sin.
17 Keeping instruction is the path to life; but he that forsaketh reproof goeth astray.
18 He that covereth hatred hath lying lips, and he that sendeth forth a slander is a fool.
19 In the multitude of words there wanteth not transgression; but he that restraineth his lips doeth wisely.
20 The tongue of the righteous  is  choice silver; the heart of the wicked is little worth.
21 The lips of a righteous  feed many; but fools die for want of understanding.
22 The blessing of Jehovah, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow to it.
23 It is as sport to a foolish  to do wickedness; but a man of understanding hath wisdom.
24 The fear of a wicked , it shall come upon him; but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.
25 As a whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no ; but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.
26 As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him.
27 The fear of Jehovah prolongeth days; but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
28 The hope of the righteous is joy; but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.
29 The way of Jehovah is strength to the perfect , but destruction to the workers of iniquity.
30 The righteous  shall never be moved; but the wicked shall not inhabit the land.
31 The mouth of a righteous  putteth forth wisdom; but the froward tongue shall be cut out.
32 The lips of a righteous  know what is acceptable; but the mouth of the wicked is frowardness.