1 These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah transcribed.
2 It is the glory of God to conceal a thing; but the glory of kings is to search out a thing.
3 The heavens for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable.
4 Take away the dross from the silver, and there cometh forth a vessel for the refiner:
5 take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness.
6 Put not thyself forward in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of the great;
7 for better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither, than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes see.
8 Go not forth hastily to strive, lest [thou know not] what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.
9 Debate thy cause with thy neighbour, but reveal not the secret of another;
10 lest he that heareth  disgrace thee, and thine evil report turn not away.
11  apples of gold in pictures of silver, is a word spoken in season.
12 An ear-ring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, is a wise reprover upon an attentive ear.
13 As the cold of snow in the time of harvest,  is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters.
14 Clouds and wind without rain,  is a man that boasteth himself of a false gift.
15 By long forbearing is a ruler persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone.
16 Hast thou found honey? Eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be surfeited therewith, and vomit it.
17 Let thy foot be seldom in thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee and hate thee.
18 A maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow, is a man that beareth false witness against his neighbour.
19 A broken tooth, and a tottering foot, is confidence in an unfaithful  in the day of trouble.
20  he that taketh off a garment in cold weather, [and as] vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to a sad heart.
21 If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink:
22 for thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and Jehovah shall reward thee.
23 The north wind bringeth forth rain, and the angry countenance a backbiting tongue.
24 It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a contentious woman, and a house in common.
25  cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
26 A troubled fountain, and a defiled well, is a righteous  that giveth way before the wicked.
27 It is not good to eat much honey; and to search into weighty matters is  a weight.
28 He that hath no rule over his own spirit is  a city broken down, without walls.