1 He that separateth himself seeketh  pleasure, he is vehement against all sound wisdom.
2 A fool hath no delight in understanding, but only that his heart may reveal itself.
3 When the wicked cometh, there cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach.
4 The words of a man's mouth are deep waters,  the fountain of wisdom is a gushing brook.
5 It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to wrong the righteous in judgment.
6 A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for stripes.
7 A fool's mouth is destruction to him, and his lips are a snare to his soul.
8 The words of a talebearer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.
9 He also who is indolent in his work is brother of the destroyer.
10 The name of Jehovah is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.
11 The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as a high wall in his own imagination.
12 Before destruction the heart of man is haughty; and before honour  humility.
13 He that giveth answer before he heareth, it is folly and shame unto him.
14 The spirit of a man sustaineth his infirmity; but a broken spirit who can bear?
15 The heart of an intelligent  getteth knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.
16 A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.
17 He that is first in his own cause  just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him.
18 The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty.
19 A brother offended is [harder to be won] than a strong city; and contentions are as the bars of a palace.
20 A man's belly is satisfied with the fruit of his mouth; with the increase of his lips is he satisfied.
21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.
22 Whoso hath found a wife hath found a good thing, and hath obtained favour from Jehovah.
23 He that is poor speaketh with supplications, but the rich answereth roughly.
24 A man of  friends will come to ruin but there is a friend  sticketh closer than a brother.