1 Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than a house full of feasting  strife.
2 A wise servant shall rule over a son that causeth shame, and shall have part in the inheritance among the brethren.
3 The fining-pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold; but Jehovah trieth the hearts.
4 The evil-doer giveth heed to iniquitous lips; the liar giveth ear to a mischievous tongue.
5 Whoso mocketh a poor  reproacheth his Maker; he that is glad at calamity shall not be held innocent.
6 Children's children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers.
7 Excellent speech becometh not a vile ; how much less do lying lips a noble!
8 A gift is a precious stone in the eyes of the possessor: whithersoever it turneth it prospereth.
9 He that covereth transgression seeketh love; but he that bringeth a matter up again separateth very friends.
10 A reproof entereth more deeply into him that hath understanding than a hundred stripes into a fool.
11 An evil  seeketh only rebellion; but a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
12 Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man rather than a fool in his folly.
13 Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.
14 The beginning of contention is  when one letteth out water; therefore leave off strife before it become vehement.
15 He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the righteous, even they both are abomination to Jehovah.
16 To what purpose is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing  hath no sense?
17 The friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
18 A senseless man striketh hands, becoming surety for his neighbour.
19 He loveth transgression that loveth a quarrel; he that maketh high his gate seeketh destruction.
20 He that hath a perverse heart findeth no good; and he that shifteth about with his tongue falleth into evil.
21 He that begetteth a fool [doeth it] to his sorrow, and the father of a vile  hath no joy.
22 A joyful heart promoteth healing; but a broken spirit drieth up the bones.
23 A wicked  taketh a gift out of the bosom, to pervert the paths of judgment.
24 Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth.
25 A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bore him.
26 To punish a righteous  is not good, nor to strike nobles because of  uprightness.
27 He that hath knowledge spareth his words; and a man of understanding is of a cool spirit.
28 Even a fool when he holdeth his peace is reckoned wise,  he that shutteth his lips, intelligent.