1 Whoso loveth discipline loveth knowledge, but he that hateth reproof is brutish.
2 A good  obtaineth favour of Jehovah; but a man of mischievous devices will he condemn.
3 A man shall not be established by wickedness; but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.
4 A woman of worth is a crown to her husband; but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.
5 The thoughts of the righteous are right; the counsels of the wicked are deceit.
6 The words of the wicked are a lying-in-wait for blood; but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.
7 Overthrow the wicked, and they are no ; but the house of the righteous shall stand.
8 A man is commended according to his wisdom; but he that is of a perverted heart shall be despised.
9 Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant, than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.
10 A righteous man is concerned for the life of his beast; but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.
11 He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread; but he that followeth the worthless is void of understanding.
12 The wicked desireth the net of evil ; but the root of the righteous yieldeth .
13 In the transgression of the lips is an evil snare; but a righteous  shall go forth out of trouble.
14 A man is satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth; and the recompense of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.
15 The way of a fool is right in his own eyes; but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsel.
16 The vexation of the fool is presently known; but a prudent  covereth shame.
17 He that uttereth truth sheweth forth righteousness; but a false witness deceit.
18 There is that babbleth like the piercings of a sword; but the tongue of the wise is health.
19 The lip of truth shall be established for ever; but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
20 Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil; but to the counsellors of peace is joy.
21 There shall no evil happen to a righteous ; but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
22 Lying lips are an abomination to Jehovah; but they that deal truly are his delight.
23 A prudent man concealeth knowledge; but the heart of the foolish proclaimeth folly.
24 The hand of the diligent shall bear rule; but the slothful  shall be under tribute.
25 Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop; but a good word maketh it glad.
26 The righteous guideth his neighbour; but the way of the wicked misleadeth them.
27 The slothful roasteth not what he took in hunting; but man's precious substance is to the diligent.
28 In the path of righteousness is life, and in the pathway thereof there is no death.