1 A false balance is an abomination to Jehovah; but a just weight is his delight.
2  pride cometh, then cometh shame; but with the lowly is wisdom.
3 The integrity of the upright guideth them; but the crookedness of the unfaithful destroyeth them.
4 Wealth profiteth not in the day of wrath; but righteousness delivereth from death.
5 The righteousness of the perfect maketh plain his way; but the wicked falleth by his own wickedness.
6 The righteousness of the upright delivereth them; but the treacherous are taken in their own craving.
7 When a wicked man dieth,  expectation shall perish; and the hope of evil  perisheth.
8 The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.
9 With his mouth a hypocrite destroyeth his neighbour; but through knowledge are the righteous delivered.
10 When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth; and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.
11 By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted; but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.
12 He that despiseth his neighbour is void of heart; but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.
13 He that goeth about talebearing revealeth secrets; but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.
14 Where no advice is, the people fall; but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
15 It goeth ill with him that is surety for another; but he that hateth suretyship is secure.
16 A gracious woman retaineth honour; and the violent retain riches.
17 The merciful man doeth good to his own soul; but the cruel troubleth his own flesh.
18 The wicked worketh a deceitful work; but he that soweth righteousness hath a sure reward.
19 As righteousness  to life, so he that pursueth evil [doeth it] to his own death.
20 The perverse in heart are abomination to Jehovah; but they that are perfect in  way are his delight.
21 Hand for hand! an evil  shall not be held innocent; but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.
22 A fair woman who is without discretion, is  a gold ring in a swine's snout.
23 The desire of the righteous is only good; the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
24 There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is right, but [it tendeth] only to want.
25 The liberal soul shall be made fat, and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.
26 He that withholdeth corn, the people curse him; but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.
27 He that is earnest after good seeketh favour; but he that searcheth for mischief, it shall come upon him.
28 He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall flourish as a leaf.
29 He that troubleth his own house shall inherit wind; and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.
30 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and the wise winneth souls.
31 Behold, the righteous shall be requited on the earth: how much more the wicked and the sinner.