1 Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime.
2 And I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerijoth; and Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting,  with the sound of the trumpet.
3 And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay all the princes thereof with him, saith Jehovah.
4 Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because they have despised the law of Jehovah, and have not kept his statutes; and their lies have caused them to err, after which their fathers walked.
5 And I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.
6 Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because they have sold the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes;
7 panting after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turning aside the way of the meek; and a man and his father will go in unto the  maid, to profane my holy name.
8 And they lay  down by every altar upon clothes taken in pledge, and they drink  the house of their God the wine of the condemned.
9 But I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was as the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; but I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.
10 And I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.
11 And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazarites. Is it not even thus, ye children of Israel? saith Jehovah.
12 And ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink; and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not.
13 Behold, I will press upon you, as a cart presseth that is full of sheaves.
14 And flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliver his soul.
15 Neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and the swift of foot shall not escape, and he that rideth the horse shall not deliver his soul;
16 and he that is stout-hearted among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, saith Jehovah.