1 "Now at that time, Michael, the great prince, will arise, the protector over the sons of your people, and it will be a time of distress that has not been since your people have been a nation until that time. And at that time your people will escape, everyone who is found written in the scroll. 
2 And many from those sleeping in the dusty ground will awake, some to everlasting life and some to disgrace and everlasting contempt. 
3 But the ones having insight will shine like the brightness of the expanse, and the ones providing justice for the many will be like the stars forever and ever. 
4 But you, Daniel, keep the words secret and seal the scroll until the time of the end; many will run back and forth and knowledge will increase."
5 Then I looked, I myself, Daniel, and look, there were two others standing: one on this bank of the stream and one on the other. 
6 Then he said to the man who was clothed in linen who was above the water of the stream, "How long until the end of the wonders?" 
7 And I heard the man who was clothed in linen who was above the water of the stream, and he raised his right hand and his left hand to heaven and he swore by the one who lives forever that an appointed time, appointed times, and half an appointed time would pass when the shattering of the power of the holy people would be completed; then all these things will be accomplished.
8 Now I myself heard, but I did not understand, and I said, "My lord, what will be the outcome of these things?" 
9 And he said, "Go, Daniel, for the words are secret and are sealed up until the time of the end. 
10 Many will be purified and will be cleansed and will be refined, but the wicked will act wickedly and none of the wicked will understand, but those who have insight will understand. 
11 And from the time the regular burnt offering is removed and the abomination that causes desolation is set up there will be one thousand two hundred and ninety days. 
12 Happy is the one who is persevering, and attains to the one thousand three hundred and thirty-five days. 
13 But you, go on to the end and rest, and you will arise for your allotted inheritance at the end of the days."