1 In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: We have a strong city; salvation doth he appoint for walls and bulwarks.
2 Open ye the gates, and the righteous nation which keepeth faithfulness shall enter in.
3 Thou wilt keep in perfect peace the mind stayed [on thee], for he confideth in thee.
4 Confide ye in Jehovah for ever; for in Jah, Jehovah, is the rock of ages.
5 For he bringeth down them that dwell on high; the lofty city, he layeth it low, he layeth it low to the ground, he bringeth it even to the dust.
6 The foot shall tread it down,—the feet of the afflicted, the steps of the poor.
7 The way of the just is uprightness: thou, the Upright, dost make the path of the just even.
8 Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O Jehovah, have we waited for thee; the desire of  soul is to thy name, and to thy memorial.
9 With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me I seek thee early: for when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
10 If favour be shewn to the wicked, he doth not learn righteousness: in the land of uprightness he dealeth unjustly, and beholdeth not the majesty of Jehovah.
11 Jehovah, thy hand is lifted up, but they do not see:  they shall see  jealousy  the people, and be ashamed; yea, the fire which is for thine adversaries shall devour them.
12 Jehovah, thou wilt ordain peace for us; for thou also hast wrought all our works for us.
13 Jehovah our God, other lords than thee have had dominion over us; by thee only will we make mention of thy name.
14 [They are] dead, they shall not live; deceased, they shall not rise: for thou hast visited and destroyed them, and made all memory of them to perish.
15 Thou hast increased the nation, Jehovah, thou hast increased the nation: thou art glorified. Thou hadst removed  far  all the ends of the earth.
16 Jehovah, in trouble they sought thee; they poured out  whispered prayer when thy chastening was upon them.
17 As a woman with child, that draweth near her delivery, is in travail,  crieth out in her pangs; so have we been before thee, Jehovah.
18 We have been with child, we have been in travail, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought the deliverance of the land, neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
19 Thy dead shall live, my dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing in triumph, ye that dwell in dust; for thy dew is the dew of the morning, and the earth shall cast forth the dead.
20 Come, my people, enter into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee; hide thyself just for a little moment, until the indignation be past.
21 For behold, Jehovah cometh out of his place to visit the iniquity of the inhabitants of the earth upon them; and the earth shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.