1 Who is this that cometh from Edom, with deep-red garments from Bozrah, this that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the greatness of his strength?—I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save.
2 —Wherefore is redness in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth in the winevat?
3 I have trodden the winepress alone, and of the peoples not a man was with me; and I have trodden them in mine anger, and trampled them in my fury; and their blood is sprinkled upon my garments, and I have stained all mine apparel.
4 For the day of vengeance was in my heart, and the year of my redeemed had come.
5 And I looked, and there was none to help; and I wondered that there was none to uphold: and mine own arm brought salvation unto me; and my fury, it upheld me.
6 And I have trodden down the peoples in mine anger, and made them drunk in my fury; and their blood have I brought down to the earth.
7 I will record the loving-kindnesses of Jehovah, the praises of Jehovah, according to all that Jehovah hath bestowed upon us, and the great goodness toward the house of Israel which he hath bestowed upon them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of his loving-kindnesses.
8 And he said, They are indeed my people, children that will not lie; and he became their Saviour.
9 In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the Angel of his presence saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he bore them and carried them all the days of old.
10 But they rebelled and grieved his holy Spirit: and he turned to be their enemy; himself, he fought against them.
11 But he remembered the days of old, Moses  his people: Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he that put his holy Spirit within him,
12 his glorious arm leading them by the right hand of Moses, dividing the waters before them, to make himself an everlasting name,
13 —who led them through the depths, like a horse in the wilderness,  they stumbled not?
14 As cattle go down into the valley, the Spirit of Jehovah gave them rest; so didst thou lead thy people, to make thyself a glorious name.
15 Look down from the heavens, and behold from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory! Where is thy zeal and thy strength, the sounding of thy bowels and of thy tender mercies? Are they restrained toward me?
16 For thou art our Father, though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not: thou, Jehovah, art our Father; our Redeemer, from everlasting, is thy name.
17 Why, O Jehovah, hast thou made us to err from thy ways, hast hardened our heart from thy fear? Return for thy servants' sake, the tribes of thine inheritance.
18 Thy holy people have possessed  but a little while: our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary.
19 We have become [like those] over whom thou never barest rule, those not called by thy name.