1 Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou wast not spoiled; and that dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! When thou shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; when thou shalt make an end of dealing treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee.
2 Jehovah, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be their arm every morning, yea, our salvation in the time of trouble.
3 At the noise of the tumult the peoples fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations were scattered.
4 And your spoil shall be gathered  the gathering of the caterpillar: as the running of locusts shall they run upon it.
5 Jehovah is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with justice and righteousness;
6 and he shall be the stability of thy times, the riches of salvation, wisdom and knowledge: the fear of Jehovah shall be your treasure.
7 Behold, their valiant ones cry without; the messengers of peace weep bitterly.
8 The highways are desolate, the wayfaring man ceaseth. He hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man.
9 The land mourneth, it languisheth; Lebanon is ashamed, is withered; the Sharon is become as a desert, and Bashan and Carmel are stripped.
10 Now will I arise, saith Jehovah; now will I be exalted, now will I lift up myself.
11 Ye shall conceive dry grass, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath shall devour you  fire.
12 And the peoples shall be  burnings of lime,  thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire.
13 Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and ye that are near, acknowledge my might.
14 The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling hath surprised the hypocrites: Who among us shall dwell with the consuming fire? who among us shall dwell with everlasting flames?
15 —He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from taking hold of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil:
16 he shall dwell on high, the fortresses of the rocks shall be his high retreat; bread shall be given him, his water shall be sure.
17 Thine eyes shall see the King in his beauty; they shall behold the land that is far off.
18 Thy heart shall meditate on terror: Where is the scribe? where is the receiver? where is he that counted the towers?
19 Thou shalt no more see the fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst comprehend, of a stammering tongue that cannot be understood.
20 Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not be removed, the stakes whereof shall never be pulled up, neither shall any of its cords be broken;
21 but there Jehovah is unto us glorious,—a place of rivers, of broad streams: no galley with oars shall go there, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby.
22 For Jehovah is our judge, Jehovah, our lawgiver, Jehovah, our king: he will save us.
23 Thy tacklings are loosed; they strengthen not the socket of their mast, they cannot spread the sail: then is the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame take the prey.
24 And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven  iniquity.