1 And he entered and passed through Jericho.
2 And behold, [there was] a man by name called Zacchaeus, and he was chief tax-gatherer, and he was rich.
3 And he sought to see Jesus who he was: and he could not for the crowd, because he was little in stature.
4 And running on before, he got up into a sycamore that he might see him, for he was going to pass that .
5 And when he came up to the place, Jesus looked up and saw him, and said to him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for to-day I must remain in thy house.
6 And he made haste and came down, and received him with joy.
7 And all murmured when they saw , saying, He has turned in to lodge with a sinful man.
8 But Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I return  fourfold.
9 And Jesus said to him, To-day salvation is come to this house, inasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham;
10 for the Son of man has come to seek and to save that which is lost.
11 But as they were listening to these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem and they thought that the kingdom of God was about to be immediately manifested.
12 He said therefore, A certain high-born man went to a distant country to receive for himself a kingdom and return.
13 And having called his own ten bondmen, he gave to them ten minas, and said to them, Trade while I am coming.
14 But his citizens hated him, and sent an embassy after him, saying, We will not that this  should reign over us.
15 And it came to pass on his arrival back again, having received the kingdom, that he desired these bondmen to whom he gave the money to be called to him, in order that he might know what every one had gained by trading.
16 And the first came up, saying,  Lord, thy mina has produced ten minas.
17 And he said to him, Well , thou good bondman; because thou hast been faithful in that which is least, be thou in authority over ten cities.
18 And the second came, saying,  Lord, thy mina has made five minas.
19 And he said also to this one, And *thou*, be over five cities.
20 And another came, saying,  Lord, lo, [there is] thy mina, which I have kept laid up in a towel.
21 For I feared thee because thou art a harsh man: thou takest up what thou hast not laid down, and thou reapest what thou hast not sowed.
22 He says to him, Out of thy mouth will I judge thee, wicked bondman: thou knewest that *I* am a harsh man, taking up what I have not laid down and reaping what I have not sowed.
23 And why didst thou not give my money to  bank; and *I* should have received it, at my coming, with interest?
24 And he said to those that stood by, Take from him the mina and give  to him who has the ten minas.
25 And they said to him, Lord, he has ten minas.
26 For I say unto you, that to every one that has shall be given; but from him that has not, that even which he has shall be taken from him.
27 Moreover those mine enemies, who would not  me to reign over them, bring them here and slay  before me.
28 And having said these things, he went on before, going up to Jerusalem.
29 And it came to pass as he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany at the mountain called [the mount] of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,
30 saying, Go into the village over against , in which ye will find, on entering it, a colt tied up, on which no  of man ever sat at any time: loose it and lead it .
31 And if any one ask you, Why do ye loose ? thus shall ye say to him, Because the Lord has need of it.
32 And they that were sent, having gone their way, found as he had said to them.
33 And as they were loosing the colt, its masters said to them, Why loose ye the colt?
34 And they said, Because the Lord has need of it.
35 And they led it to Jesus; and having cast their own garments on the colt, they put Jesus on .
36 And as he went, they strewed their clothes in the way.
37 And as he drew near, already at the descent of the mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples began, rejoicing, to praise God with a loud voice for all the works of power which they had seen,
38 saying, Blessed the King that comes in the name of  Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.
39 And some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke thy disciples.
40 And he answering said to them, I say unto you, If these shall be silent, the stones will cry out.
41 And as he drew near, seeing the city, he wept over it,
42 saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, even at least in this thy day, the things that are for thy peace: but now they are hid from thine eyes;
43 for days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall make a palisaded mound about thee, and shall close thee around, and keep thee in on every side,
44 and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children in thee; and shall not leave in thee a stone upon a stone: because thou knewest not the season of thy visitation.
45 And entering into the temple, he began to cast out those that sold and bought in it,
46 saying to them, It is written, My house is a house of prayer, but *ye* have made it a den of robbers.
47 And he was teaching day by day in the temple: and the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him,
48 and did not find what they could do, for all the people hung on him to hear.