1 At that time Jehovah said unto me, Hew for thyself two tables of stone like the first, and come up unto me into the mountain, and make thee an ark of wood;
2 and I will write on the tables the words that were on the first tables which thou didst break, and thou shalt lay them in the ark.
3 And I made an ark of acacia-wood, and hewed two tables of stone like the first, and went up the mountain with the two tables in my hand.
4 And he wrote on the tables, as the first writing, the ten words which Jehovah spoke unto you on the mountain, from the midst of the fire, on the day of the assembly, and Jehovah gave them unto me.
5 And I turned and came down from the mountain, and put the tables in the ark which I had made;—and they are there, as Jehovah commanded me.
6 (And the children of Israel took their journey from Beeroth-Bene-Jaakan to Moserah: there Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son exercised the priesthood in his stead.
7 From thence they journeyed unto Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of water-brooks.)
8 At that time Jehovah separated the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah to do service unto him, and to bless in his name, unto this day.
9 Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brethren; Jehovah is his inheritance, according as Jehovah thy God told him.
10 But I stood upon the mountain according to the former days, forty days and forty nights; and Jehovah listened unto me also at that time: Jehovah would not destroy thee.
11 And Jehovah said unto me, Rise up, take thy journey before the people, that they may enter in and possess the land, which I swore unto their fathers to give unto them.
12 And now, Israel, what doth Jehovah thy God require of thee, but to fear Jehovah thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve Jehovah thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul,
13 to keep the commandments of Jehovah, and his statutes, which I command thee this day, for thy good?
14 Behold, the heaven and the heaven of heavens belong to Jehovah thy God; the earth and all that is therein.
15 Only, Jehovah took pleasure in thy fathers, to love them, and he chose their seed after them,  you, out of all the peoples, as it is this day.
16 Circumcise then the foreskin of your heart, and stiffen your neck no more.
17 For Jehovah your God is the God of gods, and the Lord of lords, the great God, the mighty and the terrible, who regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward;
18 who executeth the judgment of the fatherless and the widow, and loveth the stranger, to give him food and clothing.
19 And ye shall love the stranger; for ye have been strangers in the land of Egypt.
20 Thou shalt fear Jehovah thy God; him thou shalt serve, and unto him shalt thou cleave, and swear by his name.
21 He is thy praise, and he is thy God, who hath done for thee these great and terrible things, which thine eyes have seen.
22 With seventy souls thy fathers went down into Egypt; and now Jehovah thy God hath made thee as the stars of heaven for multitude.