1 Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking along Titus also. 
2 Now I went up there because of a revelation and laid out to them the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles, but in private to the influential people, lest somehow I was running, or had run, in vain. 
3 But not even Titus who was with me, although he was a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised. 
4 Now this was because of the false brothers secretly brought in, who slipped in to spy out our freedom that we have in Christ Jesus, in order that they might enslave us, 
5 to whom not even for an hour did we yield in subjection, in order that the truth of the gospel might remain continually with you. 
6 But from those who were influential (whatever they were, it makes no difference to me, God does not show partiality)—for those who were influential added nothing to me. 
7 But these, when they saw that I had been entrusted with the gospel to the uncircumcision, just as Peter to the circumcision 
8 (for the one who was at work through Peter for his apostleship to the circumcision was at work also through me for the Gentiles), 
9 and when James and Cephas and John—those thought to be pillars—acknowledged the grace given to me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, in order that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcision. 
10 They asked only that we should remember the poor, the very thing I was also eager to do.
11 But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he was condemned. 
12 For before certain people came from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles, but when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, because he was afraid of those who were of the circumcision, 
13 and the rest of the Jews also joined in this hypocrisy with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away with them in their hypocrisy. 
14 But when I saw that they were not being straightforward with the truth of the gospel, I said to Cephas in the presence of them all, "If you, although you are a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you try to compel the Gentiles to live like Jews?"
15 We are Jews by nature and not sinners from among the Gentiles, 
16 but knowing that a person is not justified by the works of the law, if not by faith in Jesus Christ, and we have believed in Christ Jesus so that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law, because by the works of the law no human being will be justified. 
17 But if while seeking to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also have been found to be sinners, then is Christ an agent of sin? May it never be! 
18 For if I build up again these things which I destroyed, I show myself to be a transgressor. 
19 For through the law I died to the law, in order that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ, 
20 and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me, and that life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. 
21 I do not declare invalid the grace of God, for if righteousness is through the law, then Christ died to no purpose.