1 And Boaz hath gone up to the gate, and sitteth there, and lo, the redeemer is passing by of whom Boaz had spoken, and he saith, `Turn aside, sit down here, such a one, such a one;' and he turneth aside and sitteth down.
2 And he taketh ten men of the elders of the city, and saith, `Sit down here;' and they sit down.
3 And he saith to the redeemer, `A portion of the field which  to our brother, to Elimelech, hath Naomi sold, who hath come back from the fields of Moab;
4 and I said, I uncover thine ear, saying, Buy before the inhabitants, and before the elders of my people; if thou dost redeem -- redeem, and if none doth redeem -- declare to me, and I know, for there is none save thee to redeem, and I after thee.' And he saith, I redeem .'
5 And Boaz saith, `In the day of thy buying the field from the hand of Naomi, then from Ruth the Moabitess, wife of the dead, thou hast bought , to raise up the name of the dead over his inheritance.'
6 And the redeemer saith, `I am not able to redeem  for myself, lest I destroy mine inheritance; redeem for thyself -- thou -- my right of redemption, for I am not able to redeem.'
7 And this  formerly in Israel for redemption and for changing, to establish anything: a man hath drawn off his sandal, and given  to his neighbour, and this  the testimony in Israel.
8 And the redeemer saith to Boaz, `Buy  for thyself,' and draweth off his sandal.
9 And Boaz saith to the elders, and  all the people, `Witnesses  ye to-day that I have bought all that  to Elimelech, and all that  to Chilion and Mahlon, from the hand of Naomi;
10 and also Ruth the Moabitess, wife of Mahlon, I have bought to myself for a wife, to raise up the name of the dead over his inheritance; and the name of the dead is not cut off from among his brethren, and from the gate of his place; witnesses ye  to-day.'
11 And all the people who  in the gate say -- also the elders -- `Witnesses! Jehovah make the woman who is coming in unto thy house as Rachel and as Leah, both of whom built the house of Israel; and do thou virtuously in Ephrathah, and proclaim the Name in Beth-Lehem;
12 and let thy house be as the house of Pharez (whom Tamar bare to Judah), of the seed which Jehovah doth give to thee of this young woman.'
13 And Boaz taketh Ruth, and she becometh his wife, and he goeth in unto her, and Jehovah giveth to her conception, and she beareth a son.
14 And the women say unto Naomi, `Blessed  Jehovah who hath not let a redeemer cease to thee to-day, and his name is proclaimed in Israel,
15 and he hath been to thee for a restorer of life, and for a nourisher of thine old age, for thy daughter-in-law who hath loved thee -- who is better to thee than seven sons -- hath borne him.'
16 And Naomi taketh the lad, and layeth him in her bosom, and is to him for a nurse;
17 and the neighbouring women give to him a name, saying, `There hath been a son born to Naomi,' and they call his name Obed; he  father of Jesse, father of David.
18 And these are genealogies of Pharez: Pharez begat Hezron,
19 and Hezron begat Ram, and Ram begat Amminidab,
20 and Amminidab begat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon,
21 and Salmon begat Boaz, and Boaz begat Obed,
22 and Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David.