1 Why are not times treasured up with the Almighty? why do not they that know him see his days?
2 They remove the landmarks; they violently take away the flocks and pasture them;
3 They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow's ox for a pledge;
4 They turn the needy out of the way: the afflicted of the land all hide themselves.
5 Lo,  wild asses in the desert, they go forth to their work, seeking early for the prey: the wilderness  them food for  children.
6 They reap in the field the fodder thereof, and they gather the vintage of the wicked;
7 They pass the night naked without clothing, and have no covering in the cold;
8 They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and for want of a shelter embrace the rock …
9 They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor:
10 These go naked without clothing, and, hungry, they bear the sheaf;
11 They press out oil within their walls, they tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst.
12 Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded crieth out; and +God imputeth not the impiety.
13 There are those that rebel against the light; they know not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof.
14 The murderer riseth with the light, killeth the afflicted and needy, and in the night is as a thief.
15 And the eye of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me; and he putteth a covering on  face.
16 In the dark they dig through houses; by day they shut themselves in; they know not the light:
17 For the morning is to them all  the shadow of death; for they are familiar with the terrors of the shadow of death.
18 He is swift on the face of the waters; their portion is cursed on the earth: he turneth not unto the way of the vineyards.
19 Drought and heat consume snow waters; so doth Sheol those that have sinned.
20 The womb forgetteth him; the worm feedeth sweetly on him: he shall be no more remembered; and unrighteousness is broken as a tree,—
21 He that despoileth the barren that beareth not, and doeth not good to the widow:
22 He draweth also the mighty with his power; he riseth up, and no  is sure of life.
23  setteth him in safety, and he resteth thereon; but his eyes are upon their ways.
24 They are exalted for a little, and are no more; they are laid low; like all  are they gathered, and are cut off as the tops of the ears of corn.
25 If it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my speech nothing worth?