1 But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to set with the dogs of my flock.
2 Yea, whereto  the strength of their hands  me,  in whom vigour hath perished?
3 Withered up through want and hunger, they flee into waste places long since desolate and desert:
4 They gather the salt-wort among the bushes, and the roots of the broom for their food.
5 They are driven forth from among —they cry after them as after a thief—
6 To dwell in gloomy gorges, in caves of the earth and the rocks:
7 They bray among the bushes; under the brambles they are gathered together:
8 Sons of fools, and sons of nameless sires, they are driven out of the land.
9 And now I am their song, yea, I am their byword.
10 They abhor me, they stand aloof from me, yea, they spare not to spit in my face.
11 For he hath loosed my cord and afflicted me; so they cast off the bridle before me.
12 At  right hand rise the young brood; they push away my feet, and raise up against me their pernicious ways;
13 They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, without any to help them;
14 They come in as through a wide breach: amid the confusion they roll themselves onward.
15 Terrors are turned against me; they pursue mine honour as the wind; and my welfare is passed away like a cloud.
16 And now my soul is poured out in me; days of affliction have taken hold upon me.
17 The night pierceth through my bones [and detacheth them] from me, and my gnawing pains take no rest:
18 By their great force they have become my raiment; they bind me about as the collar of my coat.
19 He hath cast me into the mire, and I have become like dust and ashes.
20 I cry unto thee, and thou answerest me not; I stand up, and thou lookest at me.
21 Thou art changed to a cruel one to me; with the strength of thy hand thou pursuest me.
22 Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to be borne away, and dissolvest my substance.
23 For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and into the house of assemblage for all living.
24 Indeed, no prayer  when he stretcheth out  hand: though they cry when he destroyeth.
25 Did not I weep for him whose days were hard? was not my soul grieved for the needy?
26 For I expected good, and there came evil; and I waited for light, but there came darkness.
27 My bowels well up, and rest not; days of affliction have confronted me.
28 I go about blackened, but not by the sun; I stand up, I cry in the congregation.
29 I am become a brother to jackals, and a companion of ostriches.
30 My skin is become black [and falleth] off me, and my bones are parched with heat.
31 My harp also is  to mourning, and my pipe into the voice of weepers.