1 I made a covenant with mine eyes; and how should I fix my regard upon a maid?
2 For what would have been  portion of +God from above, and what the heritage of the Almighty from on high?
3 Is not calamity for the unrighteous? and misfortune for the workers of iniquity?
4 Doth not he see my ways, and number all my steps?
5 If I have walked with falsehood, and my foot hath hasted to deceit,
6 (Let me be weighed in an even balance, and +God will take knowledge of my blamelessness;)
7 If my step have turned out of the way, and my heart followed mine eyes, and if any blot cleaveth to my hands;
8 Let me sow, and another eat; and let mine offspring be rooted out.
9 If my heart have been enticed unto a woman, so that I laid wait at my neighbour's door,
10 Let my wife grind for another, and let others bow down upon her.
11 For this is an infamy; yea, it is an iniquity [to be judged by] the judges:
12 For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and would root out all mine increase.
13 If I have despised the cause of my bondman or of my bondmaid, when they contended with me,
14 What then should I do when God riseth up? and if he visited, what should I answer him?
15 Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not One fashion us in the womb?
16 If I have withheld the poor from  desire, or caused the eyes of the widow to fail;
17 Or have eaten my morsel alone, so that the fatherless ate not thereof,
18 (For from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, and I have guided the  from my mother's womb;)
19 If I have seen any perishing for want of clothing, or any needy without covering;
20 If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my lambs;
21 If I have lifted up my hand against an orphan, because I saw my help in the gate:
22  let my shoulder fall from the shoulder-blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone!
23 For calamity from God was a terror to me, and by reason of his excellency I was powerless.
24 If I have made gold my hope, or said to the fine gold, My confidence!
25 If I rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because my hand had gotten much;
26 If I beheld the sun when it shone, or the moon walking in brightness,
27 And my heart have been secretly enticed, so that my mouth kissed my hand:
28 This also would be an iniquity for the judge, for I should have denied the God who is above.
29 If I rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, and exulted when evil befell him;
30 (Neither have I suffered my mouth to sin by asking his life with a curse;)
31 If the men of my tent said not, Who shall find one that hath not been satisfied with his meat?—
32 The stranger did not lodge without; I opened my doors to the pathway.
33 If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom,
34 Because I feared the great multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and went not out of the door, …
35 Oh that I had one to hear me! Behold my signature: let the Almighty answer me! And let mine opponent write an accusation!
36 Would I not take it upon my shoulder? I would bind it on to me  a crown;
37 I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I come near to him.
38 If my land cry out against me, and its furrows weep together;
39 If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, and have tormented to death the souls of its owners:
40 Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and tares instead of barley. The words of Job are ended.