1 And these are the generations of the sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth; and to them were sons born after the flood.
2 The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
3 And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
4 And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
5 From these came the distribution of the isles of the nations, according to their lands, every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.
6 And the sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.
7 And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
8 And Cush begot Nimrod: he began to be mighty on the earth.
9 He was a mighty hunter before Jehovah; therefore it is said, As Nimrod, the mighty hunter before Jehovah!
10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
11 From that land went out Asshur, and built Nineveh, and Rehoboth-Ir, and Calah,
12 and Resen, between Nineveh and Calah: this is the great city.
13 —And Mizraim begot the Ludim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuhim,
14 and the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim, out of whom came the Philistines, and the Caphtorim.
15 —And Canaan begot Sidon, his firstborn, and Heth,
16 and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
17 and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,
18 and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. And afterwards the families of the Canaanites spread themselves abroad.
19 And the border of the Canaanite was from Sidon, as one goes to Gerar, up to Gazah; as one goes to Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, up to Lesha.
20 These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, in their nations.
21 And to Shem—to him also were  born; he is the father of all the sons of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder.
22 The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.
23 And the sons of Aram: Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.
24 —And Arphaxad begot Shelah; and Shelah begot Eber.
25 And to Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
26 And Joktan begot Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
27 and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,
28 and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
29 and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these were sons of Joktan.
30 And their dwelling was from Mesha, as one goes to Sephar, the eastern mountain.
31 These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations.
32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations. And from these came the distribution of the nations on the earth after the flood.