1 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
2 And the earth was waste and empty, and darkness was on the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.
3 And God said, Let there be light. And there was light.
4 And God saw the light that it was good; and God divided between the light and the darkness.
5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening, and there was morning—the first day.
6 And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it be a division between waters and waters.
7 And God made the expanse, and divided between the waters that are under the expanse and the waters that are above the expanse; and it was so.
8 And God called the expanse Heavens. And there was evening, and there was morning—a second day.
9 And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together to one place, and let the dry  appear. And it was so.
10 And God called the dry  Earth, and the gathering together of the waters he called Seas. And God saw that it was good.
11 And God said, Let the earth cause grass to spring up, herb producing seed, fruit-trees yielding fruit after their kind, the seed of which is in them, on the earth. And it was so.
12 And the earth brought forth grass, herb producing seed after its kind, and trees yielding fruit, the seed of which is in them, after their kind. And God saw that it was good.
13 And there was evening, and there was morning—a third day.
14 And God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens, to divide between the day and the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days and years;
15 and let them be for lights in the expanse of the heavens, to give light on the earth. And it was so.
16 And God made the two great lights, the great light to rule the day, and the small light to rule the night,—and the stars.
17 And God set them in the expanse of the heavens, to give light on the earth,
18 and to rule during the day and during the night, and to divide between the light and the darkness. And God saw that it was good.
19 And there was evening, and there was morning—a fourth day.
20 And God said, Let the waters swarm with swarms of living souls, and let fowl fly above the earth in the expanse of the heavens.
21 And God created the great sea monsters, and every living soul that moves with which the waters swarm, after their kind, and every winged fowl after its kind. And God saw that it was good.
22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply on the earth.
23 And there was evening, and there was morning—a fifth day.
24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth living souls after their kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth, after their kind. And it was so.
25 And God made the beast of the earth after its kind, and the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing of the ground after its kind. And God saw that it was good.
26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the heavens, and over the cattle, and over the whole earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth on the earth.
27 And God created Man in his image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.
28 And God blessed them; and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth, and subdue it; and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the heavens, and over every animal that moveth on the earth.
29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb producing seed that is on the whole earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree producing seed: it shall be food for you;
30 and to every animal of the earth, and to every fowl of the heavens, and to everything that creepeth on the earth, in which is a living soul, every green herb for food. And it was so.
31 And God saw everything that he had made, and behold it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning—the sixth day.