1 As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, So honor is not seemly for a fool.
2 As the sparrow in her wandering, as the swallow in her flying, So the curse that is causeless alighteth not.
3 A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, And a rod for the back of fools.
4 Answer not a fool according to his folly, Lest thou also be like unto him.
5 Answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he be wise in his own conceit.
6 He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool Cutteth off his own feet, and drinketh in damage.
7 The legs of the lame hang loose; So is a parable in the mouth of fools.
8 As one that bindeth a stone in a sling, So is he that giveth honor to a fool.
9 As a thorn that goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, So is a parable in the mouth of fools.
10 As an archer that woundeth all, So is he that hireth a fool and he that hireth them that pass by.
11 As a dog that returneth to his vomit, So is a fool that repeateth his folly.
12 Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? There is more hope of a fool than of him.
13 The sluggard saith, There is a lion in the way; A lion is in the streets.
14 As the door turneth upon its hinges, So doth the sluggard upon his bed.
15 The sluggard burieth his hand in the dish; It wearieth him to bring it again to his mouth.
16 The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit Than seven men that can render a reason.
17 He that passeth by, and vexeth himself with strife belonging not to him, Is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.
18 As a madman who casteth firebrands, Arrows, and death,
19 So is the man that deceiveth his neighbor, And saith, Am not I in sport?
20 For lack of wood the fire goeth out; And where there is no whisperer, contention ceaseth.
21 As coals are to hot embers, and wood to fire, So is a contentious man to inflame strife.
22 The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, And they go down into the innermost parts.
23 Fervent lips and a wicked heart Are like an earthen vessel overlaid with silver dross.
24 He that hateth dissembleth with his lips; But he layeth up deceit within him:
25 When he speaketh fair, believe him not; For there are seven abominations in his heart:
26 Though his hatred cover itself with guile, His wickedness shall be openly showed before the assembly.
27 Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein; And he that rolleth a stone, it shall return upon him.
28 A lying tongue hateth those whom it hath wounded; And a flattering mouth worketh ruin.