1 Every wise woman buildeth her house; But the foolish plucketh it down with her own hands.
2 He that walketh in his uprightness feareth Jehovah; But he that is perverse in his ways despiseth him.
3 In the mouth of the foolish is a rod for his pride; But the lips of the wise shall preserve them.
4 Where no oxen are, the crib is clean; But much increase is by the strength of the ox.
5 A faithful witness will not lie; But a false witness uttereth lies.
6 A scoffer seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not; But knowledge is easy unto him that hath understanding.
7 Go into the presence of a foolish man, And thou shalt not perceive in him the lips of knowledge.
8 The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way; But the folly of fools is deceit.
9 A trespass-offering mocketh fools; But among the upright there is good will.
10 The heart knoweth its own bitterness; And a stranger doth not intermeddle with its joy.
11 The house of the wicked shall be overthrown; But the tent of the upright shall flourish.
12 There is a way which seemeth right unto a man; But the end thereof are the ways of death.
13 Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; And the end of mirth is heaviness.
14 The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways; And a good man shall be satisfied from himself.
15 The simple believeth every word; But the prudent man looketh well to his going.
16 A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil; But the fool beareth himself insolently, and is confident.
17 He that is soon angry will deal foolishly; And a man of wicked devices is hated.
18 The simple inherit folly; But the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
19 The evil bow down before the good; And the wicked, at the gates of the righteous.
20 The poor is hated even of his own neighbor; But the rich hath many friends.
21 He that despiseth his neighbor sinneth; But he that hath pity on the poor, happy is he.
22 Do they not err that devise evil? But mercy and truth shall be to them that devise good.
23 In all labor there is profit; But the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury.
24 The crown of the wise is their riches; But the folly of fools is only folly.
25 A true witness delivereth souls; But he that uttereth lies causeth deceit.
26 In the fear of Jehovah is strong confidence; And his children shall have a place of refuge.
27 The fear of Jehovah is a fountain of life, That one may depart from the snares of death.
28 In the multitude of people is the king's glory; But in the want of people is the destruction of the prince.
29 He that is slow to anger is of great understanding; But he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.
30 A tranquil heart is the life of the flesh; But envy is the rottenness of the bones.
31 He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker; But he that hath mercy on the needy honoreth him.
32 The wicked is thrust down in his evil-doing; But the righteous hath a refuge in his death.
33 Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding; But that which is in the inward part of fools is made known.
34 Righteousness exalteth a nation; But sin is a reproach to any people.
35 The king's favor is toward a servant that dealeth wisely; But his wrath will be against him that causeth shame.