1 A wise son heareth his father's instruction; But a scoffer heareth not rebuke.
2 A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth; But the soul of the treacherous shall eat violence.
3 He that guardeth his mouth keepeth his life; But he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.
4 The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing; But the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.
5 A righteous man hateth lying; But a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame.
6 Righteousness guardeth him that is upright in the way; But wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
7 There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: There is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great wealth.
8 The ransom of a man's life is his riches; But the poor heareth no threatening.
9 The light of the righteous rejoiceth; But the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
10 By pride cometh only contention; But with the well-advised is wisdom.
11 Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished; But he that gathereth by labor shall have increase.
12 Hope deferred maketh the heart sick; But when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life.
13 Whoso despiseth the word bringeth destruction on himself; But he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.
14 The law of the wise is a fountain of life, That one may depart from the snares of death.
15 Good understanding giveth favor; But the way of the transgressor is hard.
16 Every prudent man worketh with knowledge; But a fool flaunteth his folly.
17 A wicked messenger falleth into evil; But a faithful ambassador is health.
18 Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth correction; But he that regardeth reproof shall be honored.
19 The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul; But it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil.
20 Walk with wise men, and thou shalt be wise; But the companion of fools shall smart for it.
21 Evil pursueth sinners; But the righteous shall be recompensed with good.
22 A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children; And the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the righteous.
23 Much food is in the tillage of the poor; But there is that is destroyed by reason of injustice.
24 He that spareth his rod hateth his son; But he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.
25 The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul; But the belly of the wicked shall want.