1 He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck Shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.
2 When the righteous are increased, the people rejoice; But when a wicked man beareth rule, the people sigh.
3 Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father; But he that keepeth company with harlots wasteth his substance.
4 The king by justice establisheth the land; But he that exacteth gifts overthroweth it.
5 A man that flattereth his neighbor Spreadeth a net for his steps.
6 In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare; But the righteous doth sing and rejoice.
7 The righteous taketh knowledge of the cause of the poor; The wicked hath not understanding to know it.
8 Scoffers set a city in a flame; But wise men turn away wrath.
9 If a wise man hath a controversy with a foolish man, Whether he be angry or laugh, there will be no rest.
10 The bloodthirsty hate him that is perfect; And as for the upright, they seek his life.
11 A fool uttereth all his anger; But a wise man keepeth it back and stilleth it.
12 If a ruler hearkeneth to falsehood, All his servants are wicked.
13 The poor man and the oppressor meet together; Jehovah lighteneth the eyes of them both.
14 The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, His throne shall be established for ever.
15 The rod and reproof give wisdom; But a child left to himself causeth shame to his mother.
16 When the wicked are increased, transgression increaseth; But the righteous shall look upon their fall.
17 Correct thy son, and he will give thee rest; Yea, he will give delight unto thy soul.
18 Where there is no vision, the people cast off restraint; But he that keepeth the law, happy is he.
19 A servant will not be corrected by words; For though he understand, he will not give heed.
20 Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? There is more hope of a fool than of him.
21 He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child Shall have him become a son at the last.
22 An angry man stirreth up strife, And a wrathful man aboundeth in transgression.
23 A man's pride shall bring him low; But he that is of a lowly spirit shall obtain honor.
24 Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul; He heareth the adjuration and uttereth nothing.
25 The fear of man bringeth a snare; But whoso putteth his trust in Jehovah shall be safe.
26 Many seek the ruler's favor; But a man's judgment cometh from Jehovah.
27 An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous; And he that is upright in the way is an abomination to the wicked.