1 He that separateth himself seeketh his own desire, And rageth against all sound wisdom.
2 A fool hath no delight in understanding, But only that his heart may reveal itself.
3 When the wicked cometh, there cometh also contempt, And with ignominy cometh reproach.
4 The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters; The wellspring of wisdom is as a flowing brook.
5 To respect the person of the wicked is not good, Nor to turn aside the righteous in judgment.
6 A fool's lips enter into contention, And his mouth calleth for stripes.
7 A fool's mouth is his destruction, And his lips are the snare of his soul.
8 The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, And they go down into the innermost parts.
9 He also that is slack in his work Is brother to him that is a destroyer.
10 The name of Jehovah is a strong tower; The righteous runneth into it, and is safe.
11 The rich man's wealth is his strong city, And as a high wall in his own imagination.
12 Before destruction the heart of man is haughty; And before honor goeth humility.
13 He that giveth answer before he heareth, It is folly and shame unto him.
14 The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; But a broken spirit who can bear?
15 The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; And the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.
16 A man's gift maketh room for him, And bringeth him before great men.
17 He that pleadeth his cause first seemeth just; But his neighbor cometh and searcheth him out.
18 The lot causeth contentions to cease, And parteth between the mighty.
19 A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city; And such contentions are like the bars of a castle.
20 A man's belly shall be filled with the fruit of his mouth; With the increase of his lips shall he be satisfied.
21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue; And they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.
22 Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, And obtaineth favor of Jehovah.
23 The poor useth entreaties; But the rich answereth roughly.
24 He that maketh many friends doeth it to his own destruction; But there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.