1 Then Eliashib the high priest and his brothers the priests arose and rebuilt the Sheep Gate. They consecrated it and erected its doors. They consecrated it up to the Tower of the Hundred and up to the Tower of Hananel. 
2 And next to him the men of Jericho built, and next to him Zaccur son of Imri built.
3 The sons of Hassenaah built the Fish Gate. They laid its beams and erected its doors, its bolts, and its bars. 
4 Next to them Meremoth son of Uriah, son of Hakkoz, repaired. Next to them Meshullam son of Berekiah, son of Meshezabel, repaired. Next to them Zadok son of Baana repaired. 
5 Next to them the Tekoites repaired, but their nobles did not put their neck to the work of their lord.
6 Jehoiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam repaired the old Yeshanah Gate. They laid its beams and erected its doors, its bolts, and its bars. 
7 Next to them Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and Mizpah who were under the rule of the governor of the province Beyond the River, repaired. 
8 Next to him Uzziel son of Harhaiah (goldsmiths) repaired. Next to him Hananiah son of the perfume-makers repaired. They restored Jerusalem up to the Broad Wall. 
9 Next to them Rephaiah son of Hur, commander of half the district of Jerusalem, repaired. 
10 Next to them Jedaiah son of Harumaph repaired opposite his house. Next to him Hattush son of Hashabneiah repaired.
11 Malkijah son of Harim and Hasshub son of Pahath-Moab repaired another section and the Tower of the Ovens. 
12 Next to him Shallum son of Hallohesh, commander of half of the district of Jerusalem, repaired with his daughters.
13 Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah repaired the Valley Gate. They rebuilt it and erected its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and a thousand cubits of the wall up to the Dung Gate.
14 Malkijah son of Recab, commander of the district of Beth-haccherem, repaired the Dung Gate. He rebuilt it and erected its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
15 Shallun son of Col-Hozeh, the commander of the district of Mizpah, repaired the Fountain Gate. He rebuilt it and covered it and erected its doors, its bolts, its bars, and he built the wall of the Pool of Shelah of the king's garden, right up to the steps going down from the city of David. 
16 After him Nehemiah son of Azbuk, commander of half of the district of Beth Zur, repaired up to a point opposite the burial sites of David, and up to the artificial pool and to the house of the mighty warriors.
17 After him the Levites repaired; Rehum son of Bani, and next to him Hashabiah, commander of half of the district of Keilah, repaired his district. 
18 After him their brothers repaired: Bavvai son of Henadad, commander of half of the district of Keilah, 
19 next to him Ezer son of Jeshua, commander of Mizpah, repaired a second section of a wall opposite of the ascent of the armory at the angle. 
20 After him Baruch son of Zabbai zealously repaired a second section of a wall from the angle up to the doorway of the house of Eliashib the high priest. 
21 After him Meremoth son of Uriah, son of Hakkoz, repaired a second section of a wall from the doorway of the house of Eliashib up to the end of the house of Eliashib.
22 After him the priests, men from the vicinity, repaired. 
23 After them Benjamin and Hasshub repaired opposite their house. After them Azariah son of Maaseiah, son of Ananiah, repaired beside his house. 
24 After him Binnui son of Henadad repaired a second section of a wall from the house of Azariah up to the angle up to the corner. 
25 Palal son of Uzai repaired opposite the Angle at the tower that juts out from the upper house of the king, at the courtyard of the guard. After him Pedaiah son of Parosh 
26 and the temple servants who were living on Ophel repaired up to opposite the Water Gate on the east and the projecting tower. 
27 After him the Tekoites repaired a second section of a wall opposite the projecting tower that goes out as far as the wall of Ophel.
28 Above the Horse Gate the priests repaired, each one opposite his house. 
29 After them Zadok son of Immer repaired opposite his house. After him Shemaiah son of Shecaniah, keeper of the East Gate, repaired. 
30 After him Hananiah son of Shelemiah and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph repaired another section. After him Meshullam son of Berekiah repaired the wall opposite his room. 
31 After him Malkijah, one of the goldsmiths, repaired up to the house of the temple servants and the merchants, opposite the Enrollment Gate and up to the upper room of the corner. 
32 Between the upper room of the corner to the Sheep Gate the goldsmiths and merchants repaired.