1 So that, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, thus stand fast in  Lord, beloved.
2 I exhort Euodia, and exhort Syntyche, to be of the same mind in  Lord;
3 yea, I ask thee also, true yokefellow, assist them, who have contended along with me in the glad tidings, with Clement also, and my other fellow-labourers, whose names  in  book of life.
4 Rejoice in  Lord always: again I will say, Rejoice.
5 Let your gentleness be known of all men. The Lord  near.
6 Be careful about nothing; but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God;
7 and the peace of God, which surpasses every understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts by Christ Jesus.
8 For the rest, brethren, whatsoever things  true, whatsoever things  noble, whatsoever things  just, whatsoever things  pure, whatsoever things  amiable, whatsoever things  of good report; if [there be] any virtue and if any praise, think on these things.
9 What ye have both learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, these things do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
10 But I rejoiced in  Lord greatly, that now however at length ye have revived your thinking of me, though surely ye did also think [of me], but lacked opportunity.
11 Not that I speak as regards privation, for as to me *I* have learnt in those circumstances in which I am, to be satisfied in myself.
12 I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. In everything and in all things I am initiated both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer privation.
13 I have strength for all things in him that gives me power.
14 But ye have done well in taking part in my affliction.
15 And know also *ye*, O Philippians, that in  beginning of the gospel, when I came out of Macedonia, no assembly communicated  to me in  way of giving and receiving save *ye* alone;
16 for also in Thessalonica once and even twice ye sent to me for my need.
17 Not that I seek gift, but I seek fruit abounding to your account.
18 But I have all things in full supply and abound; I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things  from you, an odour of sweet savour, an acceptable sacrifice, agreeable to God.
19 But my God shall abundantly supply all your need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
20 But to our God and Father  glory to the ages of ages. Amen.
21 Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who  with me salute you.
22 All the saints salute you, and specially those of the household of Caesar.
23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ  with your spirit. Amen.