1 For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in  Lord: to write the same things to you, to me  not irksome, and for you safe.
2 See to dogs, see to evil workmen, see to the concision.
3 For *we* are the circumcision, who worship by  Spirit of God, and boast in Christ Jesus, and do not trust in flesh.
4 Though *I* have  trust even in flesh; if any other think to trust in flesh, *I* rather:
5 as to circumcision, [I received it] the eighth day; of  race of Israel, of  tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews; as to  law, a Pharisee;
6 as to zeal, persecuting the assembly; as to righteousness which  in  law, found blameless;
7 but what things were gain to me these I counted, on account of Christ, loss.
8 But surely I count also all things to be loss on account of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss of all, and count them to be filth, that I may gain Christ;
9 and that I may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which [would be] on the principle of law, but that which is by faith of Christ, the righteousness which  of God through faith,
10 to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
11 if any way I arrive at the resurrection from among  dead.
12 Not that I have already obtained [the prize], or am already perfected; but I pursue, if also I may get possession [of it], seeing that also I have been taken possession of by Christ .
13 Brethren, *I* do not count to have got possession myself; but one thing—forgetting the things behind, and stretching out to the things before,
14 I pursue,  towards  goal, for the prize of the calling on high of God in Christ Jesus.
15 As many therefore as  perfect, let us be thus minded; and if ye are any otherwise minded, this also God shall reveal to you.
16 But whereto we have attained, [let us] walk in the same steps.
17 Be imitators  together of me, brethren, and fix your eyes on those walking thus as you have us for a model;
18 (for many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they  the enemies of the cross of Christ:
19 whose end  destruction, whose god  the belly, and  glory in their shame, who mind earthly things:)
20 for *our* commonwealth has its existence in  heavens, from which also we await the Lord Jesus Christ  Saviour,
21 who shall transform our body of humiliation into conformity to his body of glory, according to the working of  power which he has even to subdue all things to himself.