1 Then David had discussions with the captains of thousands and the captains of hundreds and with every chief.
2 And David said to all the men of Israel who had come together there, If it seems good to you and if it is the purpose of the Lord our God, let us send to all the rest of our brothers, everywhere in the land of Israel, and to the priests and the Levites in their towns and the country round them, and get them to come together here to us;
3 And let us get back for ourselves the ark of our God: for in the days of Saul we did not go to it for directions.
4 And all the people said they would do so, for it seemed right to them.
5 So David sent for all Israel to come together, from Shihor, the river of Egypt, as far as the way into Hamath, to get the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim.
6 And David went up, with all Israel, to Baalah, that is, to Kiriath-jearim in Judah, to get up from there the ark of God, over which the holy Name is named, the name of the Lord whose place is between the winged ones.
7 And they put the ark of God on a new cart, and took it out of the house of Abinadab; and Uzza and Ahio were the drivers of the cart.
8 Then David and all Israel made melody before God with all their strength, with songs and corded instruments of music, and with brass instruments and horns.
9 And when they came to the grain-floor of Chidon, Uzza put out his hand to keep the ark in its place, for the oxen were slipping.
10 And the wrath of the Lord, burning against Uzza, sent destruction on him because he had put his hand on the ark, and death came to him there before God.
11 And David was angry because of the Lord's outburst of wrath against Uzza, and he gave that place the name Perez-uzza, to this day.
12 And so great was David's fear of God that day, that he said, How may I let the ark of God come to me?
13 So David did not let the ark come back to him to the town of David, but had it turned away and put into the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
14 And the ark of God was in the house of Obed-edom for three months; and the Lord sent a blessing on the house of Obed-edom and on all he had.
