1 In the seventh , on the one and twentieth  of the month, came the word of Jehovah by the prophet Haggai, saying,
2 Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying,
3 Who is left among you that saw this house in its former glory? and how do ye see it now? Is it not as nothing in your eyes?
4 But now be strong, Zerubbabel, saith Jehovah; and be strong, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith Jehovah, and work: for I am with you, saith Jehovah of hosts.
5 The word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, and my Spirit, remain among you: fear ye not.
6 For thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry ;
7 and I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come; and I will fill this house with glory, saith Jehovah of hosts.
8 The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith Jehovah of hosts.
9 The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, saith Jehovah of hosts; and in this place will I give peace, saith Jehovah of hosts.
10 On the four and twentieth  of the ninth , in the second year of Darius, came the word of Jehovah by Haggai the prophet, saying,
11 Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Ask now the priests  the law, saying,
12 If one bear holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt do touch bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or any food—shall it become holy? And the priests answered and said, No.
13 And Haggai said, If one that is unclean by a dead body touch any of these, is it become unclean? And the priests answered and said, It shall be unclean.
14 Then answered Haggai and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, saith Jehovah, and so is every work of their hands; and that which they offer there is unclean.
15 And now, I pray you, consider from this day and onward, from before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of Jehovah,
16 —before those  were, when one came to a heap of twenty , there were but ten; when one came to the vat to draw out fifty press-measures, there were but twenty.
17 I smote you with blasting and with mildew and with hail in all the work of your hands; and ye  not to me, saith Jehovah.
18 Consider, I pray you, from this day and onward, from the four and twentieth day of the ninth , from the day that the foundation of Jehovah's temple was laid, consider .
19 Is the seed yet in the barn? yea, the vine, and the fig-tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive-tree have not brought forth: from this day will I bless .
20 And the word of Jehovah came the second time unto Haggai on the four and twentieth  of the month, saying,
21 Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth;
22 and I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will overthrow the chariots, and those that ride therein; and the horses and their riders shall come down, every one by the sword of his brother.
23 In that day, saith Jehovah of hosts, will I take thee, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, my servant, saith Jehovah, and will make thee as a signet; for I have chosen thee, saith Jehovah of hosts.