1 And he shewed me a river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb.
2 In the midst of the street thereof, and on both sides of the river, was the tree of life, bearing twelve fruits, yielding its fruits every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
3 And there shall be no curse any more; but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him.
4 And they shall see his face: and his name shall be on their foreheads.
5 And night shall be no more: and they shall not need the light of the lamp, nor the light of the sun, because the Lord God shall enlighten them, and they shall reign for ever and ever.
6 And he said to me: These words are most faithful and true. And the Lord God of the spirits of the prophets sent his angel to shew his servants the things which must be done shortly.
7 And, Behold I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the words of the prophecy of this book.
8 And I, John, who have heard and seen these things. And after I had heard and seen, I fell down to adore before the feet of the angel, who shewed me these things.
9 And he said to me: See thou do it not: for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them that keep the words of the prophecy of this book. Adore God.
10 And he saith to me: Seal not the words of the prophecy of this book: for the time is at hand.
11 He that hurteth, let him hurt still: and he that is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is just, let him be justified still: and he that is holy, let him be sanctified still.
12 Behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to render to every man according to his works.
13 I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.
14 Blessed are they that wash their robes in the blood of the Lamb: that they may have a right to the tree of life, and may enter in by the gates into the city.
15 Without are dogs, and sorcerers, and unchaste, and murderers, and servers of idols, and every one that loveth and maketh a lie.