1 In the seventh month on the twenty-first day, the word of Yahweh came through Haggai the prophet, saying, 
2 "Speak now to Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying, 
3 'Who among you is left that saw this house in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Does it seem like nothing to you? 
4 'But now take courage, Zerubbabel,' declares Yahweh. 'Take courage, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and take courage, all the people of the land,' declares Yahweh. 'Do the work, because I am with you,' declares Yahweh of hosts, 
5 'according to the promise that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt. My spirit is with you; do not be afraid.' 
6 For thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'Once again, in a little while, I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and dry land. 
7 I will shake all the nations so that the treasure of all the nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory,' says Yahweh of hosts. 
8 'The silver is mine and the gold is mine,' declares Yahweh of hosts. 
9 'The latter glory of this house will be greater than the former,' says Yahweh of hosts, 'and in this place I will give peace' declares Yahweh of hosts.'"
10 On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of Yahweh came to the prophet Haggai, saying, 
11 "Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'Ask now the priests for a ruling: 
12 If a man carries consecrated meat in the hem of his garment, and his hem touches bread, or stew, or wine, or olive oil, or any kind of food, will it become holy?'" The priests answered, "No." 
13 Then Haggai said, "If one who is unclean from contact with a corpse touches any of these, will it become unclean?" The priests answered, "Yes, it will be become unclean." 
14 And Haggai answered and said, "'So it is with this people, and with this nation before me,' declares Yahweh, 'and so it is with every kind of work of their hands; and what they offer there is unclean. 
15 But now, please consider from this day forward, before one stone was placed on another in the temple of Yahweh, 
16 from that time when one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were only ten, and when one came to the wine vat to draw out fifty measures, there were only twenty. 
17 I struck you with blight, and with plant mildew, and hail, all the work of your hands. But you did not come back to me,' declares Yahweh. 
18 'Please consider from this day forward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, from the day that the foundation of Yahweh's temple was laid, consider: 
19 Is there still seed in the store chamber? Do the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree still produce nothing? From this day forward I will bless you.'"
20 And the word of Yahweh came to Haggai a second time on the twenty-fourth day of the month saying, 
21 "Say to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah: I am going to shake the heavens and the earth, 
22 and I will overthrow the thrones of kingdoms and destroy the military strength of the kingdoms of the nations. I will overthrow chariots and their drivers; horses and their riders will fall, every one by the sword of another! 
23 'On that day,' declares Yahweh of hosts, 'I will take you, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, my servant,' declares Yahweh, 'and I will make you a signet ring, for I have chosen you,' declares Yahweh of hosts."