1 He that loveth correction, loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is foolish.
2 He that is good, shall draw grace from the Lord: but he that trusteth in his own devices doth wickedly.
3 Men shall not be strengthened by wickedness: and the root of the just shall not be moved.
4 A diligent woman is a crown to her husband: and she that doth things worthy of confusion, is a rottenness in his bones.
5 The thoughts of the just are judgments: and the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.
6 The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood: the mouth of the just shall deliver them.
7 Turn the wicked, and they shall not be: but the house of the just shall stand firm.
8 A man shall be known by his learning: but he that is vain and foolish, shall be exposed to contempt.
9 Better is the poor man that provideth for himself, than he that is glorious and wanteth bread.
10 The just regardeth the lives of his beasts: but the bowels of the wicked are cruel.
11 He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that pursueth idleness is very foolish. He that is delighted in passing his time over wine, leaveth a reproach in his strong holds.
12 The desire of the wicked is the fortification of evil men: but the root of the just shall prosper.
13 For the sins of the lips ruin draweth nigh to the evil man: but the just shall escape out of distress.
14 By the fruit of his own mouth shall a man be filled with good things, and according to the works of his hands it shall be repaid him.
15 The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsels.
16 A fool immediately sheweth his anger: but he that dissembleth injuries is wise.
17 He that speaketh that which he knoweth, sheweth forth justice: but he that lieth, is a deceitful witness.
18 There is that promiseth, and is pricked as it were with a sword of conscience: but the tongue of the wise is health.
19 The lip of truth shall be steadfast for ever: but he that is a hasty witness, frameth a lying tongue.
20 Deceit is in the heart of them that think evil things: but joy followeth them that take counsels of peace.
21 Whatsoever shall befall the just man. it shall not make him sad: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.
22 Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord: but they that deal faithfully please him.
23 A cautious man concealeth knowledge: and the heart of fools publisheth folly.
24 The hand of the valiant shall bear rule: but that which is slothful, shall be under tribute.
25 Grief in the heart of a man shall bring him low, but with a good word he shall be made glad.
26 He that neglecteth a loss for the sake of a friend, is just: but the way of the wicked shall deceive them.
27 The deceitful man shall not find gain: but the substance of a just man shall be precious gold.
28 In the path of justice is life: but the by-way leadeth to death.