1 He that hath a mind to depart from a friend seeketh occasions: he shall ever be subject to reproach.
2 A fool receiveth not the words of prudence: unless thou say those things which are in his heart.
3 The wicked man when he is come into the depth of sins, contemneth: but ignominy and reproach follow him.
4 Words from the mouth of a men are as deep water: and the fountain of wisdom as an overflowing stream.
5 It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to decline from the truth of judgment.
6 The lips of a fool intermeddle with strife: and his mouth provoketh quarrels.
7 The mouth of a fool is his destruction: and his lips are the ruin of his soul.
8 The words of the double tongued are as if they were harmless: and they reach even to the inner parts of the bowels. Fear casteth down the slothful: and the souls of the effeminate shall be hungry.
9 He that is loose and slack in his work, is the brother of him that wasteth his own works.
10 The name of the Lord is a strong tower: the just runneth to it, and shall be exalted.
11 The substance of the rich man is the city of his strength, and as a strong wall compassing him about.
12 Before destruction, the heart of a man is exalted: and before he be glorified, it is humbled.
13 He that answereth before he heareth sheweth himself to be a fool, and worthy of confusion.
14 The spirit of a man upholdeth his infirmity: but a spirit that is easily angered, who can bear?
15 A wise heart shall acquire knowledge: and the ear of the wise seeketh instruction.
16 A man's gift enlargeth his may, and maketh him room before princes.
17 The just is first accuser of himself: his friend cometh, and shall search him.
18 The lot suppresseth contentions, and determineth even between the mighty.
19 A brother that is helped by his brother, is like a strong city: and judgments are like the bars of cities.
20 Of the fruit of a man's mouth shall his belly be satisfied: and the offspring of his lips shall fill him.
21 Death and life are in the power of the tongue: they that love it, shall eat the fruits thereof.
22 He that hath found a good wife, hath found a good thing, and shall receive a pleasure from the Lord. He that driveth away a good wife, driveth away a good thing: but he that keepeth an adulteress, is foolish and wicked.
23 The poor will speak with supplications, and the rich will speak roughly.
24 A man amiable in society, shall be more friendly than a brother.