1 A wise son maketh the father glad: but a foolish son is the sorrow of his mother.
2 Treasures of wickedness shall profit nothing: but justice shall deliver from death.
3 The Lord will not afflict the soul of the just with famine, and he will disappoint the deceitful practices of the wicked.
4 The slothful hand hath wrought poverty: but the hand of the industrious getteth riches. He that trusteth to lies feedeth the winds: and the same runneth after birds that fly away.
5 He that gathered in the harvest is a wise son: but he that snorteth in the summer, is the son of confusion.
6 The blessing of the Lord is upon the head of the just: but iniquity covereth the mouth of the wicked.
7 The memory of the just is with praises: and the name of the wicked shall rot.
8 The wise of heart receiveth precepts: a fool is beaten with lips.
9 He that walketh sincerely, walketh confidently: but he that perverteth his ways, shall be manifest.
10 He that winketh with the eye shall cause sorrow: and the foolish in lips shall be beaten.
11 The mouth of the just is a vein of life: and the mouth of the wicked covereth iniquity.
12 Hatred stirreth up strifes: and charity covereth all sins.
13 In the lips of the wise is wisdom found: and a rod on the back of him that wanteth sense.
14 Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the fool is next to confusion.
15 The substance of a rich man is the city of his strength: the fear of the poor is their poverty.
16 The work of the just is unto life: but the fruit of the wicked, unto sin.
17 The way of life, to him that observeth correction: but he that forsaketh reproofs goeth astray.
18 Lying lips hide hatred: he that uttereth reproach is foolish.
19 In the multitude of words there shall not want sin: but he that refraineth his lips is most wise.
20 The tongue of the just is as choice silver: but the heart of the wicked is nothing worth.
21 The lips of the just teach many: but they that are ignorant, shall die in the want of understanding.
22 The blessing of the Lord maketh men rich: neither shall affliction be joined to them.
23 A fool worketh mischief as it were for sport: but wisdom is prudence to a man.
24 That which the wicked feareth, shall come upon him: to the just their desire shall be given.
25 As a tempest that passeth, so the wicked shall be no more: but the just is as an everlasting foundation.
26 As vinegar to the teeth, and smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that sent him.
27 The fear of the Lord shall prolong days: and the years of the wicked shall be shortened.
28 The expectation of the just is joy; but the hope of the wicked shall perish.
29 The strength of the upright is the way of the Lord: and fear to them that work evil.
30 The just shall never be moved: but the wicked shall not dwell on the earth.
31 The mouth of the just shall bring forth wisdom: the tongue of the perverse shall perish.
32 The lips of the just consider what is acceptable: and the mouth of the wicked uttereth perverse things.