1 A wise son heareth the doctrine of his father: but he that is a scorner, beareth not when he is reproved.
2 Of the fruit of his own mouth shall a man be filled with good things: but the soul of transgressors is wicked.
3 He that keepeth his mouth, keepeth his soul: but he that hath no guard on his speech shall meet with evils.
4 The sluggard willeth and willeth not: but the soul of them that work, shall be made fat.
5 The just shall hate a lying word: but the wicked confoundeth, and shall be confounded.
6 Justice keepeth the way of the innocent: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.
7 One is as it were rich, when he hath nothing: and another is as it were poor, when he hath great riches.
8 The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but he that is poor beareth not reprehension.
9 The light of the just giveth joy: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.
10 Among the proud there are always contentions: but they that do all things with counsel, are ruled by wisdom.
11 Substance got in haste shall be diminished: but that which by little and little is gathered with the hand shall increase.
12 Hope that is deferred afflicteth the soul: desire when it cometh is a tree of life.
13 Whosoever speaketh ill of any thing, bindeth himself for the time to come: but he that feareth the commandment, shall dwell in peace. Deceitful souls go astray in sins: the just are merciful, and shew mercy.
14 The law of the wise is a fountain of life, that he may decline from the ruin of death.
15 Good instruction shall give grace: in the way of scorners is a deep pit.
16 The prudent man doth all things with counsel: but he that is a fool, layeth open his folly.
17 The messenger of the wicked shall fall into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health.
18 Poverty and shame to him that refuseth instruction: but he that yieldeth to reproof, shall be glorified.
19 The desire that is accomplished, delighteth the soul: fools hate them that flee from evil things.
20 He that walketh with the wise, shall be wise: a friend of fools shall become like to them.
21 Evil pursueth sinners: and to the just good shall be repaid.
22 The good man leaveth heirs, sons, and grandsons: and the substance of the sinner is kept for the just.
23 Much food is in the tillage of fathers: but for others it is gathered with out judgment.
24 He that spareth the rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him correcteth him betimes.
25 The just eateth and filleth his soul: but the belly of the wicked is never to be filled.