1 Judge not, that ye may not be judged;
2 for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you.
3 But why lookest thou on the mote that is in the eye of thy brother, but observest not the beam that is in thine eye?
4 Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Allow , I will cast out the mote from thine eye; and behold, the beam is in thine eye?
5 Hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine eye, and then thou wilt see clearly to cast out the mote out of the eye of thy brother.
6 Give not that which is holy to the dogs, nor cast your pearls before the swine, lest they trample them with their feet, and turning round rend you.
7 Ask, and it shall be given to you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened to you.
8 For every one that asks receives; and he that seeks finds; and to him that knocks it shall be opened.
9 Or what man is there of you who, if his son shall ask of him a loaf of bread, will give him a stone;
10 and if he ask a fish, will give him a serpent?
11 If therefore *ye*, being wicked, know  to give good gifts to your children, how much rather shall your Father who is in the heavens give good things to them that ask of him?
12 Therefore all things whatever ye desire that men should do to you, thus do *ye* also do to them; for this is the law and the prophets.
13 Enter in through the narrow gate, for wide the gate and broad the way that leads to destruction, and many are they who enter in through it.
14 For narrow the gate and straitened the way that leads to life, and they are few who find it.
15 But beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but within are ravening wolves.
16 By their fruits ye shall know them. Do  gather a bunch of grapes from thorns, or from thistles figs?
17 So every good tree produces good fruits, but the worthless tree produces bad fruits.
18 A good tree cannot produce bad fruits, nor a worthless tree produce good fruits.
19 Every tree not producing good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire.
20 By their fruits then surely ye shall know them.
21 Not every one who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of the heavens, but he that does the will of my Father who is in the heavens.
22 Many shall say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied through *thy* name, and through *thy* name cast out demons, and through *thy* name done many works of power?
23 and then will I avow unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, workers of lawlessness.
24 Whoever therefore hears these my words and does them, I will liken him to a prudent man, who built his house upon the rock;
25 and the rain came down, and the streams came, and the winds blew and fell upon that house, and it did not fall, for it had been founded upon the rock.
26 And every one who hears these my words and does not do them, he shall be likened to a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand;
27 and the rain came down, and the streams came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell, and its fall was great.
28 And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were astonished at his doctrine,
29 for he taught them as having authority, and not as their scribes.