1 Book of the generation of Jesus Christ, Son of David, Son of Abraham.
2 Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Juda and his brethren;
3 and Juda begat Phares and Zara of Thamar; and Phares begat Esrom, and Esrom begat Aram,
4 and Aram begat Aminadab, and Aminadab begat Naasson, and Naasson begat Salmon,
5 and Salmon begat Booz of Rachab; and Booz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse,
6 and Jesse begat David the king. And David begat Solomon, of her [that had been the wife] of Urias;
7 and Solomon begat Roboam, and Roboam begat Abia, and Abia begat Asa,
8 and Asa begat Josaphat, and Josaphat begat Joram, and Joram begat Ozias,
9 and Ozias begat Joatham, and Joatham begat Achaz, and Achaz begat Ezekias,
10 and Ezekias begat Manasses, and Manasses begat Amon, and Amon begat Josias,
11 and Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren, at the time of the carrying away of Babylon.
12 And after the carrying away of Babylon, Jechonias begat Salathiel, and Salathiel begat Zorobabel,
13 and Zorobabel begat Abiud, and Abiud begat Eliakim, and Eliakim begat Azor,
14 and Azor begat Sadoc, and Sadoc begat Achim, and Achim begat Eliud,
15 and Eliud begat Eliazar, and Eliazar begat Matthan, and Matthan begat Jacob,
16 and Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.
17 All the generations, therefore, from Abraham to David  fourteen generations; and from David until the carrying away of Babylon, fourteen generations; and from the carrying away of Babylon unto the Christ, fourteen generations.
18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was thus: His mother, Mary, that is, having been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child of  Holy Spirit.
19 But Joseph, her husband, being  righteous , and unwilling to expose her publicly, purposed to have put her away secretly;
20 but while he pondered on these things, behold, an angel of  Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, fear not to take to  Mary, thy wife, for that which is begotten in her is of  Holy Spirit.
21 And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for *he* shall save his people from their sins.
22 Now all this came to pass that that might be fulfilled which was spoken by  Lord, through the prophet, saying,
23 Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is, being interpreted, 'God with us.'
24 But Joseph, having awoke up from his sleep, did as the angel of  Lord had enjoined him, and took to  his wife,
25 and knew her not until she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name Jesus.