1 And when it was morning all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus so that they might put him to death.
2 And having bound him they led him away, and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate, the governor.
3 Then Judas, who delivered him up, seeing that he had been condemned, filled with remorse, returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders,
4 saying, I have sinned  having delivered up guiltless blood. But they said, What is that to us? see *thou* [to that].
5 And having cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, he left the place, and went away and hanged himself.
6 And the chief priests took the pieces of silver and said, It is not lawful to cast them into the Corban, since it is  price of blood.
7 And having taken counsel, they bought with them the field of the potter for a burying-ground for strangers.
8 Wherefore that field has been called Blood-field unto this day.
9 Then was fulfilled that which was spoken through Jeremias the prophet, saying, And I took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was set a price on, whom [they who were] of the sons of Israel had set a price on,
10 and they gave them for the field of the potter, according as  Lord commanded me.
11 But Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor questioned him, saying, Art *thou* the King of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, Thou sayest.
12 And when he was accused of the chief priests and the elders, he answered nothing.
13 Then says Pilate to him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee?
14 And he answered him not so much as one word, so that the governor wondered exceedingly.
15 Now at  feast the governor was accustomed to release one prisoner to the crowd, whom they would.
16 And they had then a notable prisoner, named Barabbas.
17 They therefore being gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom will ye that I release to you, Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?
18 For he knew that they had delivered him up through envy.
19 But, as he was sitting on the judgment-seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that righteous ; for I have suffered to-day many things in a dream because of him.
20 But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds that they should beg for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus.
21 And the governor answering said to them, Which of the two will ye that I release unto you? And they said, Barabbas.
22 Pilate says to them, What then shall I do with Jesus, who is called Christ? They all say, Let him be crucified.
23 And the governor said, What evil then has he done? But they cried more than ever, saying, Let him be crucified.
24 And Pilate, seeing that it availed nothing, but that rather a tumult was arising, having taken water, washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am guiltless of the blood of this righteous one: see *ye* [to it].
25 And all the people answering said, His blood  on us and on our children.
26 Then he released to them Barabbas; but Jesus, having scourged , he delivered up that he might be crucified.
27 Then the soldiers of the governor, having taken Jesus with  to the praetorium, gathered against him the whole band,
28 and having taken off his garment, put on him a scarlet cloak;
29 and having woven a crown out of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and, bowing the knee before him, they mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews!
30 And having spit upon him, they took the reed and beat  on his head.
31 And when they had mocked him, they took the cloak off him, and put his own clothes on him, and led him away to crucify.
32 And as they went forth they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name; him they compelled to go [with them] that he might bear his cross.
33 And having come to a place called Golgotha, which means Place of a skull,
34 they gave to him to drink vinegar mingled with gall; and having tasted , he would not drink.
35 And having crucified him, they parted his clothes amongst , casting lots.
36 And sitting down, they kept guard over him there.
37 And they set up over his head his accusation written: This is Jesus, the King of the Jews.
38 Then are crucified with him two robbers, one on the right hand and one on the left.
39 But the passers-by reviled him, shaking their heads
40 and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself. If thou art Son of God, descend from the cross.
41  in like manner the chief priests also, mocking, with the scribes and elders, said,
42 He saved others, himself he cannot save. He is King of Israel: let him descend now from the cross, and we will believe on him.
43 He trusted upon God; let him save him now if he will  him. For he said, I am Son of God.
44 And the robbers also who had been crucified with him cast the same reproaches on him.
45 Now from  sixth hour there was darkness over the whole land until  ninth hour;
46 but about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
47 And some of those who stood there, when they heard , said, This  calls for Elias.
48 And immediately one of them running and getting a sponge, having filled  with vinegar and fixed  on a reed, gave him to drink.
49 But the rest said, Let be; let us see if Elias comes to save him.
50 And Jesus, having again cried with a loud voice, gave up the ghost.
51 And lo, the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom, and the earth was shaken, and the rocks were rent,
52 and the tombs were opened; and many bodies of the saints fallen asleep arose,
53 and going out of the tombs after his arising, entered into the holy city and appeared unto many.
54 But the centurion, and they who were with him on guard over Jesus, seeing the earthquake and the things that took place, feared greatly, saying, Truly this  was Son of God.
55 And there were there many women beholding from afar off, who had followed Jesus from Galilee ministering to him,
56 among whom was Mary of Magdala, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
57 Now when even was come there came a rich man of Arimathaea, his name Joseph, who also himself was a disciple to Jesus.
58 *He*, going to Pilate, begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given up.
59 And Joseph having got the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,
60 and laid it in his new tomb which he had hewn in the rock; and having rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, went away.
61 But Mary of Magdala was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the sepulchre.
62 Now on the morrow, which is after the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees came together to Pilate,
63 saying, Sir, we have called to mind that that deceiver said when he was still alive, After three days I arise.
64 Command therefore that the sepulchre be secured until the third day, lest his disciples should come and steal him away, and say to the people, He is risen from the dead; and the last error shall be worse than the first.
65 And Pilate said to them, Ye have a watch: go, secure it as well as ye know how.
66 And they went and secured the sepulchre, having sealed the stone, with the watch .