1 Then after a lapse of fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus also with ;
2 and I went up according to revelation, and I laid before them the glad tidings which I preach among the nations, but privately to those conspicuous [among them], lest in any way I run or had run in vain;
3 (but neither was Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, compelled to be circumcised;)
4 and [it was] on account of the false brethren brought in surreptitiously, who came in surreptitiously to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage;
5 to whom we yielded in subjection not even for an hour, that the truth of the glad tidings might remain with you.
6 But from those who were conspicuous as being somewhat—whatsoever they were, it makes no difference to me: God does not accept man's person; for to me those who were conspicuous communicated nothing;
7 but, on the contrary, seeing that the glad tidings of the uncircumcision were confided to me, even as to Peter that of the circumcision,
8 (for he that wrought in Peter for  apostleship of the circumcision wrought also in me towards the Gentiles,)
9 and recognising the grace given to me, James and Cephas and John, who were conspicuous as being pillars, gave to me and Barnabas  right hands of fellowship, that *we* [should go] to the nations, and *they* to the circumcision;
10 only that we should remember the poor, which same thing also I was diligent to do.
11 But when Peter came to Antioch, I withstood him to  face, because he was to be condemned:
12 for before that certain came from James, he ate with [those of] the nations; but when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing those of  circumcision;
13 and the rest of the Jews also played the same dissembling part with him; so that even Barnabas was carried away too by their dissimulation.
14 But when I saw that they do not walk straightforwardly, according to the truth of the glad tidings, I said to Peter before all, If *thou*, being a Jew, livest as the nations and not as the Jews, how dost thou compel the nations to Judaize?
15 We, Jews by nature, and not sinners of  nations,
16 but knowing that a man is not justified on the principle of works of law  but by the faith of Jesus Christ, *we* also have believed on Christ Jesus, that we might be justified on the principle of  faith of Christ; and not of works of law; because on the principle of works of law no flesh shall be justified.
17 Now if in seeking to be justified in Christ we also have been found sinners, then  Christ minister of sin? Far be the thought.
18 For if the things I have thrown down, these I build again, I constitute myself a transgressor.
19 For *I*, through law, have died to law, that I may live to God.
20 I am crucified with Christ, and no longer live, *I*, but Christ lives in me; but  that I now live in flesh, I live by faith, the  of the Son of God, who has loved me and given himself for me.
21 I do not set aside the grace of God; for if righteousness  by law, then Christ has died for nothing.