1 Christ has set us free in freedom; stand fast therefore, and be not held again in a yoke of bondage.
2 Behold, I, Paul, say to you, that if ye are circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.
3 And I witness again to every man [who is] circumcised, that he is debtor to do the whole law.
4 Ye are deprived of all profit from the Christ as separated [from him], as many as are justified by law; ye have fallen from grace.
5 For we, by  Spirit, on the principle of faith, await the hope of righteousness.
6 For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision has any force, nor uncircumcision; but faith working through love.
7 Ye ran well; who has stopped you that ye should not obey the truth?
8 The persuasibleness  not of him that calls you.
9 A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
10 *I* have confidence as to you in  Lord, that ye will have no other mind; and he that is troubling you shall bear the guilt [of it], whosoever he may be.
11 But *I*, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why am I yet persecuted? Then the scandal of the cross has been done away.
12 I would that they would even cut themselves off who throw you into confusion.
13 For *ye* have been called to liberty, brethren; only  not  liberty into an opportunity to the flesh, but by love serve one another.
14 For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself;
15 but if ye bite and devour one another, see that ye are not consumed one of another.
16 But I say, Walk in  Spirit, and ye shall no way fulfil flesh's lust.
17 For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these things are opposed one to the other, that ye should not do those things which ye desire;
18 but if ye are led by the Spirit, ye are not under law.
19 Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are fornication, uncleanness, licentiousness,
20 idolatry, sorcery, hatred, strifes, jealousies, angers, contentions, disputes, schools of opinion,
21 envyings, murders, drunkennesses, revels, and things like these; as to which I tell you beforehand, even as I also have said before, that they who do such things shall not inherit God's kingdom.
22 But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, fidelity,
23 meekness, self-control: against such things there is no law.
24 But they that  of the Christ have crucified the flesh with the passions and the lusts.
25 If we live by the Spirit, let us walk also by the Spirit.
26 Let us not become vain-glorious, provoking one another, envying one another.