1 Paul, apostle, not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God  Father who raised him from among  dead,
2 and all the brethren with me, to the assemblies of Galatia.
3 Grace to you, and peace, from God  Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ,
4 who gave himself for our sins, so that he should deliver us out of the present evil world, according to the will of our God and Father;
5 to whom  glory to the ages of ages. Amen.
6 I wonder that ye thus quickly change, from him that called you in Christ's grace, to a different gospel,
7 which is not another ; but there are some that trouble you, and desire to pervert the glad tidings of the Christ.
8 But if even *we* or an angel out of heaven announce as glad tidings to you  besides what we have announced as glad tidings to you, let him be accursed.
9 As we have said before, now also again I say, If any one announce to you as glad tidings  besides what ye have received, let him be accursed.
10 For do I now seek to satisfy men or God? or do I seek to please men? If I were yet pleasing men, I were not Christ's bondman.
11 But I let you know, brethren, [as to] the glad tidings which were announced by me, that they are not according to man.
12 For neither did I receive them from man, neither was I taught , but by revelation of Jesus Christ.
13 For ye have heard [what was] my conversation formerly in Judaism, that I excessively persecuted the assembly of God, and ravaged it;
14 and advanced in Judaism beyond many  contemporaries in my nation, being exceedingly zealous of the doctrines of my fathers.
15 But when God, who set me apart  from my mother's womb, and called  by his grace,
16 was pleased to reveal his Son in me, that I may announce him as glad tidings among the nations, immediately I took not counsel with flesh and blood,
17 nor went I up to Jerusalem to those [who were] apostles before me; but I went to Arabia, and again returned to Damascus.
18 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to make acquaintance with Peter, and I remained with him fifteen days;
19 but I saw none other of the apostles, but James the brother of the Lord.
20 Now what I write to you, behold, before God, I do not lie.
21 Then I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
22 But I was unknown personally to the assemblies of Judaea which  in Christ;
23 only they were hearing that he who persecuted us formerly now announces the glad tidings of the faith which formerly he ravaged:
24 and they glorified God in me.