1 Therefore, because we have been declared righteous by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
2 through whom also we have obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we boast in the hope of the glory of God. 
3 And not only this, but we also boast in our afflictions, because we know that affliction produces patient endurance, 
4 and patient endurance, proven character, and proven character, hope, 
5 and hope does not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts through the Holy Spirit who was given to us.
6 For while we were still helpless, yet at the proper time Christ died for the ungodly. 
7 For only rarely will someone die on behalf of a righteous person (for on behalf of a good person possibly someone might even dare to die), 
8 but God demonstrates his own love for us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. 
9 Therefore, by much more, because we have been declared righteous now by his blood, we will be saved through him from the wrath. 
10 For if, while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, by much more, having been reconciled, we will be saved by his life. 
11 And not only this, but also we are boasting in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation.
12 Because of this, just as sin entered into the world through one man, and death through sin, so also death spread to all people because all sinned. 
13 For until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not charged to one's account when there is no law. 
14 But death reigned from Adam until Moses even over those who did not sin in the likeness of the transgression of Adam, who is a type of the one who is to come. 
15 But the gift is not like the trespass, for if by the trespass of the one, the many died, by much more did the grace of God and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, multiply to the many. 
16 And the gift is not as through the one who sinned, for on the one hand, judgment from the one sin led to condemnation, but the gift, from many trespasses, led to justification. 
17 For if by the trespass of the one man, death reigned through the one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one, Jesus Christ. 
18 Consequently therefore, as through one trespass came condemnation to all people, so also through one righteous deed came justification of life to all people. 
19 For just as through the disobedience of the one man, the many were made sinners, so also through the obedience of the one, the many will be made righteous. 
20 Now the law came in as a side issue, in order that the trespass could increase, but where sin increased, grace was present in greater abundance, 
21 so that just as sin reigned in death, so also grace would reign through righteousness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.