1 Now I commend to you Phoebe our sister, who is also a servant of the church in Cenchrea, 
2 in order that you may welcome her in the Lord in a manner worthy of the saints, and help her in whatever task she may have need from you, for she herself also has been a helper of many, even me myself.
3 Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, 
4 who risked their own necks for my life, for which not only I am thankful, but also all the churches of the Gentiles; 
5 also greet the church in their house. Greet Epenetus my dear friend, who is the first convert of Asia for Christ. 
6 Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you. 
7 Greet Andronicus and Junia, my compatriots and my fellow prisoners, who are well known to the apostles, who were also in Christ before me. 
8 Greet Ampliatus, my dear friend in the Lord. 
9 Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and my dear friend Stachys. 
10 Greet Apelles, who is approved in Christ. Greet those of the household of Aristobulus. 
11 Greet Herodion my compatriot. Greet those of the household of Narcissus who are in the Lord. 
12 Greet Tryphena and Tryphosa, the laborers in the Lord. Greet Persis, the dear friend who has worked hard in the Lord. 
13 Greet Rufus, the chosen one in the Lord, and his mother and mine. 
14 Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers with them. 
15 Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them. 
16 Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
17 Now I exhort you, brothers, to look out for those who cause dissensions and temptations contrary to the teaching which you learned, and stay away from them. 
18 For such people do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own stomach, and by smooth speech and flattery they deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting. 
19 For the report of your obedience has reached to all; therefore I am rejoicing over you, and I want you to be wise toward what is good, but innocent toward what is evil. 
20 And in a short time the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
21 Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, and Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my compatriots.
22 I, Tertius, the one who wrote this letter, greet you in the Lord.
23 Gaius, my host and the host of the whole church, greets you. Erastus the city treasurer greets you, and Quartus the brother.
24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all of you. Amen.


