1 Consequently, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. 
2 For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set you free from the law of sin and death. 
3 For what was impossible for the law, in that it was weak through the flesh, God did. By sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and concerning sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, 
4 in order that the requirement of the law would be fulfilled in us, who do not live according to the flesh but according to the Spirit. 
5 For those who are living according to the flesh are intent on the things of the flesh, but those who are living according to the Spirit are intent on the things of the Spirit. 
6 For the mindset of the flesh is death, but the mindset of the Spirit is life and peace, 
7 because the mindset of the flesh is enmity toward God, for it is not subjected to the law of God, for it is not able to do so, 
8 and those who are in the flesh are not able to please God.
9 But you are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God lives in you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, this person does not belong to him. 
10 But if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the Spirit is life because of righteousness. 
11 And if the Spirit of the one who raised Jesus from the dead lives in you, the one who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also make alive your mortal bodies through his Spirit who lives in you.
12 So then, brothers, we are obligated not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. 
13 For if you live according to the flesh, you are going to die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. 
14 For all those who are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. 
15 For you have not received a spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received the Spirit of adoption, by whom we cry out, "Abba! Father!" 
16 The Spirit himself confirms to our spirit that we are children of God, 
17 and if children, also heirs—heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer together with him so that we may also be glorified together with him.
18 For I consider that the sufferings of the present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is about to be revealed to us. 
19 For the eagerly expecting creation awaits eagerly the revelation of the sons of God. 
20 For the creation has been subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of the one who subjected it, in hope 
21 that the creation itself also will be set free from its servility to decay, into the glorious freedom of the children of God. 
22 For we know that the whole creation groans together and suffers agony together until now. 
23 Not only this, but we ourselves also, having the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves while we await eagerly our adoption, the redemption of our body. 
24 For in hope we were saved, but hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? 
25 But if we hope for what we do not see, we await it eagerly with patient endurance.
26 And likewise also, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know how to pray as one ought, but the Spirit himself intercedes for us with unexpressed groanings. 
27 And the one who searches our hearts knows what the mindset of the Spirit is, because he intercedes on behalf of the saints according to the will of God. 
28 And we know that all things work together for good for those who love God, for those who are called according to his purpose, 
29 because those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, so that he should be the firstborn among many brothers. 
30 And those whom he predestined, these he also called, and those whom he called, these he also justified, and those whom he justified, these he also glorified.
31 What then shall we say about these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? 
32 Indeed, he who did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, together with him, freely give us all things? 
33 Who will bring charges against God's elect? God is the one who justifies. 
34 Who is the one who condemns? Christ is the one who died, and more than that, who was raised, who is also at the right hand of God, who also intercedes for us. 
35 Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Will affliction or distress or persecution or hunger or lack of sufficient clothing or danger or the sword? 
36 Just as it is written, "On account of you we are being put to death the whole day long; we are considered as sheep for slaughter."
37 No, but in all these things we prevail completely through the one who loved us. 
38 For I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, 
39 nor height, nor depth, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.