1 And when the Pharisees and Sadducees came to test him, they asked him to show them a sign from heaven. 
2 So he answered and said to them, "When evening comes you say, 'It will be fair weather because the sky is red,' 
3 and early in the morning, 'Today it will be stormy weather, because the sky is red and darkening.' You know how to evaluate correctly the appearance of the sky, but you are not able to evaluate the signs of the times. 
4 An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, and a sign will not be given to it except the sign of Jonah!" And he left them and went away.
5 And when the disciples arrived at the other side, they had forgotten to take bread. 
6 And Jesus said to them, "Watch out for and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees!" 
7 So they were discussing this among themselves, saying, "It is because we did not take bread." 
8 But knowing this, Jesus said, "Why are you discussing among yourselves that you did not take bread, you of little faith? 
9 Do you not yet understand or do you not remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you took up? 
10 Or the seven loaves for the four thousand and how many baskets you took up? 
11 How do you not understand that I did not speak to you about bread? But beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees!" 
12 Then they understood that he did not say to beware of the leaven of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
13 Now when Jesus came to the region of Caesarea Philippi, he began asking his disciples, saying, "Who do people say that the Son of Man is?" 
14 And they said, Some say John the Baptist, but others Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets." 
15 He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" 
16 And Simon Peter answered and said, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God!" 
17 And Jesus answered and said to him, "Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah, because flesh and blood did not reveal this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. 
18 And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of Hades will not overpower it! 
19 I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you release on earth will be released in heaven." 
20 Then he commanded the disciples that they should tell no one that he was the Christ.
21 From that time on Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised on the third day. 
22 And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, God forbid, Lord! This will never happen to you!" 
23 But he turned around and said to Peter, "Get behind me, Satan! You are a cause for stumbling to me, because you are not intent on the things of God, but the things of people!"
24 Then Jesus said to his disciples, "If anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. 
25 For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life on account of me will find it. 
26 For what will a person be benefited if he gains the whole world but forfeits his life? Or what will a person give in exchange for his life? 
27 For the Son of Man is going to come in the glory of his Father with his angels, and at that time he will reward each one according to what he has done. 
28 Truly I say to you, that there are some of those standing here who will never experience death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom."