1 And when he came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. 
2 And behold, a leper approached and worshiped him, saying, "Lord, if you are willing, you are able to make me clean." 
3 And extending his hand he touched him, saying, "I am willing, be clean." And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. 
4 And Jesus said to him, "See that you tell no one, but go, show yourself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony to them."
5 Now when he entered Capernaum, a centurion approached him, appealing to him 
6 and saying, "Lord, my slave is lying paralyzed in my house, terribly tormented!" 
7 And he said to him, "I will come and heal him." 
8 And the centurion answered and said, "Lord, I am not worthy that you should come in under my roof. But only say the word and my slave will be healed. 
9 For I also am a man under authority who has soldiers under me, and I say to this one, 'Go!' and he goes, and to another one, 'Come!' and he comes, and to my slave, 'Do this!' and he does it."
10 Now when Jesus heard this, he was astonished, and said to those who were following him, "Truly I say to you, I have found such great faith with no one in Israel. 
11 But I say to you that many will come from east and west and be seated at the banquet with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. 
12 But the sons of the kingdom will be thrown out into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth!" 
13 And Jesus said to the centurion, "Go, as you have believed it will be done for you." And the slave was healed at that hour.
14 And when Jesus came into Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law lying down and suffering with a fever. 
15 And he touched her hand and the fever left her, and she got up and began to serve him.
16 Now when it was evening, they brought to him many who were demon-possessed, and he expelled the spirits with a word. And he healed all those who were sick, 
17 in order that what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled, who said, "He himself took away our sicknesses, and carried away our diseases."
18 Now when Jesus saw many crowds around him, he gave orders to depart to the other side. 
19 And a scribe approached and said to him, "Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go!" 
20 And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have dens and birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head." 
21 And another of the disciples said to him, "Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father." 
22 But Jesus said to him, "Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead!"
23 And as he got into the boat, his disciples followed him. 
24 And behold, a great storm arose on the sea, so that the boat was being inundated by the waves, but he himself was asleep. 
25 And they came and woke him, saying, "Lord, save us! We are perishing!" 
26 And he said to them, "Why are you fearful, you of little faith?" Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea and there was a great calm. 
27 And the men were astonished, saying, "What sort of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?"
28 And when he came to the other side, to the region of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men coming from among the tombs met him, very violent, so that no one was able to pass by along that road. 
29 And behold, they cried out, saying, "What do you have to do with us, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?" 
30 Now a long way from them a large herd of pigs was feeding. 
31 So the demons implored him, saying, "If you are going to expel us, send us into the herd of pigs." 
32 And he said to them, "Go!" So they departed and went into the pigs, and behold, the whole herd rushed headlong down the steep slope into the sea and drowned in the water. 
33 Now the herdsmen fled and went into the town and reported everything, including the things concerning the demon-possessed men. 
34 And behold, the whole town came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they implored him that he would depart from their region.