1 Now after the Sabbath, at the dawning on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to view the tomb. 
2 And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came up and rolled away the stone and sat down on it. 
3 Now his appearance was like lightning and his clothing white as snow. 
4 And the guards trembled from the fear of him and became like dead men. 
5 But the angel answered and said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified. 
6 He is not here, for he has been raised, just as he said. Come, see the place where he was lying. 
7 And go quickly, tell his disciples, 'He has been raised from the dead, and behold, he is going ahead of you into Galilee. You will see him there.' Behold, I have told you." 
8 And they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples. 
9 And behold, Jesus met them, saying, "Greetings!" And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshiped him. 
10 Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid! Go tell my brothers that they should go to Galilee, and there they will see me."
11 And while they were going, behold, some of the guard of soldiers went into the city and reported to the chief priests everything that had happened. 
12 And after they had assembled with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave a rather large sum of money to the soldiers, 
13 telling them, "Say 'His disciples came during the night and stole him while we were sleeping.' 
14 And if this matter is heard before the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble." 
15 So they took the money and did as they were told, and spread abroad this report among the Jews until this very day.
16 So the eleven disciples proceeded to Galilee, to the mountain which Jesus had designated for them. 
17 And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. 
18 And Jesus approached and spoke to them, saying, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. 
19 Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, 
20 teaching them to observe everything I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you all the days until the end of the age."