1 Let love of the brethren continue. 
2 Forget not to show love unto strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. 
3 Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; them that are ill-treated, as being yourselves also in the body. 
4 Let marriage be had in honor among all, and let the bed be undefiled: for fornicators and adulterers God will judge. 
5 Be ye free from the love of money; content with such things as ye have: for himself hath said, I will in no wise fail thee, neither will I in any wise forsake thee. 
6 So that with good courage we say, The Lord is my helper; I will not fear: What shall man do unto me?
7 Remember them that had the rule over you, men that spake unto you the word of God; and considering the issue of their life, imitate their faith. 
8 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day, yea and for ever. 
9 Be not carried away by divers and strange teachings: for it is good that the heart be established by grace; not by meats, wherein they that occupied themselves were not profited. 
10 We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat that serve the tabernacle. 
11 For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin, are burned without the camp. 
12 Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered without the gate. 
13 Let us therefore go forth unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach. 
14 For we have not here an abiding city, but we seek after the city which is to come. 
15 Through him then let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips which make confession to his name. 
16 But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. 
17 Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit to them: for they watch in behalf of your souls, as they that shall give account; that they may do this with joy, and not with grief: for this were unprofitable for you.
18 Pray for us: for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring to live honorably in all things. 
19 And I exhort you the more exceedingly to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
20 Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal covenant, even our Lord Jesus, 
21 make you perfect in every good thing to do his will, working in us that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
22 But I exhort you, brethren, bear with the word of exhortation: for I have written unto you in few words. 
23 Know ye that our brother Timothy hath been set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
24 Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you.
25 Grace be with you all. Amen.