1 Because of this, since we have this ministry, just as we have been shown mercy, we do not lose heart, 
2 but we have renounced shameful hidden things, not behaving with craftiness or adulterating the word of God, but with the open proclamation of the truth commending ourselves to every person's conscience before God. 
3 But if indeed our gospel is veiled, it is veiled among those who are perishing, 
4 among whom the god of this age has blinded the minds of the unbelievers, so that they would not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. 
5 For we do not proclaim ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your slaves for the sake of Jesus. 
6 For God who said, "Light will shine out of darkness," is the one who has shined in our hearts for the enlightenment of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ.
7 But we have this treasure in earthenware jars, in order that the extraordinary degree of the power may be from God and not from us. 
8 We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not despairing; 
9 persecuted, but not abandoned; struck down, but not destroyed; 
10 always carrying around the death of Jesus in our body, in order that the life of Jesus may also be revealed in our body. 
11 For we who are alive are continually being handed over to death because of Jesus, in order that the life of Jesus may also be revealed in our mortal flesh. 
12 So then, death is at work in us, but life in you. 
13 But because we have the same spirit of faith in accordance with what is written, "I believed, therefore I spoke," we also believe, therefore we also speak, 
14 because we know that the one who raised Jesus will also raise us together with Jesus and present us together with you. 
15 For all these things are for your sake, in order that the grace that is increasing through the many may cause thanksgiving to abound to the glory of God.
16 Therefore we do not lose heart, but even if our outer person is being destroyed, yet our inner person is being renewed day after day. 
17 For our momentary light affliction is producing in us an eternal weight of glory beyond all measure and proportion, 
18 because we are not looking at what is seen, but what is not seen. For what is seen is temporary, but what is not seen is eternal.