1 For I have decided this for myself, not to come to you again in sorrow. 
2 For if I cause you sorrow, then who will make me glad except the one who is caused to be sad by me? 
3 And I wrote this very thing in order that when I came, I would not experience sorrow from those who ought to have made me glad, because I have confidence about you all, that my joy belongs to all of you. 
4 For out of great distress and anguish of heart I wrote to you through many tears, not so that you may be caused to be sad, but so that you may know the love that I have especially for you.
5 But if anyone has caused sorrow, he has not caused me sorrow, but to some degree—in order not to say too much—to all of you. 
6 This punishment by the majority is sufficient for such a person. 
7 So then, you should rather forgive and comfort him, lest somehow this person should be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. 
8 Therefore I urge you to confirm your love for him. 
9 Because for this reason also I wrote, in order that I could know your proven character, whether you are obedient in everything. 
10 Now to whomever you forgive anything, I also do; for indeed, whatever I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, it is for your sake in the presence of Christ, 
11 in order that we may not be exploited by Satan (for we are not ignorant of his schemes).
12 Now when I arrived in Troas for the gospel of Christ and a door was opened for me by the Lord, 
13 I did not experience rest in my spirit, because I did not find Titus my brother, but saying farewell to them, I departed for Macedonia. 
14 But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumphal procession in Christ, and who reveals the fragrance of the knowledge of him through us in every place. 
15 For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing, 
16 to those on the one hand an odor from death to death, and to those on the other hand a fragrance from life to life. And who is qualified for these things? 
17 For we are not like the majority who peddle the word of God, but as from pure motives—but as from God—we speak before God in Christ.