1 And the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah a second time while he was still held back in the courtyard of the guard, saying, 
2 "Thus says Yahweh who made the earth, Yahweh who formed it to establish it, Yahweh is his name: 
3 'Call to me, and I will answer you, and I will tell you great things and inaccessible things that you have not known.' 
4 For thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, that were torn down to make a defense against the siege ramps and against the sword: 
5 'They are coming to fight against the Chaldeans, and to fill them with the corpses of the people whom I will strike in my anger and in my wrath, for whom I have hidden my face from this city because of all their wickedness. 
6 Look, I am going to bring healing and health to it, and I will heal them, and I will reveal to them abundance of peace and reliability. 
7 And I will restore the fortunes of Judah and the fortunes of Israel, and I will rebuild them as in the beginning. 
8 And I will cleanse them from all their guilt that they sinned against me, and I will forgive all their iniquities that they sinned against me, and that they rebelled against me. 
9 And it will be to me a name of jubilation, a praise, and a glory before all the nations of the earth, who will hear all the good that I will do for them, and they will fear, and they will tremble because of all the good, and because of all the prosperity that I will provide for it.'
10 "Thus says Yahweh: 'Again will be heard in this place, of which you are saying, "It is a waste, without people and without animals," in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without people and without inhabitants and without animals, 
11 the voice of jubilation, and the voice of joy, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the voices of those who say, "Praise Yahweh of hosts, for Yahweh is good, for his loyal love is forever," the voices of those who bring thank offerings to the house of Yahweh, for I will restore the fortunes of the land as in the beginning,' says Yahweh. 
12 Thus says Yahweh of hosts: 'Again there will be in this waste place, without people and animals, and in all its towns, pasture for shepherds allowing their flock to lie down. 
13 In the towns of the hill country, in the towns of the Shephelah, and in the towns of the Negev, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the surroundings of Jerusalem, and in the towns of Judah, flocks will again pass under the hands of the counter,' says Yahweh.
14 'Look, days are coming,' declares Yahweh, 'and I will fulfill the good promise that I promised to the house of Israel and to the house of Judah. 
15 In those days and in that time I will make a branch of righteousness sprout for David, and he will execute justice and righteousness in the land. 
16 In those days Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell safely, and this is what they shall call it: "Yahweh is our righteousness."' 
17 For thus says Yahweh: 'A man who sits on the throne of the house of Israel will not be cut off for David. 
18 And for the priests, a man from the Levites who offers burnt offerings and who burns grain offerings and who brings sacrifices will not be cut off before me forever.'"
19 And the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying, 
20 "Thus says Yahweh: 'If you could break my covenant with the day, and my covenant with the night, so that day and night would not come at their time, 
21 then my covenant could be broken with David my servant, from having a son who could rule on his throne, and with the Levites, the priests, my ministers. 
22 As the host of heaven cannot be counted, and the sand of the sea cannot be measured, so I will make numerous the offspring of David my servant and the Levites who minister to me.'" 
23 And the word of Yahweh came to Jeremiah, saying, 
24 "Have you not seen how these people speak, saying, 'The two clans whom Yahweh chose, he has also rejected them'? Thus they spurn my people from being a nation before them any longer. 
25 Thus says Yahweh: 'If my covenant with day and with night, the regulations of heaven and earth, I had not established, 
26 then the offspring of Jacob and David my servant I would reject, from choosing rulers from his offspring over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; for I will restore their fortunes and I will have compassion on them.'"