1 Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need of anything to be written to you, 
2 for you yourselves well know that the day of the Lord is coming in the same way as a thief in the night. 
3 Whenever they say "Peace and security," then sudden destruction will overtake them like the birth pains of a pregnant woman, and they will not possibly escape. 
4 But you, brothers, are not in the darkness, so that the day should catch you like a thief, 
5 for you are all sons of light and sons of day. We are not of the night nor of darkness.
6 So then, we must not sleep like the rest, but must be on the alert and be self-controlled. 
7 For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at night. 
8 But because we are of the day, we must be sober, by putting on the breastplate of faith and love and as a helmet the hope of salvation, 
9 because God did not appoint us for wrath, but for the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, 
10 who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we will live at the same time with him. 
11 Therefore encourage one another and build up each other, just as indeed you are doing.
12 Now we ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and rule over you in the Lord and admonish you, 
13 and to esteem them beyond all measure in love, because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
14 And we urge you, brothers, admonish the disorderly, console the discouraged, help the sick, be patient toward all people. 
15 See to it that no one pays back evil for evil to anyone, but always pursue good toward one another and toward all people.
16 Rejoice always, 
17 pray constantly, 
18 give thanks in everything; for this is the will of God for you in Christ Jesus. 
19 Do not quench the Spirit. 
20 Do not despise prophecies, 
21 but examine all things; hold fast to what is good. 
22 Abstain from every form of evil. 
23 Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your spirit and soul and body be kept complete, blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
24 The one who calls you is faithful, who also will do this.
25 Brothers, pray for us. 
26 Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. 
27 I adjure you by the Lord, have this letter read aloud to all the brothers. 
28 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.