1 When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus makes and baptises more disciples than John
2 (however, Jesus himself did not baptise, but his disciples),
3 he left Judaea and went away again unto Galilee.
4 And he must needs pass through Samaria.
5 He comes therefore to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near to the land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph.
6 Now a fountain of Jacob's was there; Jesus therefore, being wearied with the way he had come, sat just as he was at the fountain. It was about the sixth hour.
7 A woman comes out of Samaria to draw water. Jesus says to her, Give me to drink
8 (for his disciples had gone away into the city that they might buy provisions).
9 The Samaritan woman therefore says to him, How dost thou, being a Jew, ask to drink of me who am a Samaritan woman? for Jews have no intercourse with Samaritans.
10 Jesus answered and said to her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that says to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.
11 The woman says to him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: whence then hast thou the living water?
12 Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, and his sons, and his cattle?
13 Jesus answered and said to her, Every one who drinks of this water shall thirst again;
14 but whosoever drinks of the water which I shall give him shall never thirst for ever, but the water which I shall give him shall become in him a fountain of water, springing up into eternal life.
15 The woman says to him, Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst nor come here to draw.
16 Jesus says to her, Go, call thy husband, and come here.
17 The woman answered and said, I have not a husband. Jesus says to her, Thou hast well said, I have not a husband;
18 for thou hast had five husbands, and he whom now thou hast is not thy husband: this thou hast spoken truly.
19 The woman says to him, Sir, I see that thou art a prophet.
20 Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where one must worship.
21 Jesus says to her, Woman, believe me,  hour is coming when ye shall neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father.
22 Ye worship ye know not what; we worship what we know, for salvation is of the Jews.
23 But  hour is coming and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth; for also the Father seeks such as his worshippers.
24 God  a spirit; and they who worship him must worship  in spirit and truth.
25 The woman says to him, I know that Messiah is coming, who is called Christ; when *he* comes he will tell us all things.
26 Jesus says to her, I who speak to thee am .
27 And upon this came his disciples, and wondered that he spoke with a woman; yet no one said, What seekest thou? or, Why speakest thou with her?
28 The woman then left her waterpot and went away into the city, and says to the men,
29 Come, see a man who told me all things I had ever done: is not he the Christ?
30 They went out of the city and came to him.
31 But meanwhile the disciples asked him saying, Rabbi, eat.
32 But he said to them, I have food to eat which ye do not know.
33 The disciples therefore said to one another, Has any one brought him  to eat?
34 Jesus says to them, My food is that I should do the will of him that has sent me, and that I should finish his work.
35 Do not ye say, that there are yet four months and the harvest comes? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes and behold the fields, for they are already white to harvest.
36 He that reaps receives wages and gathers fruit unto life eternal, that both he that sows and he that reaps may rejoice together.
37 For in this is  the true saying, It is one who sows and another who reaps.
38 I have sent you to reap that on which ye have not laboured; others have laboured, and ye have entered into their labours.
39 But many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him because of the word of the woman who bore witness, He told me all things that I had ever done.
40 When therefore the Samaritans came to him they asked him to abide with them, and he abode there two days.
41 And more a great deal believed on account of his word;
42 and they said to the woman, [It is] no longer on account of thy saying that we believe, for we have heard him ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world.
43 But after the two days he went forth thence and went away into Galilee,
44 for Jesus himself bore witness that a prophet has no honour in his own country.
45 When therefore he came into Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem during the feast, for they also went to the feast.
46 He came therefore again to Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain courtier in Capernaum whose son was sick.
47 He, having heard that Jesus had come out of Judaea into Galilee, went to him and asked  that he would come down and heal his son, for he was about to die.
48 Jesus therefore said to him, Unless ye see signs and wonders ye will not believe.
49 The courtier says to him, Sir, come down ere my child die.
50 Jesus says to him, Go, thy son lives. And the man believed the word which Jesus said to him, and went his way.
51 But already, as he was going down, his servants met him and brought  word saying, Thy child lives.
52 He inquired therefore from them the hour at which he got better. And they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
53 The father therefore knew that [it was] in that hour in which Jesus said to him, Thy son lives; and he believed, himself and his whole house.
54 This second sign again did Jesus, being come out of Judaea into Galilee.