1 These things Jesus spoke, and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son may glorify thee;
2 as thou hast given him authority over all flesh, that [as to] all that thou hast given to him, he should give them life eternal.
3 And this is the eternal life, that they should know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent.
4 I have glorified *thee* on the earth, I have completed the work which thou gavest me that I should do it;
5 and now glorify *me*, *thou* Father, along with thyself, with the glory which I had along with thee before the world was.
6 I have manifested thy name to the men whom thou gavest me out of the world. They were thine, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word.
7 Now they have known that all things that thou hast given me are of thee;
8 for the words which thou hast given me I have given them, and they have received , and have known truly that I came out from thee, and have believed that thou sentest me.
9 I demand concerning them; I do not demand concerning the world, but concerning those whom thou hast given me, for they are thine,
10 (and all that is mine is thine, and  that is thine mine,) and I am glorified in them.
11 And I am no longer in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name which thou hast given me, that they may be one as we.
12 When I was with them I kept them in thy name; those thou hast given me I have guarded, and not one of them has perished, but the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled.
13 And now I come to thee. And these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in them.
14 I have given them thy word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
15 I do not demand that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them out of evil.
16 They are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
17 Sanctify them by the truth: thy word is truth.
18 As thou hast sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world;
19 and I sanctify myself for them, that they also may be sanctified by truth.
20 And I do not demand for these only, but also for those who believe on me through their word;
21 that they may be all one, as thou, Father,  in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.
22 And the glory which thou hast given me I have given them, that they may be one, as we are one;
23 I in them and thou in me, that they may be perfected into one  that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and  thou hast loved them as thou hast loved me.
24 Father, [as to] those whom thou hast given me, I desire that where I am they also may be with me, that they may behold my glory which thou hast given me, for thou lovedst me before  foundation of  world.
25 Righteous Father,—and the world has not known thee, but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me.
26 And I have made known to them thy name, and will make  known; that the love with which thou hast loved me may be in them and I in them.