1 Now these were the people of the province who came up from the captivity of the exile whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon carried captive to Babylonia. They returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his own city. 
2 They came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, and Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel: 
3 the descendants of Parosh, two thousand one hundred and seventy-two; 
4 the descendants of Shephatiah, three hundred and seventy-two; 
5 the descendants of Arah, seven hundred and seventy-five; 
6 the descendants of Pahath-moab, particularly the descendants of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve; 
7 the descendants of Elam, one thousand two hundred and fifty-four; 
8 the descendants of Zattu, nine hundred and forty-five; 
9 the descendants of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty; 
10 the descendants of Bani, six hundred and forty-two; 
11 the descendants of Bebai, six hundred and twenty-three; 
12 the descendants of Azgad, one thousand two hundred and twenty-two; 
13 the descendants of Adonikam, six hundred and sixty-six; 
14 the descendants of Bigvai, two thousand fifty-six; 
15 the descendants of Adin, four hundred and fifty-four; 
16 the descendants of Ater, particularly of Hezekiah, ninety-eight; 
17 the descendants of Bezai, three hundred and twenty-three; 
18 the descendants of Jorah, one hundred and twelve; 
19 the descendants of Hashum, two hundred and twenty-three; 
20 the descendants of Gibbar, ninety-five; 
21 the people of Bethlehem, one hundred and twenty-three; 
22 the men of Netophah, fifty-six; 
23 the men of Anathoth, one hundred and twenty-eight; 
24 the people of Azmaveth, forty-two; 
25 the people of Kiriath Αrim, Kephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty-three; 
26 the people of Ramah and Geba, six hundred and twenty-one; 
27 the men of Micmash, one hundred and twenty-two; 
28 the men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred and twenty-three; 
29 the people of Nebo, fifty-two; 
30 the people of Magbish, one hundred and fifty-six; 
31 the people of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred and fifty-four; 
32 the people of Harim, three hundred and twenty; 
33 the people of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred and twenty-five; 
34 the people of Jericho, three hundred and forty-five; 
35 the people of Senaah, three thousand six hundred and thirty.
36 The priests: the descendants of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred and seventy-three; 
37 the descendants of Immer, one thousand fifty-two; 
38 the descendants of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred and forty-seven; 
39 the descendants of Harim, one thousand seventeen.
40 The Levites: the descendants of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the descendants of Hodaviah, seventy-four.
41 The singers: the descendants of Asaph, one hundred and twenty-eight.
42 The descendants of the gatekeepers: the descendants of Shallum, the descendants of Ater, the descendants of Talmon, the descendants of Akkub, the descendants of Hatita, and the descendants of Shobai; in total one hundred and thirty-nine.
43 The temple servants: the descendants of Ziha, the descendants of Hasupha, the descendants of Tabbaoth, 
44 the descendants of Keros, the descendants of Siaha, the descendants of Padon, 
45 the descendants of Lebanah, the descendants of Hagabah, the descendants of Akkub, 
46 the descendants of Hagab, the descendants of Shamlai, the descendants of Hanan, 
47 the descendants of Giddel, the descendants of Gahar, the descendants of Reaiah, 
48 the descendants of Rezin, the descendants of Nekoda, the descendants of Gazzam, 
49 the descendants of Uzza, the descendants of Paseah, the descendants of Besai, 
50 the descendants of Asnah, the descendants of Meunim, the descendants of Nephisim, 
51 the descendants of Bakbuk, the descendants of Hakupha, the descendants of Harhur, 
52 the descendants of Bazluth, the descendants of Mehida, the descendants of Harsha, 
53 the descendants of Barkos, the descendants of Sisera, the descendants of Temah, 
54 the descendants of Neziah, and the descendants of Hatipha.
55 The descendants of Solomon's servants: the descendants of Sotai, the descendants of Hassophereth, the descendants of Peruda, 
56 the descendants of Jaalah, the descendants of Darkon, the descendants of Giddel, 
57 the descendants of Shephatiah, the descendants of Hattil, the descendants of Pochereth-hazzebaim, and the descendants of Ami.
58 All the temple servants and the descendants of Solomon's servants were three hundred and ninety-two.
59 Now these were the ones who came up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, but they were not able to prove their fathers' household and their descent, if they were from Israel: 
60 the descendants of Delaiah, the descendants of Tobiah, and the descendants of Nekoda, six hundred and fifty-two. 
61 And from the descendants of the priests: the descendants of Habaiah, the descendants of Hakkoz, and the descendants of Barzillai (who took a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called by their name). 
62 These sought their record in the genealogy records, but they were not found, and were excluded from the priesthood as unclean. 
63 The governor said to them that they could not eat from the holy food of the sanctuary until there was present a priest for the Urim and Thummim.
64 The whole assembly together was forty-two thousand three hundred and sixty, 
65 apart from their male and female servants, of whom were seven thousand three hundred and thirty-seven; and they had two hundred male and female singers. 
66 Their horses numbered seven hundred and thirty-six, their mules numbered two hundred and forty-five, 
67 their camels numbered four hundred and thirty-five, their donkeys numbered six thousand seven hundred and twenty.
68 When some of the heads of families came to the house of Yahweh that is in Jerusalem, they gave freewill offerings for the house of God to erect it on its place. 
69 According to their ability they gave to the treasury room for the work sixty-one thousand darics of gold, five thousand minas of silver, and one hundred priestly tunics.
70 The priests, the Levites, and some of the people lived in Jerusalem, and the singers, the gatekeepers, and the temple servants lived in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.