1 Now concerning the collection for the saints: just as I gave directions about it to the churches of Galatia, so you do also. 
2 On the first day of the week, each one of you put aside something, saving up to whatever extent he has prospered, in order that whenever I come, at that time collections do not take place. 
3 And whenever I arrive, whomever you approve by letters, I will send these to take your gift to Jerusalem. 
4 And if it is worthwhile for me to go also, they will travel with me.
5 But I will come to you whenever I go through Macedonia (for I am going through Macedonia), 
6 and perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, so that you may send me on my way wherever I may go. 
7 For I do not want to see you now in passing, for I hope to remain some time with you, if the Lord allows it. 
8 But I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost, 
9 for a great and effective door has opened for me, and there are many opponents.
10 But if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without cause to fear, for he is carrying out the Lord's work, as I also am. 
11 Therefore do not let anyone disdain him, but send him on his way in peace in order that he may come to me, for I am expecting him with the brothers.
12 Now concerning Apollos our brother, I urged him many times that he should come to you with the brothers, and he was not at all willing that he should come now, but he will come whenever he has an opportunity.
13 Be on the alert, stand firm in the faith, act courageously, be strong. 
14 All your actions must be done in love.
15 Now I urge you, brothers—you know about the household of Stephanas, that they are the first fruits of Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the ministry for the saints—
16 that you also be subject to such people, and to all those who work together and labor. 
17 Now I rejoice over the arrival of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because these make up for your absence, 
18 for they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore recognize such people.
19 The churches of the province of Asia greet you. Aquila and Prisca greet you in the Lord many times, together with the church in their house. 
20 All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
21 The greeting is by my hand—Paul's. 
22 If anyone does not love the Lord, let him be accursed. O Lord, come!
23 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you. 
24 My love be with all of you in Christ Jesus.