1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his loyal love is forever.
2 Let the redeemed of Yahweh declare it, those whom he has redeemed from the hand of the enemy
3 and gathered from the lands, from east and from west, from north and from south.
4 They wandered in the wilderness, in a desert. They could find no way to a city to inhabit.
5 Hungry and thirsty, their soul grew faint within them.
6 Then they cried out to Yahweh in their trouble. He delivered them from their distresses
7 and led them by a straight way to get to a city to inhabit.
8 Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his loyal love, and his wonderful deeds for the children of humankind,
9 for he satisfies the longing soul, and the hungry soul he fills with good.
10 Those who sat in darkness and gloom, prisoners of misery and iron—
11 because they rebelled against the words of God and spurned the counsel of the Most High,
12 he therefore humbled their heart with trouble. They stumbled and there was no helper.
13 Then they called to Yahweh for help in their trouble; he saved them from their distresses.
14 He brought them out of darkness and gloom, and tore off their bonds.
15 Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his loyal love and his wonderful deeds for the children of humankind,
16 for he shatters the doors of bronze, and cuts through the bars of iron.
17 Fools, because of their rebellious way and their iniquities, were afflicted.
18 Their soul abhorred all food, and they approached the gates of death.
19 Then they called to Yahweh for help in their trouble. He saved them from their distresses.
20 He sent his word and healed them, and he delivered them from their pits.
21 Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his loyal love, and his wonderful deeds for the children of humankind,
22 and let them offer sacrifices of thanksgiving, and tell of his works with rejoicing.
23 Those who went down to the sea into ships, doing business on the high seas,
24 they saw the works of Yahweh, and his wonderful deeds in the deep.
25 For he spoke and raised up a stormy wind, and it whipped up its waves.
26 They rose to the heavens; they plunged to the depths. Their soul melted in their calamity.
27 They reeled and staggered like a drunkard, and they were at their wits' end.
28 Then they cried out to Yahweh in their trouble, and he brought them out of their distresses.
29 He made the storm be still and their waves became calm.
30 Then they were glad because they grew silent, so he guided them to their desired harbor.
31 Let them give thanks to Yahweh for his loyal love and his wonderful deeds for the children of humankind,
32 and let them exalt him in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
33 He turns rivers into a wilderness and springs of water into thirsty ground,
34 a fruitful land into a salty place, because of the evil of its inhabitants.
35 He turns a wilderness into a pool of water and a dry land into springs of water.
36 And he settles the hungry there, so that they may establish a city to inhabit,
37 and sow fields and plant vineyards, that they may yield fruit at harvest.
38 And he blesses them and they multiply greatly, and he does not let their cattle become few.
39 When they become few and they are bent down from the oppression of calamity and grief,
40 he pours contempt on princes and causes them to wander in a trackless waste.
41 But he protects the needy from misery, and he makes their families like a flock.
42 The upright see it and are glad, and all wickedness shuts its mouth.
43 Whoever is wise, then let him observe these things, and let them consider Yahweh's acts of loyal love.