1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his loyal love endures forever.
2 Give thanks to the God of gods, for his loyal love endures forever.
3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords, for his loyal love endures forever.
4 To him who alone does great wonders, for his loyal love endures forever.
5 To him who made the heavens with skill, for his loyal love endures forever.
6 To him who spread out the earth above the waters, for his loyal love endures forever.
7 To him who made the great lights, for his loyal love endures forever.
8 The sun to rule the day, for his loyal love endures forever.
9 The moon and stars to rule the night, for his loyal love endures forever.
10 To him who struck Egypt through their firstborn, for his loyal love endures forever.
11 And he brought Israel out from among them, for his loyal love endures forever.
12 With a strong hand and an outstretched arm, for his loyal love endures forever.
13 To him who divided the Red Sea in two, for his loyal love endures forever.
14 And he let Israel cross over through the midst of it, for his loyal love endures forever.
15 But he tossed Pharaoh and his army into the Red Sea, for his loyal love endures forever.
16 To him who led his people through the wilderness, for his loyal love endures forever.
17 To him who struck great kings, for his loyal love endures forever.
18 And he killed mighty kings, for his loyal love endures forever.
19 Sihon the king of the Amorites, for his loyal love endures forever.
20 And Og the king of Bashan, for his loyal love endures forever.
21 And he gave their land as an inheritance, for his loyal love endures forever.
22 An inheritance to Israel his servant, for his loyal love endures forever.
23 Who remembered us in our low estate, for his loyal love endures forever.
24 And he rescued us from our enemies, for his loyal love endures forever.
25 The one who gives food to all flesh, for his loyal love endures forever.
26 Give thanks to the God of heaven, for his loyal love endures forever.