1 Give thanks to Yahweh for he is good, for his loyal love is forever.
2 Let Israel say, "His loyal love is forever."
3 Let the house of Aaron say, "His loyal love is forever."
4 Let those who fear Yahweh say, "His loyal love is forever."
5 Out of my distress I called to Yah. Yah answered me, setting me in a broad place.
6 Yahweh is for me; I do not fear. What can mere humans do to me?
7 Yahweh is for me as my helper, and so I will look in triumph on those who hate me.
8 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh than to trust in humans.
9 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh than to trust princes.
10 All nations surrounded me. In the name of Yahweh I opposed them indeed.
11 They surrounded me; yes, they surrounded me. In the name of Yahweh I opposed them indeed.
12 They surrounded me like bees; they were extinguished like a fire of thorns. In the name of Yahweh I opposed them indeed.
13 You pushed me hard to make me fall, but Yahweh helped me.
14 Yah is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation.
15 The sound of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; the right hand of Yahweh has done valiantly.
16 The right hand of Yahweh has exalted; the right hand of Yahweh has done valiantly.
17 I will not die but live, and tell of the works of Yah.
18 Yah has disciplined me severely, but he did not consign me to death.
19 Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to Yah.
20 This is the gate of Yahweh, through which the righteous will enter.
21 I will give thanks to you for you have answered me, and you have become my salvation.
22 The stone the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone.
23 This is from Yahweh; it is wonderful in our eyes.
24 This is the day Yahweh has worked; let us rejoice and be glad in him.
25 O Yahweh, please save; O Yahweh, please grant success.
26 Blessed is he who comes in the name of Yahweh. We bless you from the house of Yahweh.
27 Yahweh is God, and he has given us light. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar.
28 You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God; I will exalt you.
29 Give thanks to Yahweh for he is good, for his loyal love is forever.