1 Do not fret because of evildoers; do not be envious of doers of wickedness.
2 For like the grass they will dry up quickly, and like green vegetation they will wither.
3 Trust Yahweh and do good. Abide in the land and feed on faithfulness.
4 Take pleasure in Yahweh as well, and he will give to you the requests of your heart.
5 Commit to Yahweh your way; Trust also on him and he will act.
6 Then he will bring forth your righteousness like the light, and your justice like the noonday.
7 Be quiet before Yahweh and wait for him. Do not fret about one who succeeds in his way, about a man making plots.
8 Refrain from anger and forsake wrath. Do not fret; it only brings evil.
9 For evildoers will be cut off, but those who wait for Yahweh— they will possess the land.
10 And yet a little while and the wicked will not be, and you will look carefully upon his place, but he will not be.
11 But the afflicted will possess the land, and they will take pleasure in an abundance of peace.
12 The wicked plans evil against the righteous, and gnashes at him with his teeth.
13 The Lord laughs at him, for he sees that his day is coming.
14 The wicked have drawn the sword and have bent their bow to throw down the poor and the needy, to kill those upright in their way.
15 Their sword will enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
16 The little belonging to the righteous is better than the wealth of many wicked.
17 For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but Yahweh supports the righteous.
18 Yahweh knows the days of the blameless, and their inheritance will be forever.
19 They will not be put to shame in distressing times, and in the days of famine they will be satisfied.
20 But the wicked will perish, and the enemies of Yahweh will be like the splendor of the pastures. They vanish; in smoke they vanish.
21 The wicked borrows and does not repay, but the righteous is gracious and gives.
22 For those blessed by him shall possess the land, but those cursed by him shall be cut off.
23 The steps of a man are established by Yahweh, and he takes pleasure in his way.
24 Though he fall, he will not be cast headlong, for Yahweh supports him with his hand.
25 I was a youth, but I am now old; yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread.
26 All the day he is gracious and lends, and his children are a blessing.
27 Turn aside from evil and do good and so abide forever.
28 For Yahweh loves justice and will not forsake his faithful ones. They are protected forever. But the children of the wicked will be cut off.
29 The righteous will possess the land and abide in it forever.
30 The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice.
31 The law of his God is in his heart. His steps will not slip.
32 The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to kill him.
33 Yahweh will not abandon him into his hand, and he will not let him be condemned when he is judged.
34 Wait for Yahweh and keep his way, and he will exalt you to possess the land. When the wicked are cut off, you will see it.
35 I have seen the wicked acting violently and spreading himself out like a luxuriant native tree.
36 Then he passed on and behold, he was not. And I sought him, but he could not be found.
37 Observe the blameless and look at the upright, for there is a future for a man of peace.
38 But transgressors shall be destroyed altogether. The future of the wicked shall be cut off.
39 And the salvation of the righteous is from Yahweh, their refuge in the time of trouble.
40 And Yahweh helps them and he rescues them. He rescues them from the wicked and saves them, because they take refuge in him.