1 Bless Yahweh, O my soul. O Yahweh my God, you are very great. You clothe yourself with splendor and majesty,
2 you who cover yourself with light as with a garment, who stretch out the heavens like a tent curtain,
3 the one who sets beams in the waters for his upper chambers, who makes clouds his chariot, who rides on the wings of the wind,
4 who makes his messengers the winds, his attendants a flame of fire.
5 He established the earth on her foundations, so that it will not be moved forever and ever.
6 You covered it with the deep as with a garment. The waters stood above the mountains.
7 At your rebuke they fled; at the sound of your thunder they ran off.
8 They ascended the mountains and drained though the valleys to the place that you established for them.
9 You set a boundary that they may not cross over, so that they would not return to cover the earth.
10 You are the one who sends forth springs into the valleys; they flow between the mountains.
11 They give drink for every beast of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst.
12 Along them the birds of the heavens abide. From among the branches they sing.
13 You are the one who waters the mountains from his upper chambers. The earth is full with the fruit of your labors:
14 who causes grass to grow for the cattle and herbs for the service of humankind, to bring forth food from the earth,
15 and wine that makes glad the heart of man, so that their faces shine from oil, and bread that strengthens the heart of man.
16 The trees of Yahweh drink their fill, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted,
17 where birds make their nest. The stork has its home in the fir trees.
18 The high mountains are for the wild goats; the cliffs are a refuge for the rock badgers.
19 He made the moon for appointed times; the sun knows its time for setting.
20 You make darkness, and it is night, when all the animals of the forest creep about.
21 The young lions are roaring for the prey and seeking their food from God.
22 When the sun rises, they gather together and lie down in their dens.
23 Humankind goes out to its work, and to its labor until evening.
24 How many are your works, O Yahweh; all of them you have done in wisdom. The earth is full of your creatures.
25 This is the great and wide sea, in which are moving animals without number, living things small and great.
26 There the ships sail. Leviathan is there that you formed to play with.
27 They all wait for you to give them their food at the proper time.
28 You give to them; they gather it. You open your hand, they are filled with what is good.
29 You hide your face, they are terrified. You take away their breath, they die and return to their dust.
30 You send forth your Spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground.
31 May the glory of Yahweh endure forever. May Yahweh be glad in his works,
32 the one who looks at the earth and it quakes, and touches the mountains and they smoke.
33 I will sing to Yahweh throughout my life; I will sing praise to my God while I remain alive.
34 May my meditation be pleasing to him. I will be glad in Yahweh.
35 Let sinners perish completely from the earth, and the wicked not remain alive. Bless Yahweh, O my soul. Praise Yah.