1 Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of Yahweh.
2 Blessed are those who keep his testimonies; they seek him with a whole heart.
3 They also do no wrong; they walk in his ways.
4 You have commanded your precepts, that we should keep them diligently.
5 Oh that my ways were steadfast, to keep your statutes!
6 Then I would not be ashamed when I look to all your commands.
7 I will give you thanks with an upright heart, when I learn your righteous laws.
8 I will heed your statutes; do not utterly forsake me.
9 How can a young man keep his way pure? By taking heed according to your word.
10 With my whole heart I have sought you; do not let me stray from your commands.
11 In my heart I have hidden your word, so that I may not sin against you.
12 Blessed are you, O Yahweh. Teach me your statutes.
13 With my lips I have told of all the ordinances of your mouth.
14 In the way of your testimonies I have rejoiced as I would over all riches.
15 I will meditate on your precepts and look at your ways.
16 I will take delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word.
17 Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live and heed your word.
18 Uncover my eyes, that I may look at wonderful things from your law.
19 I am a sojourner on the earth; do not hide your commands from me.
20 My soul is crushed with longing for your ordinances at all times.
21 You rebuke the arrogant, the accursed, who stray from your commands.
22 Remove from me scorn and contempt, for I have kept your testimonies.
23 Even though princes sit and speak against me, your servant meditates on your statutes.
24 Your testimonies are my delight, my counselors.
25 My soul clings to the dust; revive me according to your word.
26 I told of my ways, and you answered me; teach me your statutes.
27 Make me understand the way of your precepts, that I may meditate on your wonderful things.
28 My soul weeps because of grief; strengthen me according to your word.
29 Remove from me the deceptive way, and graciously give me your law.
30 I have chosen the faithful way; I have set your ordinances before me.
31 I cling to your testimonies; O Yahweh, do not let me be put to shame.
32 I will run the way of your commands, for you will enlarge my heart.
33 Teach me, O Yahweh, the way of your statutes, and I will keep it to the end.
34 Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and heed it with my whole heart.
35 Cause me to walk in the path of your commands, for I delight in it.
36 Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to dishonest gain.
37 Turn away my eyes from looking at what is worthless; revive me in your ways.
38 Fulfill your word to your servant, which is to bring about a reverence for you.
39 Turn away my disgrace that I dread, for your ordinances are good.
40 Look, I have longed for your precepts; revive me in your righteousness.
41 Let your acts of loyal love also come to me, O Yahweh, your salvation according to your word.
42 Then I will have an answer for the one who taunts me, for I trust your word.
43 And do not snatch the word of truth utterly from my mouth, for I hope in your ordinances.
44 So I will heed your law continually, forever and ever.
45 And I will go about freely, for I have sought your precepts.
46 And I will speak of your testimonies before kings, and will not be ashamed.
47 And I will take delight in your commands, which I love.
48 And I will lift up my hands to your commands, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes.
49 Remember your word to your servant, upon which you have caused me to hope.
50 This is my comfort in my misery: that your word preserves my life.
51 The arrogant utterly deride me; I have not turned aside from your law.
52 I remember your ordinances of old, O Yahweh, and I take comfort.
53 Rage seizes me because of the wicked, those who forsake your law.
54 Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning.
55 I remember your name in the night, O Yahweh, and I heed your law.
56 This has been mine, that I have kept your precepts.
57 Yahweh is my portion; I intend to heed your words.
58 I seek your favor with my whole heart; be gracious to me according to your word.
59 I think about my ways, and turn my feet to your testimonies.
60 I hurry and do not delay to heed your commands.
61 The cords of the wicked surround me, but I do not forget your law.
62 In the middle of the night I rise to give you thanks, because of your righteous ordinances.
63 I am a companion of all who fear you and heed your precepts.
64 The earth, O Yahweh, is full of your loyal love. Teach me your statutes.
65 You have dealt well with your servant, O Yahweh, according to your word.
66 Teach me good discernment and knowledge, for I believe your commands.
67 Before I was afflicted, I was going astray, but now I heed your word.
68 You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.
69 The arrogant smear me with lies; I keep your precepts with my whole heart.
70 Their heart is insensitive like fat; As for me, I take delight in your law.
71 It is good for me that I was afflicted, so that I might learn your statutes.
72 The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver coins.
73 Your hands have made me and established me; give me understanding that I may learn your commands.
74 Those who fear you will see me and be glad, because I hope in your word.
75 I know, O Yahweh, that your judgments are right, and that in faithfulness you afflicted me.
76 Please let your loyal love comfort me, according to your word to your servant.
77 Let your mercies come to me, that I may live, for your law is my delight.
78 Let the arrogant be put to shame, because they have wronged me with lies. As for me, I will meditate on your precepts.
79 Let those who fear you turn to me, even those who know your testimonies.
80 May my heart be blameless in your statutes, so that I may not be ashamed.
81 My soul languishes for your salvation; I hope in your word.
82 My eyes long for your word, saying, "When will you comfort me?"
83 For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes.
84 How many are the days of your servant? When will you execute justice against those who persecute me?
85 The arrogant have dug pits for me, which is not according to your law.
86 All your commands are faithful. They persecute me deceitfully; help me!
87 They have almost destroyed me on the earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts.
88 According to your loyal love preserve me alive, so that I may heed the testimony from your mouth.
89 Forever, O Yahweh, your word is settled in heaven.
90 Your faithfulness endures throughout all generations. You have established the earth and it stands.
91 By your ordinances they stand today, for all are your servants.
92 Unless your law had been my delight, then I would have perished in my misery.
93 I will not ever forget your precepts, for by them you revive me.
94 I am yours. Save me, for I have sought your precepts.
95 For me the wicked lie in wait to destroy me. I give attention to your testimonies.
96 I have seen a limit to every perfection; your command is very broad.
97 How I love your law! The whole day it is my meditation.
98 Your commands make me wiser than my enemies, because they are ever with me.
99 I have more insight than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation.
100 I understand more than the elders, for I keep your precepts.
101 I have restrained my feet from every evil way, so that I may heed your word.
102 I have not turned aside from your ordinances, for you have taught me.
103 How smooth are your words to my palate, more than honey in my mouth.
104 From your precepts I get understanding, therefore I hate every false way.
105 Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
106 I have sworn an oath and confirmed it, to heed your righteous ordinances.
107 I am very much afflicted; O Yahweh, revive me according to your word.
108 Please accept the freewill offerings of my mouth, O Yahweh, and teach me your ordinances.
109 My life is in danger continually, yet I do not forget your law.
110 The wicked have laid a snare for me, yet I do not wander from your precepts.
111 I have taken as my own your testimonies forever, for they are the joy of my heart.
112 I have inclined my heart to do your statutes forever, to the end.
113 I hate the double-minded, but I love your law.
114 You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word.
115 Turn aside from me, you evildoers, for I will keep the commands of my God.
116 Sustain me according to your word, that I may live, and do not let me be ashamed of my hope.
117 Uphold me, that I may be delivered, and have regard for your statutes continually.
118 You reject all who stray from your statutes, for their deceit is a breach of faith.
119 You remove all the wicked of the earth like dross, therefore I love your testimonies.
120 My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments.
121 I have done justice and righteousness; do not leave me to my oppressors.
122 Pledge good for your servant; do not let the arrogant oppress me.
123 My eyes long for your salvation, and your righteous word.
124 Deal with your servant according to your loyal love, and teach me your statutes.
125 I am your servant; give me understanding, that I may know your statutes.
126 It is time for Yahweh to act, for they have broken your law.
127 Therefore I love your commands more than gold, even fine gold.
128 Therefore all your precepts of everything I regard as right; I hate every false way.
129 Your testimonies are miracles, therefore my soul keeps them.
130 The unfolding of your words gives light, giving understanding to the simple.
131 I open my mouth and pant, because I long for your commands.
132 Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is proper for those who love your name.
133 Direct my steps in your word, and do not let any iniquity gain power over me.
134 Redeem me from the oppression of humankind, that I may heed your precepts.
135 Shine your face on your servant, and teach me your statutes.
136 Streams of water flow down from my eyes, because people do not heed your law.
137 You are righteous, O Yahweh, and your ordinances are upright.
138 You have ordained your testimonies in righteousness, and in exceeding faithfulness.
139 My zeal consumes me, because my enemies have forgotten your words.
140 Your word is very pure, and your servant loves it.
141 I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts.
142 Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and your law is truth.
143 Trouble and anguish have found me; your commands delight me.
144 The righteousness of your testimonies is forever; give me understanding that I may live.
145 I call with my whole heart; answer me, O Yahweh. I will keep your statutes.
146 I call to you. Save me, and I will heed your testimonies.
147 I rise early in the dawn and cry for help; I hope in your word.
148 My eyes anticipate the night watches, that I may meditate on your word.
149 Hear my voice according to your loyal love; O Yahweh, preserve my life according to your justice.
150 Those who pursue a wicked purpose draw near; they are far from your law.
151 You are near, O Yahweh, and all your commands are truth.
152 Concerning your testimonies, I knew long ago that you have established them forever.
153 See my misery and rescue me, for I do not forget your law.
154 Plead my cause and redeem me; preserve my life according to your word.
155 Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek your statutes.
156 Your mercies are great, O Yahweh; preserve my life according to your ordinances.
157 My persecutors and enemies are many, yet I do not turn aside from your testimonies.
158 I see the treacherous and I feel disgust, because they do not heed your word.
159 Consider that I love your precepts; O Yahweh, according to your loyal love preserve my life.
160 The whole of your word is truth, and your every righteous judgment endures forever.
161 Princes persecute me without cause, but my heart trembles because of your word.
162 I am rejoicing over your word, like one who finds great spoil.
163 I hate and abhor falsehood; I love your law.
164 I praise you seven times in the day for your righteous ordinances.
165 Great peace is for those who love your law, and they do not have a cause for stumbling.
166 I hope for your salvation, O Yahweh, and do your commands.
167 My soul heeds your testimonies, and I love them exceedingly.
168 I heed your precepts and testimonies, because all my ways are before you.
169 Let my cry come before you, O Yahweh; give me understanding according to your word.
170 Let my plea come before you; Deliver me according to your word.
171 Let my lips pour out praise, because you teach me your statutes.
172 Let my tongue sing of your word, because all your commands are right.
173 Let your hand be my help, because I have chosen your precepts.
174 I long for your salvation, O Yahweh, and your law is my delight.
175 Let my soul live that it may praise you, and let your ordinances help me.
176 I have wandered like a lost sheep; seek your servant, because I do not forget your commands.