1 God will arise; his enemies will be scattered, and those who hate him will flee from before him.
2 As smoke is driven off, you will drive them off. As wax melts before fire, the wicked will perish before God.
3 But the righteous will be glad; they will exalt before God, and will rejoice with joy.
4 Sing to God, sing praises to his name. Lift up a song to the rider on the clouds—his name is Yah— and rejoice before him.
5 A father to orphans and a judge for widows is God in his holy habitation.
6 God settles the lonely in a home; he brings prisoners out into prosperity. But the rebellious abide in a barren land.
7 O God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the desert, Selah
8 the earth shook; the heavens also dripped rain at the presence of God who was at Sinai, at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
9 You caused abundant rain to fall, O God. When your inheritance was weary you revived it.
10 Your community dwelled in it. You provided in your goodness for the poor, O God.
11 The Lord gives the word. Great is the company of women who announce:
12 "The kings of armies flee, they flee, and she who remains at home divides the spoil.
13 Though you men lie down between the sheepfolds, you will be like the wings of a dove covered in silver and its pinions in yellow gold."
14 When Shaddai scattered kings on it, on Zalmon it snowed.
15 A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; a mountain of many peaks is the mountain of Bashan.
16 Why do you look with hostility, O many-peaked mountains? This mountain God desires for his dwelling. Yes, Yahweh will abide in it forever.
17 The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, with thousands doubled. The Lord is among them at Sinai, distinctive in victory.
18 You have ascended on high; you have led away captives. You have received gifts from among humankind, and even from the rebellious, so that Yah God may dwell there.
19 Blessed be the Lord. Daily he loads us with benefits, the God of our salvation. Selah
20 Our God is a God of deliverances, and to the Yahweh the Lord belong escapes from death.
21 But God will shatter the head of his enemies, the hairy scalp of the one who continues on in his guilt.
22 The Lord said, "I will bring them back from Bashan; I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,
23 so that your foot may shatter them bloody for the tongues of your dogs to have their share from the enemies."
24 They have seen your processions, O God, the processions of my God, my king, distinctive in victory.
25 Singers went up front, those playing stringed instruments last, between them young women playing tambourines.
26 Bless God in the assemblies, Yahweh from the fountain of Israel.
27 There is little Benjamin ruling them, with the princes of Judah in their throng, the princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali.
28 Your God has commanded your strength. Show yourself strong, O God, by what you perform for us.
29 Because your temple is above Jerusalem, kings will bring tribute to you.
30 Rebuke the beasts in the reeds, the herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples, trampling the pieces of silver. Scatter the nations who delight in battles.
31 Ambassadors will come from Egypt; Cush will quickly stretch out her hands to God.
32 O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God; sing praise to the Lord, Selah
33 to the one who rides in the highest heavens of old. See, he gives forth his voice, a mighty voice.
34 Ascribe strength to God. His majesty is over Israel, and his strength is in the clouds.
35 Awesome are you, O God, from your sanctuary. The God of Israel, it is he who gives strength and might to the people. Blessed be God.