1 Give ear, O God, to my prayer, and do not hide yourself from my plea.
2 Attend to me and answer me. I am restless in my lamenting and I groan,
3 because of the voice of an enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked, because they bring down evil on me, and in anger they hold a grudge against me.
4 My heart trembles within me, and deathly terrors fall on me.
5 Fear and trembling come on me, and horror overwhelms me.
6 So I say, "Oh, that I had wings like a dove. I would fly away and be at rest.
7 Look, I would flee far away. I would dwell in the wilderness. Selah
8 I would hurry to my refuge from the raging wind and storm."
9 Confuse, O Lord; divide their speech, because I see violence and strife in the city.
10 Day and night they go around it on its walls, and iniquity and trouble are in its midst.
11 Destruction is within it, and oppression and deceit do not depart from its public square.
12 For it is not an enemy that taunts me, or I could bear it. It is not one who hates me that magnifies himself over me, or I could hide myself from him.
13 But it is you, a man my equal, my friend and confidant.
14 We who would take sweet counsel together; in the house of God we would walk with the throng.
15 Let death deceive them. May they descend to Sheol alive, because evil is in their home and heart.
16 As for me, I will call to God, and Yahweh will save me.
17 Morning, noon and night I will lament and groan loudly, and he will hear my voice.
18 He safely redeems my life from the battle against me, because those standing against me are among many.
19 God will hear and answer them, he who is enthroned from of old, Selah Because they do not change, and they do not fear God.
20 He has put forth his hands against his friends; he has defiled his covenant.
21 The buttery words of his mouth were smooth, but there was battle in his heart. His words were smoother than oil, but they were drawn swords.
22 Cast your burden on Yahweh, and he will sustain you. He will never allow the righteous to be moved.
23 But you, O God, you will bring them down to the pit of corruption. The men of bloodshed and deceit will not live half their days, but I will trust you.