1 O Yahweh, you have searched me, and you know me.
2 You know my sitting down and my rising up. You understand my thought from afar.
3 You search out my wandering and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
4 For there is not a word yet on my tongue, but behold, O Yahweh, you know it completely.
5 You barricade me behind and in front, and set your hand upon me.
6 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is set high; I cannot prevail against it.
7 Where I can go from your Spirit, or where can I flee from your presence?
8 If I ascend to heaven, there you are, and if I make my bed in Sheol, look! There you are.
9 If I lift up the wings of the dawn, and I alight on the far side of the sea,
10 even there your hand would lead me, and your right hand would hold me fast.
11 And if I should say, "Surely darkness will cover me, and the light around me will be as night,"
12 even the darkness is not too dark for you, and the night shines as the day— the darkness and the light are alike for you.
13 Indeed you created my inward parts; you wove me in my mother's womb.
14 I praise you, because I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works, and my soul knows it well.
15 My frame was not hidden from you, when I was created secretly, and intricately woven in the depths of the earth.
16 Your eyes saw my embryo, and in your book they all were written— days fashioned for me when there was not one of them.
17 And to me, how precious are your thoughts, O God; how vast is their sum.
18 If I should count them, they would outnumber the sand. I awaken, and I am still with you.
19 If only you would kill the wicked, O God— so get away from me, you bloodthirsty men—
20 who speak against you deceitfully. Your enemies take your name in vain.
21 Do I not hate those who hate you, O Yahweh? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you?
22 I hate them with a complete hatred; they have become my enemies.
23 Search me, O God, and know my heart; test me and know my anxious thoughts.
24 And see if there is in me the worship of false gods, and lead me in the way everlasting.