1 In you, O Yahweh, I have taken refuge. Let me not be put to shame ever. Deliver me by your righteousness.
2 Incline your ear to me. Quickly deliver me. Become my rock of refuge, a fortified keep to save me.
3 For you are my rock and my fortress. So, for the sake of your name, lead me and guide me.
4 Bring me out of the net that they have secretly set for me, for you are my refuge.
5 Into your hand I commit my spirit. You have redeemed me, O Yahweh, faithful God.
6 I hate those devoted to useless idols, but I trust Yahweh.
7 I will exult and rejoice in your loyal love. Because you have seen my misery, you know the distresses of my life.
8 And you have not delivered me into the hand of the enemy. You have set my feet in a broad place.
9 Be gracious to me, O Yahweh, because I have distress. My eye wastes away because of vexation, along with my soul and my body.
10 For my life is at an end with sorrow, and my years with sighing. My strength stumbles because of my iniquity, and my bones waste away.
11 Because of all my adversaries I have become a disgrace, especially to my neighbors, and a dread to my acquaintances. Those who see me in the street flee from me.
12 I have become forgotten like one dead, out of mind. I am like a destroyed vessel.
13 For I hear the rumor of many, "Terror on every side!" When conspiring together against me, they have plotted to take my life.
14 But as for me, I trust you, O Yahweh. I say, "You are my God."
15 My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies and from those who pursue me.
16 Shine your face upon your servant. Save me by your loyal love.
17 O Yahweh, let me not be put to shame, for I call on you. Let the wicked be put to shame. Let them go silently to Sheol.
18 Let lying lips be dumb, that speak against the righteous unrestrained with arrogance and contempt.
19 How abundant is your goodness that you have stored up for those who fear you, that you perform for those who take refuge in you before the children of humankind.
20 You will hide them in the protection of your presence from the plots of man. You will hide them in a shelter from the strife of tongues.
21 Blessed is Yahweh, because he has worked marvelously his loyal love to me in a besieged city.
22 As for me, I said in my alarm, "I am cut off from before your eyes." However you heard the voice of my supplications when I cried to you for help.
23 Love Yahweh, all you his faithful ones. Yahweh preserves the faithful but repays abundantly the one who acts arrogantly.
24 Be strong and let your heart show strength, all you who wait for Yahweh.