1 73 Surely God is good to Israel, Even to such as are pure in heart.
2 But as for me, my feet were almost gone; My steps had well nigh slipped.
3 For I was envious at the arrogant, When I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
4 For there are no pangs in their death; But their strength is firm.
5 They are not in trouble as other men; Neither are they plagued like other men.
6 Therefore pride is as a chain about their neck; Violence covereth them as a garment.
7 Their eyes stand out with fatness: They have more than heart could wish.
8 They scoff, and in wickedness utter oppression: They speak loftily.
9 They have set their mouth in the heavens, And their tongue walketh through the earth.
10 Therefore his people return hither: And waters of a full cup are drained by them.
11 And they say, How doth God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?
12 Behold, these are the wicked; And, being alway at ease, they increase in riches.
13 Surely in vain have I cleansed my heart, And washed my hands in innocency;
14 For all the day long have I been plagued, And chastened every morning.
15 If I had said, I will speak thus; Behold, I had dealt treacherously with the generation of thy children.
16 When I thought how I might know this, It was too painful for me;
17 Until I went into the sanctuary of God, And considered their latter end.
18 Surely thou settest them in slippery places: Thou castest them down to destruction.
19 How are they become a desolation in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors.
20 As a dream when one awaketh, So, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou wilt despise their image.
21 For my soul was grieved, And I was pricked in my heart:
22 So brutish was I, and ignorant; I was as a beast before thee.
23 Nevertheless I am continually with thee: Thou hast holden my right hand.
24 Thou wilt guide me with thy counsel, And afterward receive me to glory.
25 Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon earth that I desire besides thee.
26 My flesh and my heart faileth; But God is the strength of my heart and my portion for ever.
27 For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: Thou hast destroyed all them that play the harlot, departing from thee.
28 But it is good for me to draw near unto God: I have made the Lord Jehovah my refuge, That I may tell of all thy works.