1 Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness endureth for ever.
2 Let Israel now say, That his lovingkindness endureth for ever.
3 Let the house of Aaron now say, That his lovingkindness endureth for ever.
4 Let them now that fear Jehovah say, That his lovingkindness endureth for ever.
5 Out of my distress I called upon Jehovah: Jehovah answered me and set me in a large place.
6 Jehovah is on my side; I will not fear: What can man do unto me?
7 Jehovah is on my side among them that help me: Therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me.
8 It is better to take refuge in Jehovah Than to put confidence in man.
9 It is better to take refuge in Jehovah Than to put confidence in princes.
10 All nations compassed me about: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
11 They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
12 They compassed me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off.
13 Thou didst thrust sore at me that I might fall; But Jehovah helped me.
14 Jehovah is my strength and song; And he is become my salvation.
15 The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous: The right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly.
16 The right hand of Jehovah is exalted: The right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly.
17 I shall not die, but live, And declare the works of Jehovah.
18 Jehovah hath chastened me sore; But he hath not given me over unto death.
19 Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will enter into them, I will give thanks unto Jehovah.
20 This is the gate of Jehovah; The righteous shall enter into it.
21 I will give thanks unto thee; for thou hast answered me, And art become my salvation.
22 The stone which the builders rejected Is become the head of the corner.
23 This is Jehovah's doing; It is marvellous in our eyes.
24 This is the day which Jehovah hath made; We will rejoice and be glad in it.
25 Save now, we beseech thee, O Jehovah: O Jehovah, we beseech thee, send now prosperity.
26 Blessed be he that cometh in the name of Jehovah: We have blessed you out of the house of Jehovah.
27 Jehovah is God, and he hath given us light: Bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.
28 Thou art my God, and I will give thanks unto thee: Thou art my God, I will exalt thee.
29 Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness endureth for ever.