1 In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, hath a word of Jehovah been unto Zechariah, son of Berechiah, son of Iddo, the prophet, saying:
2 `Jehovah was wroth against your fathers -- wrath!
3 And thou hast said unto them, Thus said Jehovah of Hosts, turn back unto Me, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts, And I turn back unto you, said Jehovah of Hosts.
4 Ye shall not be as your fathers, To whom the former prophets called, saying: Thus said Jehovah of Hosts, Turn back I pray you, From your evil ways and from your evil doings, And they did not hearken, Nor attend to Me -- an affirmation of Jehovah.
5 Your fathers -- where  they? And the prophets -- to the age do they live?
6 Only, My words, and My statutes, That I commanded My servants the prophets, Have they not overtaken your fathers, And they turn back and say: As Jehovah of Hosts designed to do to us, According to our ways, and according to our doings, So He hath done to us?'
7 On the twenty and fourth day of the eleventh month, (it  the month of Sebat,) in the second year of Darius, hath a word of Jehovah been unto Zechariah, son of Berechiah, son of Iddo, the prophet, saying:
8 I have seen by night, and lo, one riding on a red horse, and he is standing between the myrtles that  in the shade, and behind him  horses, red, bay, and white.
9 And I say, `What  these, my lord?' And the messenger who is speaking with me saith unto me, `I -- I do shew thee what these .'
10 And the one who is standing between the myrtles doth answer and say, `These  they whom Jehovah hath sent to walk up and down in the land.'
11 And they answer the messenger of Jehovah who is standing between the myrtles, and say, `We have walked up and down in the land, and lo, all the land is sitting still, and at rest.'
12 And the messenger of Jehovah answereth and saith, `Jehovah of Hosts! till when dost Thou not pity Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, that Thou hast abhorred these seventy years?'
13 And Jehovah answereth the messenger, who is speaking with me, good words, comfortable words.
14 And the messenger who is speaking with me, saith unto me, `Call, saying: Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: I have been zealous for Jerusalem, and for Zion  great zeal.
15 And  great wrath I am wroth against the nations who are at ease, For I was a little wroth, and they assisted -- for evil.
16 Therefore, thus said Jehovah: I have turned to Jerusalem with mercies, My house is built in it, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts, And a line is stretched over Jerusalem.
17 Again call, saying: Thus said Jehovah of Hosts, Again do my cities overflow from good, And Jehovah hath again comforted Zion, And He hath fixed again on Jerusalem.'
18 And I lift up mine eyes, and look, and lo, four horns.
19 And I say unto the messenger who is speaking with me, `What  these?' And he saith unto me, `These  the horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.'
20 And Jehovah doth shew me four artizans.
21 And I say, `What  these coming in to do?' And He speaketh, saying: `These  the horns that have scattered Judah, so that no one hath lifted up his head, and these come in to trouble them, to cast down the horns of the nations who are lifting up a horn against the land of Judah -- to scatter it.'