1 My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? [why art thou] far from my salvation, from the words of my groaning?
2 My God, I cry by day, and thou answerest not; and by night, and there is no rest for me:
3 And thou art holy, thou that dwellest amid the praises of Israel.
4 Our fathers confided in thee: they confided, and thou didst deliver them.
5 They cried unto thee, and were delivered; they confided in thee, and were not confounded.
6 But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and the despised of the people.
7 All they that see me laugh me to scorn; they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, [saying:]
8 Commit it to Jehovah—let him rescue him; let him deliver him, because he delighteth in him!
9 But thou art he that took me out of the womb; thou didst make me trust, upon my mother's breasts.
10 I was cast upon thee from the womb; thou art my God from my mother's belly.
11 Be not far from me, for trouble is near; for there is none to help.
12 Many bulls have encompassed me; Bashan's strong ones have beset me round.
13 They gape upon me with their mouth,  a ravening and a roaring lion.
14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is become like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.
15 My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue cleaveth to my palate; and thou hast laid me in the dust of death.
16 For dogs have encompassed me; an assembly of evil-doers have surrounded me: they pierced my hands and my feet.
17 I may count all my bones. They look, they stare upon me;
18 They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.
19 But thou, Jehovah, be not far [from me]; O my strength, haste thee to help me.
20 Deliver my soul from the sword; my only one from the power of the dog;
21 Save me from the lion's mouth. Yea, from the horns of the buffaloes hast thou answered me.
22 I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.
23 Ye that fear Jehovah, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and revere him, all ye the seed of Israel.
24 For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him: but when he cried unto him, he heard.
25 My praise is from thee, in the great congregation; I will pay my vows before them that fear him.
26 The meek shall eat and be satisfied; they shall praise Jehovah that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.
27 All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto Jehovah, and all the families of the nations shall worship before thee:
28 For the kingdom is Jehovah's, and he ruleth among the nations.
29 All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship; all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him, and he that cannot keep alive his own soul.
30 A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.
31 They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done .