1 Jehovah, hear my prayer, and let my cry come unto thee.
2 Hide not thy face from me: in the day of my trouble, incline thine ear unto me; in the day I call, answer me speedily.
3 For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as a firebrand.
4 My heart is smitten and withered like grass; yea, I have forgotten to eat my bread.
5 By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones cleave to my flesh.
6 I am become like the pelican of the wilderness, I am as an owl in desolate places;
7 I watch, and am like a sparrow alone upon the housetop.
8 Mine enemies reproach me all the day; they that are mad against me swear by me.
9 For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping,
10 Because of thine indignation and thy wrath; for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down.
11 My days are like a lengthened-out shadow, and I, I am withered like grass.
12 But thou, Jehovah, abidest for ever, and thy memorial from generation to generation.
13 *Thou* wilt rise up, thou wilt have mercy upon Zion: for it is the time to be gracious to her, for the set time is come.
14 For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour her dust.
15 And the nations shall fear the name of Jehovah, and all the kings of the earth thy glory.
16 When Jehovah shall build up Zion, he will appear in his glory.
17 He will regard the prayer of the destitute one, and not despise their prayer.
18 This shall be written for the generation to come; and a people that shall be created shall praise Jah:
19 For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from the heavens hath Jehovah beheld the earth,
20 To hear the groaning of the prisoner, to loose those that are appointed to die;
21 That the name of Jehovah may be declared in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem,
22 When the peoples shall be gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve Jehovah.
23 He weakened my strength in the way, he shortened my days.
24 I said, My God, take me not away in the midst of my days! … Thy years are from generation to generation.
25 Of old hast thou founded the earth, and the heavens are the work of thy hands:
26 *They* shall perish, but *thou* continuest; and all of them shall grow old as a garment: as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed.
27 But thou art the Same, and thy years shall have no end.
28 The children of thy servants shall abide, and their seed shall be established before thee.