1 O God of my praise, be not silent:
2 For the mouth of the wicked  and the mouth of deceit are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue,
3 And with words of hatred have they encompassed me; and they fight against me without a cause.
4 For my love they are mine adversaries; but I [give myself unto] prayer.
5 And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
6 Set a wicked  over him, and let  adversary stand at his right hand;
7 When he shall be judged, let him go out guilty, and let his prayer become sin;
8 Let his days be few, let another take his office;
9 Let his sons be fatherless, and his wife a widow;
10 Let his sons be vagabonds and beg, and let them seek [their bread] far from their desolate places;
11 Let the usurer cast the net over all that he hath, and let strangers despoil his labour;
12 Let there be none to extend kindness unto him, neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children;
13 Let his posterity be cut off; in the generation following let their name be blotted out:
14 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with Jehovah, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out;
15 Let them be before Jehovah continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth:
16 Because he remembered not to shew kindness, but persecuted the afflicted and needy man, and the broken in heart, to slay him.
17 And he loved cursing; so let it come unto him. And he delighted not in blessing; and let it be far from him.
18 And he clothed himself with cursing like his vestment; so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones;
19 Let it be unto him as a garment with which he covereth himself, and for a girdle wherewith he is constantly girded.
20 Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from Jehovah, and of them that speak evil against my soul.
21 But do *thou* for me, Jehovah, Lord, for thy name's sake; because thy loving-kindness is good, deliver me:
22 For I am afflicted and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.
23 I am gone like a shadow when it lengtheneth; I am tossed about like the locust;
24 My knees are failing through fasting, and my flesh hath lost its fatness;
25 And I am become a reproach unto them;  they look upon me they shake their heads.
26 Help me, Jehovah my God; save me according to thy loving-kindness:
27 That they may know that this is thy hand; that *thou*, Jehovah, hast done it.
28 Let *them* curse, but bless *thou*; when they rise up, let them be ashamed, and let thy servant rejoice.
29 Let mine adversaries be clothed with confusion, and let them cover themselves with their shame as with a mantle.
30 I will greatly celebrate Jehovah with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude.
31 For he standeth at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those that judge his soul.