1 In thee, Jehovah, do I trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness.
2 Incline thine ear to me, deliver me speedily; be a strong rock to me, a house of defence to save me.
3 For thou art my rock and my fortress; and, for thy name's sake, thou wilt lead me and guide me.
4 Draw me out of the net that they have hidden for me; for thou art my strength.
5 Into thy hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, Jehovah,  God of truth.
6 I have hated them that observe lying vanities; and as for me, I have confided in Jehovah.
7 I will be glad and rejoice in thy loving-kindness, for thou hast seen mine affliction; thou hast known the troubles of my soul,
8 And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large place.
9 Be gracious unto me, Jehovah, for I am in trouble: mine eye wasteth away with vexation, my soul and my belly.
10 For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing; my strength faileth through mine iniquity, and my bones are wasted.
11 More than to all mine oppressors, I am become exceedingly a reproach, even to my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that see me without flee from me.
12 I am forgotten in  heart as a dead man; I am become like a broken vessel.
13 For I have heard the slander of many—terror on every side—when they take counsel together against me: they plot to take away my life.
14 But I confided in thee, Jehovah; I said, thou art my God.
15 My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from my persecutors.
16 Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; save me in thy loving-kindness.
17 Jehovah, let me not be ashamed; for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be ashamed, let them be silent in Sheol.
18 Let the lying lips become dumb, which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt.
19  how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee,  thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee, before the sons of men!
20 Thou keepest them concealed in the secret of thy presence from the conspiracies of man; thou hidest them in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
21 Blessed be Jehovah; for he hath shewn me wondrously his loving-kindness in a strong city.
22 As for me, I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes; nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee.
23 Love Jehovah, all ye his saints. Jehovah preserveth the faithful, and plentifully requiteth the proud doer.
24 Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all ye that hope in Jehovah.