1 O God, give the king thy judgments, and thy righteousness unto the king's son.
2 He will judge thy people with righteousness, and thine afflicted with judgment.
3 The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the hills, by righteousness.
4 He will do justice to the afflicted of the people; he will save the children of the needy, and will break in pieces the oppressor.
5 They shall fear thee as long as sun and moon endure, from generation to generation.
6 He shall come down like rain on the mown grass, as showers that water the earth.
7 In his days shall the righteous flourish, and abundance of peace till the moon be no more.
8 And he shall have dominion from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth.
9 The dwellers in the desert shall bow before him, and his enemies shall lick the dust.
10 The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall render presents; the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer tribute:
11 Yea, all kings shall bow down before him; all nations shall serve him.
12 For he will deliver the needy who crieth, and the afflicted, who hath no helper;
13 He will have compassion on the poor and needy, and will save the souls of the needy:
14 He will redeem their souls from oppression and violence, and precious shall their blood be in his sight.
15 And he shall live; and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba; and prayer shall be made for him continually: all the day shall he be blessed.
16 There shall be abundance of corn in the earth, upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon; and they of the city shall bloom like the herb of the earth.
17 His name shall endure for ever; his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and  shall bless themselves in him; all nations shall call him blessed.
18 Blessed be Jehovah Elohim, the God of Israel, who alone doeth wondrous things!
19 And blessed be his glorious name for ever! and let the whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen, and Amen.
20 The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.