1 Give ye thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; for his loving-kindness  for ever.
2 Let the redeemed of Jehovah say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the oppressor,
3 And gathered out of the countries, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the sea.
4 They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way, they found no city of habitation;
5 Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them:
6 Then they cried unto Jehovah in their trouble,  he delivered them out of their distresses,
7 And he led them forth by a right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.
8 Let them give thanks unto Jehovah for his loving-kindness, and for his wondrous works to the children of men;
9 For he hath satisfied the longing soul and filled the hungry soul with good.
10 Such as inhabit darkness and the shadow of death, bound in affliction and iron,
11 Because they had rebelled against the words of God, and had despised the counsel of the Most High; …
12 And he bowed down their heart with labour; they stumbled, and there was none to help:
13 Then they cried unto Jehovah in their trouble,  he saved them out of their distresses;
14 He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bands in sunder.
15 Let them give thanks unto Jehovah for his loving-kindness, and for his wondrous works to the children of men;
16 For he hath broken the gates of bronze, and cut asunder the bars of iron.
17 Fools, because of their way of transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted;
18 Their soul abhorreth all manner of food, and they draw near unto the gates of death:
19 Then they cry unto Jehovah in their trouble,  he saveth them out of their distresses;
20 He sendeth his word, and healeth them, and delivereth them from their destructions.
21 Let them give thanks unto Jehovah for his loving-kindness, and for his wondrous works to the children of men,
22 And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works in joyful song.
23 They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters,
24 These see the works of Jehovah, and his wonders in the deep.
25 For he speaketh, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof:
26 They mount up to the heavens, they go down to the depths; their soul is melted because of trouble;
27 They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and they are at their wits' end:
28 Then they cry unto Jehovah in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses;
29 He maketh the storm a calm, and the waves thereof are still:
30 And they rejoice because they are quiet; and he bringeth them unto their desired haven.
31 Let them give thanks unto Jehovah for his loving-kindness, and for his wondrous works to the children of men;
32 Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the session of the elders.
33 He maketh rivers into a wilderness, and water-springs into dry ground;
34 A fruitful land into a plain of salt, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.
35 He maketh the wilderness into a pool of water, and the dry land into water-springs;
36 And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, and they establish a city of habitation;
37 And sow fields, and plant vineyards, which yield fruits of increase;
38 And he blesseth them, so that they are multiplied greatly; and he suffereth not their cattle to decrease.
39 And they are diminished and brought low, through oppression, adversity, and sorrow:
40 He poureth contempt upon nobles, and causeth them to wander in a pathless waste;
41 But he secureth the needy one on high from affliction, and maketh  families like flocks.
42 The upright shall see it, and rejoice; and all unrighteousness shall stop its mouth.
43 Whoso is wise, let him observe these things, and let them understand the loving-kindnesses of Jehovah.