1 God, Elohim-Jehovah, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.
2 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined forth.
3 Our God will come, and will not keep silence: fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.
4 He will call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people:
5 Gather unto me my godly ones, those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice!
6 And the heavens shall declare his righteousness; for God executeth judgment himself. Selah.
7 Hear, my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify unto thee: I am God, thy God.
8 I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices, or thy burnt-offerings, continually before me;
9 I will take no bullock out of thy house,  he-goats out of thy folds:
10 For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle upon a thousand hills;
11 I know all the fowl of the mountains, and the roaming creatures of the field are mine:
12 If I were hungry, I would not tell thee; for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.
13 Should I eat the flesh of bulls, and drink the blood of goats?
14 Offer unto God thanksgiving, and perform thy vows unto the Most High;
15 And call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.
16 But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant into thy mouth,
17 Seeing thou hast hated correction and hast cast my words behind thee?
18 When thou sawest a thief, thou didst take pleasure in him, and thy portion was with adulterers;
19 Thou lettest thy mouth loose to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit;
20 Thou sittest  speakest against thy brother, thou revilest thine own mother's son:
21 These  hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether as thyself:  I will reprove thee, and set  in order before thine eyes.
22 Now consider this, ye that forget +God, lest I tear in pieces, and there be no deliverer.
23 Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me; and to him that ordereth  way will I shew the salvation of God.