1 In thee, Jehovah, do I trust: let me never be ashamed.
2 Deliver me in thy righteousness, and rescue me; incline thine ear unto me, and save me.
3 Be to me a rock of habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my fortress.
4 My God, rescue me out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
5 For thou art my hope, O Lord Jehovah, my confidence from my youth.
6 On thee have I been stayed from the womb; from the bowels of my mother thou didst draw me forth: my praise shall be continually of thee.
7 I have been as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong refuge.
8 My mouth shall be filled with thy praise, with thy glory, all the day.
9 Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth.
10 For mine enemies speak against me, and they that watch for my soul consult together,
11 Saying, God hath forsaken him; pursue and seize him, for there is none to deliver.
12 O God, be not far from me; my God, hasten to my help.
13 Let them be ashamed, let them be consumed, that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt.
14 But as for me, I will hope continually, and will praise thee yet more and more.
15 My mouth shall declare thy righteousness,  thy salvation all the day: for I know not the numbers .
16 I will go in the might of the Lord Jehovah; I will recall thy righteousness, thine alone.
17 O God, thou hast taught me from my youth, and hitherto have I proclaimed thy marvellous works:
18 Now also, when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not, until I have proclaimed thine arm unto  generation, thy might to every one that is to come.
19 And thy righteousness, O God, reacheth on high, thou who hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee?
20 Thou, who hast shewn us many and sore troubles, wilt revive us again, and wilt bring us up again from the depths of the earth;
21 Thou wilt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.
22 I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, my God; unto thee will I sing psalms with the harp, thou holy One of Israel.
23 My lips shall exult when I sing psalms unto thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed.
24 My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day; for they shall be ashamed, for they shall be brought to confusion, that seek my hurt.