1 Bless Jehovah, O my soul! Jehovah my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with majesty and splendour;
2 Covering thyself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent-curtain;—
3 Who layeth the beams of his upper chambers in the waters, who maketh clouds his chariot, who walketh upon the wings of the wind;
4 Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flame of fire.
5 He laid the earth upon its foundations: it shall not be removed for ever.
6 Thou hadst covered it with the deep, as with a vesture; the waters stood above the mountains:
7 At thy rebuke they fled, at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away;—
8 The mountains rose, the valleys sank, unto the place which thou hadst founded for them;—
9 Thou hast set a bound which they may not pass over, that they turn not again to cover the earth.
10 He sendeth the springs into the valleys: they run among the mountains;
11 They give drink to every beast of the field; the wild asses quench their thirst.
12 The birds of heaven dwell by them; they give forth their voice from among the branches.
13 He watereth the mountains from his upper-chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.
14 He maketh the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man; bringing forth bread out of the earth,
15 And wine which gladdeneth the heart of man; making  face shine with oil; and with bread he strengtheneth man's heart.
16 The trees of Jehovah are satisfied, the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted,
17 Where the birds make their nests; [as for] the stork, the fir trees are her house.
18 The high mountains are for the wild goats; the cliffs, a refuge for the rock-badgers.
19 He made the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth its going down.
20 Thou makest darkness, and it is night, wherein all the beasts of the forest creep forth:
21 The young lions roar after the prey, and to seek their food from God.
22 The sun ariseth, they retreat, and lay them down in their dens.
23 Man goeth forth unto his work, and to his labour until the evening.
24 How manifold are thy works, O Jehovah! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.
25 Yonder is the great and wide sea: therein are moving things innumerable, living creatures small and great.
26 There go the ships;  that leviathan, which thou hast formed to play therein.
27 These all look unto thee, that thou mayest give their food in its season:
28 That thou givest unto them, they gather; thou openest thy hand, they are filled with good.
29 Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled; thou takest away their breath, they expire and return to their dust.
30 Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created, and thou renewest the face of the earth.
31 The glory of Jehovah will endure for ever; Jehovah will rejoice in his works.
32 He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth; he toucheth the mountains, and they smoke.
33 I will sing unto Jehovah as long as I live; I will sing psalms to my God while I have my being.
34 My meditation shall be pleasant unto him; I will rejoice in Jehovah.
35 Sinners shall be consumed out of the earth, and the wicked shall be no more. Bless Jehovah, O my soul. Hallelujah!