1 Therefore let us fear, while there remains a promise of entering into his rest, that none of you appear to fall short of it. 
2 For we also have had the good news proclaimed to us, just as those also did, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because they were not united with those who heard it in faith. 
3 For we who have believed enter into rest, just as he has said, "As I swore in my anger, 'They will never enter into my rest.'" And yet these works have been accomplished from the foundation of the world. 
4 For he has spoken somewhere about the seventh day in this way: "And God rested on the seventh day from all his works," 
5 and in this passage again, 'They will never enter into my rest.'" 
6 Since therefore it remains for some to enter into it, and the ones to whom the good news was proclaimed previously did not enter because of disobedience, 
7 again he ordains a certain day, today, speaking by David after so long a time, just as had been said before, "Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts."
8 For if Joshua had caused them to rest, he would not have spoken about another day after these things. 
9 Consequently a sabbath rest remains for the people of God. 
10 For the one who has entered into his rest has also himself rested from his works, just as God did from his own works.
11 Therefore, let us make every effort to enter into that rest, in order that no one may fall in the same pattern of disobedience. 
12 For the word of God is living and active and sharper than any double-edged sword, and piercing as far as the division of soul and spirit, both joints and marrow, and able to judge the reflections and thoughts of the heart. 
13 And no creature is hidden in the sight of him, but all things are naked and laid bare to the eyes of him to whom we must give our account.
14 Therefore, because we have a great high priest who has gone through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession. 
15 For we do not have a high priest who is not able to sympathize with our weaknesses, but who has been tempted in all things in the same way, without sin. 
16 Therefore let us approach with confidence to the throne of grace, in order that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.