1 Brotherly love must continue. 
2 Do not neglect hospitality, because through this some have received angels as guests without knowing it. 
3 Remember the prisoners, as though you were fellow-prisoners; remember the mistreated, as though you yourselves also are being mistreated in the body. 
4 Marriage must be held in honor by all, and the marriage bed be undefiled, because God will judge sexually immoral people and adulterers. 
5 Your lifestyle must be free from the love of money, being content with what you have. For he himself has said, "I will never desert you, and I will never abandon you." 
6 So then, we can say with confidence, "The Lord is my helper, I will not be afraid. What will man do to me?"
7 Remember your leaders, who spoke the word of God to you; considering the outcome of their way of life, imitate their faith. 
8 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. 
9 Do not be carried away by various and strange teachings, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods by which those who participate have not benefited. 
10 We have an altar from which those who serve in the tabernacle do not have the right to eat. 
11 For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sins are burned up outside the camp. 
12 Therefore Jesus also suffered outside the gate, in order that he might sanctify the people by his own blood. 
13 So we must go out to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach. 
14 For here we do not have a permanent city, but we seek the city that is to come. 
15 Therefore through him let us offer up a sacrifice of praise continually to God, that is, the fruit of lips that confess his name. 
16 And do not neglect doing good and generosity, for God is pleased with such sacrifices.
17 Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an account, so that they can do this with joy and not with groaning, for this would be unprofitable for you.
18 Pray for us, for we are convinced that we have a good conscience, and want to conduct ourselves commendably in every way. 
19 And I especially urge you to do this, so that I may be restored to you more quickly.
20 Now may the God of peace, who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant, 
21 equip you with every good thing to do his will, carrying out in us what is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory forever. Amen.
22 Now I urge you, brothers, bear with my word of exhortation, for indeed I have written to you briefly. 
23 Know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I will see you, if he comes quickly enough. 
24 Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you. 
25 Grace be with all of you.