1 Children, obey your parents in  Lord, for this is just.
2 Honour thy father and thy mother, which is the first commandment with a promise,
3 that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest be long-lived on the earth.
4 And  fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in  discipline and admonition of  Lord.
5 Bondmen, obey masters according to flesh, with fear and trembling, in simplicity of your heart as to the Christ;
6 not with eye-service as men-pleasers; but as bondmen of Christ, doing the will of God from  soul,
7 serving with good will as to the Lord, and not to men;
8 knowing that whatever good each shall do, this he shall receive of  Lord, whether bond or free.
9 And, masters, do the same things towards them, giving up threatening, knowing that both their and your Master is in heaven, and there is no acceptance of persons with him.
10 For the rest, brethren, be strong in  Lord, and in the might of his strength.
11 Put on the panoply of God, that ye may be able to stand against the artifices of the devil:
12 because our struggle is not against blood and flesh, but against principalities, against authorities, against the universal lords of this darkness, against spiritual  of wickedness in the heavenlies.
13 For this reason take [to you] the panoply of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having accomplished all things, to stand.
14 Stand therefore, having girt about your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
15 and shod your feet with  preparation of the glad tidings of peace:
16 besides all , having taken the shield of faith with which ye will be able to quench all the inflamed darts of the wicked one.
17 Have also the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is God's word;
18 praying at all seasons, with all prayer and supplication in  Spirit, and watching unto this very thing with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints;
19 and for me in order that utterance may be given to me in  opening of my mouth to make known with boldness the mystery of the glad tidings,
20 for which I am an ambassador  with a chain, that I may be bold in it as I ought to speak.
21 But in order that *ye* also may know what concerns me, how I am getting on, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in  Lord, shall make all things known to you;
22 whom I have sent to you for this very thing, that ye may know of our affairs and that he may encourage your hearts.
23 Peace to the brethren, and love with faith, from God  Father and  Lord Jesus Christ.
24 Grace with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruption.