1 And after this it came to pass that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them; and David took the power of the capital out of the hand of the Philistines.
2 And he smote the Moabites, and measured them with a line, making them lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became David's servants,  brought gifts.
3 And David smote Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion by the river Euphrates.
4 And David took from him one thousand seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David houghed all the chariot , but reserved of them  a hundred chariots.
5 And the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, and David smote of the Syrians twenty-two thousand men.
6 And David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David,  brought gifts. And Jehovah preserved David whithersoever he went.
7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.
8 And from Betah, and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much bronze.
9 And Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the forces of Hadadezer;
10 and Toi sent Joram his son to king David, to inquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and smitten him; for Hadadezer was continually at war with Toi. And he brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of bronze.
11 Them also king David dedicated to Jehovah, with the silver and the gold that he had dedicated of all the nations that he had subdued:
12 of the Syrians, and of the Moabites, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of the Amalekites, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
13 And David made him a name when he returned, after he had smitten the Syrians in the valley of salt, eighteen thousand .
14 And he put garrisons in Edom: throughout Edom did he put garrisons; and all they of Edom became servants to David. And Jehovah preserved David whithersoever he went.
15 And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed judgment and justice to all his people.
16 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was chronicler;
17 and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were the priests; and Seraiah was scribe;
18 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were chief rulers.