1 And king Solomon was king over all Israel.
2 And these are the princes whom he had: Azariah the son of Zadok was priest;
3 Elihoreph and Ahiah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, chronicler;
4 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the host; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
5 and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the superintendents; and Zabud the son of Nathan was principal officer, the king's friend;
6 and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the levy-service.
7 And Solomon had twelve superintendents over all Israel; and they provided food for the king and his household: each man his month in the year had to make provision.
8 And these are their names: Ben-Hur, in mount Ephraim.
9 Ben-Deker in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon-Beth-hanan.
10 Ben-Hesed, in Arubboth; he had Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher.
11 Ben-Abinadab had all the upland of Dor; Taphath the daughter of Solomon was his wife.
12 Baana the son of Ahilud had Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean, which is by Zaretan beneath Jizreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-Meholah, as far as beyond Jokneam.
13 Ben-Geber, in Ramoth-Gilead; he had the villages of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; he had the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bars of bronze.
14 Ahinadab the son of Iddo, at Mahanaim.
15 Ahimaaz, in Nephtali; he also took Basmath the daughter of Solomon as wife.
16 Baanah the son of Hushai, in Asher and in Aloth.
17 Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar.
18 Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin.
19 Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the land of Sihon the king of the Amorites, and of Og the king of Bashan; and [he was] the only superintendent that was in the land.
20 Judah and Israel were many, as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry.
21 And Solomon ruled over all kingdoms from the river to the land of the Philistines, and as far as the border of Egypt: they brought presents, and served Solomon all the days of his life.
22 And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and sixty measures of meal,
23 ten fatted oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and a hundred sheep, besides harts, and gazelles, and fallow-deer, and fatted fowl.
24 For he had dominion over all on this side the river, from Tiphsah as far as Gazah, over all the kings on this side the river; and he had peace on all sides round about.
25 And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig-tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon.
26 And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.
27 And those officers provided food for king Solomon, and for all who came to king Solomon's table, every man in his month: they let nothing be wanting.
28 And the barley, and the straw for the horses and coursers, they brought to the place where [the superintendents] were, every man according to his charge.
29 And God gave Solomon wisdom and very great understanding and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea-shore.
30 And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the sons of the east, and all the wisdom of Egypt.
31 For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol; and his fame was in all the nations round about.
32 And he spoke three thousand proverbs; and his songs were a thousand and five.
33 And he spoke of the trees, from the cedar-tree that is on Lebanon even to the hyssop that springs out of the wall; he spoke also of cattle, and of fowls, and of creeping things, and of fishes.
34 And there came of all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom.