1 This, a second letter, beloved, I already write to you, in  which I stir up, in the way of putting you in remembrance, your pure mind,
2 to be mindful of the words spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandment of the Lord and Saviour by your apostles;
3 knowing this first, that there shall come at  close of the days mockers with mocking, walking according to their own lusts,
4 and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? for from the time the fathers fell asleep all things remain thus from  beginning of  creation.
5 For this is hidden from them through their own wilfulness, that heavens were of old, and an earth, having its subsistence out of water and in water, by the word of God,
6 through which  the then world, deluged with water, perished.
7 But the present heavens and the earth by his word are laid up in store, kept for fire unto a day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.
8 But let not this one thing be hidden from you, beloved, that one day with  Lord  as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
9  Lord does not delay his promise, as some account of delay, but is longsuffering towards you, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.
10 But the day of  Lord will come as a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a rushing noise, and  elements, burning with heat, shall be dissolved, and  earth and the works in it shall be burnt up.
11 All these things then being to be dissolved, what ought ye to be in holy conversation and godliness,
12 waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, by reason of which  heavens, being on fire, shall be dissolved, and  elements, burning with heat, shall melt?
13 But, according to his promise, we wait for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwells righteousness.
14 Wherefore, beloved, as ye wait for these things, be diligent to be found of him in peace, without spot and blameless;
15 and account the longsuffering of our Lord [to be] salvation; according as our beloved brother Paul also has written to you according to the wisdom given to him,
16 as also in all  epistles, speaking in them of these things; among which some things are hard to be understood, which the untaught and ill-established wrest, as also the other scriptures, to their own destruction.
17 *Ye* therefore, beloved, knowing  things before, take care lest, being led away along with the error of the wicked, ye should fall from your own stedfastness:
18 but grow in grace, and in  knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him  glory both now and to  day of eternity. Amen.