1 And this is what the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the chief fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel, allotted for inheritance to them:
2 their inheritance was by lot, as Jehovah had commanded by Moses, for the nine tribes, and the half tribe.
3 For Moses had given the inheritance of the two tribes and the half tribe beyond the Jordan, but to the Levites he had given no inheritance among them.
4 For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim; and they gave no part to the Levites in the land, save cities to dwell in, and their suburbs for their cattle and for their substance.
5 As Jehovah had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did, and they divided the land.
6 Then the children of Judah came near to Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, Thou knowest the word that Jehovah spoke to Moses the man of God, concerning me and thee, in Kadesh-barnea.
7 Forty years old was I when Moses the servant of Jehovah sent me from Kadesh-barnea to search out the land; and I brought him word again as it was in my heart.
8 And my brethren that had gone up with me made the heart of the people melt; but I wholly followed Jehovah my God.
9 And Moses swore on that day, saying, The land whereon thy feet have trodden shall assuredly be thine inheritance, and thy children's for ever! for thou hast wholly followed Jehovah my God.
10 And now behold, Jehovah has kept me alive, as he said, these forty-five years, since Jehovah spoke this word to Moses, when Israel wandered in the wilderness; and now behold, I am this day eighty-five years old.
11 I am still this day strong, as in the day that Moses sent me: as my strength was then, even so is my strength now, for war, both to go out and to come in.
12 And now give me this mountain, of which Jehovah spoke in that day; for thou heardest in that day that Anakim are there, and great fortified cities. If so be Jehovah shall be with me, then I shall dispossess them, as Jehovah said.
13 And Joshua blessed him, and gave Hebron to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance.
14 Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite to this day, because he wholly followed Jehovah the God of Israel.
15 Now the name of Hebron before was Kirjath-Arba; the great man among the Anakim. And the land rested from war.