1 For ye know yourselves, brethren, our entering in which [we had] to you, that it has not been in vain;
2 but, having suffered before and been insulted, even as ye know, in Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the glad tidings of God with much earnest striving.
3 For our exhortation  not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile;
4 but even as we have been approved of God to have the glad tidings entrusted to us, so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, who proves our hearts.
5 For we have not at any time been [among you] with flattering discourse, even as ye know, nor with a pretext for covetousness, God  witness;
6 nor seeking glory from men, neither from you nor from others, when we might have been a charge as Christ's apostles;
7 but have been gentle in the midst of you, as a nurse would cherish her own children.
8 Thus, yearning over you, we had found our delight in having imparted to you not only the glad tidings of God, but our own lives also, because ye had become beloved of us.
9 For ye remember, brethren, our labour and toil: working night and day, not to be chargeable to any one of you, we have preached to you the glad tidings of God.
10 *Ye*  witnesses, and God, how piously and righteously and blamelessly we have conducted ourselves with you that believe:
11 as ye know how, as a father his own children, we used to exhort each one of you, and comfort and testify,
12 that ye should walk worthy of God, who calls you to his own kingdom and glory.
13 And for this cause we also give thanks to God unceasingly that, having received  word of  report of God by us, ye accepted, not men's word, but, even as it is truly, God's word, which also works in you who believe.
14 For *ye*, brethren, have become imitators of the assemblies of God which are in Judaea in Christ Jesus; for *ye* also have suffered the same things of your own countrymen as also *they* of the Jews,
15 who have both slain the Lord Jesus and the prophets, and have driven us out by persecution, and do not please God, and  against all men,
16 forbidding us to speak to the nations that they may be saved, that they may fill up their sins always: but wrath has come upon them to the uttermost.
17 But we, brethren, having been bereaved of you and separated for a little moment in person, not in heart, have used more abundant diligence to see your face with much desire;
18 wherefore we have desired to come to you, even I Paul, both once and twice, and Satan has hindered us.
19 For what  our hope, or joy, or crown of boasting?  not *ye* also before our Lord Jesus at his coming?
20 for ye are our glory and joy.