1 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow-worker, 
2 and to Apphia our sister, and to Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the church in thy house: 
3 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
4 I thank my God always, making mention of thee in my prayers, 
5 hearing of thy love, and of the faith which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all the saints; 
6 that the fellowship of thy faith may become effectual, in the knowledge of every good thing which is in you, unto Christ. 
7 For I had much joy and comfort in thy love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through thee, brother.
8 Wherefore, though I have all boldness in Christ to enjoin thee that which is befitting, 
9 yet for love's sake I rather beseech, being such a one as Paul the aged, and now a prisoner also of Christ Jesus: 
10 I beseech thee for my child, whom I have begotten in my bonds, Onesimus, 
11 who once was unprofitable to thee, but now is profitable to thee and to me: 
12 whom I have sent back to thee in his own person, that is, my very heart: 
13 whom I would fain have kept with me, that in thy behalf he might minister unto me in the bonds of the gospel: 
14 but without thy mind I would do nothing; that thy goodness should not be as of necessity, but of free will. 
15 For perhaps he was therefore parted from thee for a season, that thou shouldest have him for ever; 
16 no longer as a servant, but more than a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much rather to thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord. 
17 If then thou countest me a partner, receive him as myself. 
18 But if he hath wronged thee at all, or oweth thee aught, put that to mine account; 
19 I Paul write it with mine own hand, I will repay it: that I say not unto thee that thou owest to me even thine own self besides. 
20 Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my heart in Christ.
21 Having confidence in thine obedience I write unto thee, knowing that thou wilt do even beyond what I say. 
22 But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I hope that through your prayers I shall be granted unto you.
23 Epaphras, my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus, saluteth thee; 
24 and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow-workers.
25 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.