1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
2 Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If any man have a flux from his flesh, because of his flux he is unclean.
3 And this shall be his uncleanness in his flux: whether his flesh run with his flux, or his flesh be closed from his flux, it is his uncleanness.
4 Every bed whereon he lieth that hath the flux shall be unclean; and every object on which he sitteth shall be unclean.
5 And whoever toucheth his bed shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
6 And he that sitteth on any object whereon he sat that hath the flux shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
7 And he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the flux shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
8 And if he that hath the flux spit upon him that is clean, then he shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
9 And what carriage soever he rideth upon that hath the flux shall be unclean.
10 And whoever toucheth anything that was under him shall be unclean until the even; and he that carrieth them shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
11 And whomsoever he toucheth who hath the flux and hath not rinsed his hands in water—he shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
12 And the vessel of earth that he toucheth who hath the flux shall be broken; and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.
13 And when he that hath a flux is clean of his flux, then he shall count seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and he shall be clean.
14 And on the eighth day he shall take two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and come before Jehovah unto the entrance of the tent of meeting, and give them unto the priest.
15 And the priest shall offer them, one as a sin-offering, and one as a burnt-offering; and the priest shall make atonement for him before Jehovah for his flux.
16 And if any man's seed of copulation pass from him, then he shall bathe his whole flesh in water, and be unclean until the even.
17 And every garment, and every skin, whereon the seed of copulation shall be, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the even.
18 And a woman with whom a man lieth with seed of copulation—they shall bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
19 And if a woman have a flux, and her flux in her flesh be blood, she shall be seven days in her separation, and whoever toucheth her shall be unclean until the even.
20 And everything that she lieth upon in her separation shall be unclean; and everything that she sitteth upon shall be unclean.
21 And whoever toucheth her bed shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
22 And whoever toucheth any object that she sat upon shall wash his garments, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
23 And if it be on the bed, or on anything whereon she sitteth, when he toucheth it, he shall be unclean until the even.
24 And if a man lie with her at all, and the uncleanness of her separation come upon him, he shall be unclean seven days; and every bed whereon he lieth shall be unclean.
25 And if a woman have her flux of blood many days out of the time of her separation, or if she have the flux beyond the time of her separation, all the days of the flux of her uncleanness shall she be as  the days of her separation: she is unclean.
26 Every bed whereon she lieth all the days of her flux shall be unto her as the bed of her separation; and every object on which she sitteth shall be unclean, according to the uncleanness of her separation.
27 And whoever toucheth them shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe in water, and be unclean until the even.
28 And if she be cleansed of her flux then she shall count seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
29 And on the eighth day she shall take two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, and bring them unto the priest, unto the entrance of the tent of meeting.
30 And the priest shall offer the one as a sin-offering, and the other as a burnt-offering; and the priest shall make atonement for her before Jehovah for the flux of her uncleanness.
31 And ye shall separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness, that they die not in their uncleanness, when they defile my tabernacle that is in their midst.
32 This is the law for him that hath a flux, and for the one whose seed of copulation goeth from him, and who is defiled therewith:
33 and for a woman who is sick in her separation, and for him that hath his flux; for the man and for the woman, and for him that lieth with her that is unclean.