1 And it came to pass on the eighth day,  Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel,
2 and said to Aaron, Take thee a young calf for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and present  before Jehovah;
3 and to the children of Israel shalt thou speak, saying, Take a buck of the goats for a sin-offering, and a calf and a lamb, yearlings, without blemish, for a burnt-offering;
4 and a bullock and a ram for a peace-offering, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and an oblation mingled with oil; for to-day Jehovah will appear to you.
5 And they brought what Moses commanded before the tent of meeting; and all the assembly approached and stood before Jehovah.
6 And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah has commanded that ye should do; and the glory of Jehovah shall appear to you.
7 And Moses said unto Aaron, Go to the altar, and offer thy sin-offering, and thy burnt-offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for the people; and offer the offering of the people, and make atonement for them, as Jehovah has commanded.
8 And Aaron went to the altar and slaughtered the calf of the sin-offering which was for himself;
9 and the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put  on the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar.
10 And the fat, and the kidneys, and the net above the liver, of the sin-offering, he burned on the altar, as Jehovah had commanded Moses.
11 And the flesh and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp.
12 And he slaughtered the burnt-offering; and Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, which he sprinkled on the altar round about.
13 And they delivered the burnt-offering to him, in the pieces thereof, and the head; and he burned  on the altar.
14 And he washed the inwards and the legs, and burned  upon the burnt-offering, on the altar.
15 And he presented the people's offering, and took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people and slaughtered it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
16 And he presented the burnt-offering and offered it according to the ordinance.
17 And he presented the oblation, and took a handful of it, and burned it on the altar, besides the burnt-offering of the morning.
18 And he slaughtered the bullock and the ram of the sacrifice of peace-offering which was for the people. And Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, and he sprinkled it on the altar round about;
19 and the pieces of fat of the bullock and of the ram, the fat tail and what covers [the inwards], and the kidneys, and the net of the liver;
20 and they put the pieces of fat on the breast-pieces, and he burned the pieces of fat on the altar;
21 and the breast-pieces and the right shoulder Aaron waved as a wave-offering before Jehovah, as Moses had commanded.
22 And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them, and came down after the offering of the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offering.
23 And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out and blessed the people; and the glory of Jehovah appeared to all the people.
24 And there went out fire from before Jehovah, and consumed on the altar the burnt-offering, and the pieces of fat; and all the people saw it, and they shouted, and fell on their face.