1 And when any one will present an oblation to Jehovah, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil on it, and put frankincense thereon.
2 And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons, the priests; and he shall take thereout his handful of the flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall burn the memorial thereof on the altar, an offering by fire to Jehovah of a sweet odour.
3 And the remainder of the oblation shall be Aaron's and his sons': [it is] most holy of Jehovah's offerings by fire.
4 And if thou present an offering of an oblation baken in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
5 And if thine offering be an oblation  on the pan, it shall be fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
6 Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is an oblation.
7 And if thine offering be an oblation  in the cauldron, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
8 And thou shalt bring the oblation that is made of these things to Jehovah; and it shall be presented to the priest, and he shall bring it to the altar.
9 And the priest shall take from the oblation a memorial thereof, and shall burn it on the altar, an offering by fire to Jehovah of a sweet odour.
10 And the remainder of the oblation [shall be] Aaron's and his sons': [it is] most holy of Jehovah's offerings by fire.
11 No oblation which ye shall present to Jehovah shall be made with leaven; for no leaven and no honey shall ye burn  any fire-offering to Jehovah.
12 As to the offering of the first-fruits, ye shall present them to Jehovah; but they shall not be offered upon the altar for a sweet odour.
13 And every offering of thine oblation shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thine oblation: with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt.
14 And if thou present an oblation of thy first-fruits to Jehovah, thou shalt present as the oblation of thy first-fruits green ears of corn roasted in fire, corn beaten out of full ears.
15 And thou shalt put oil on it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is an oblation.
16 And the priest shall burn the memorial thereof,  of the beaten corn thereof, and  of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: [it is] an offering by fire to Jehovah.