1 And this is the law of the trespass-offering—it is most holy:
2 in the place where they slaughter the burnt-offering shall they slaughter the trespass-offering; and the blood thereof shall he sprinkle on the altar round about.
3 And he shall present of it all the fat thereof; the fat tail and the fat that covereth the inwards,
4 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the net above the liver, which he shall take away as far as the kidneys.
5 And the priest shall burn them on the altar, an offering by fire to Jehovah: it is a trespass-offering.
6 Every male among the priests shall eat thereof; in a holy place shall it be eaten: it is most holy.
7 As the sin-offering, so is the trespass-offering; [there shall] be one law for them: it shall be the priest's who maketh atonement therewith.
8 And [as to] the priest that presenteth any man's burnt-offering, the skin of the burnt-offering which he hath presented shall be the priest's for himself.
9 And every oblation that is baken in the oven, and all that is prepared in the cauldron and in the pan, shall be the priest's who offereth it; to him it shall belong.
10 And every oblation, mingled with oil, and dry, shall all the sons of Aaron have, one as the other.
11 And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace-offering, which [a man] shall present to Jehovah.
12 If he present it for a thanksgiving, then he shall present with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and fine flour saturated with oil, cakes mingled with oil.
13 Besides the cakes, he shall present his offering of leavened bread with the sacrifice of his peace-offering of thanksgiving.
14 And of it he shall present one out of the whole offering as a heave-offering to Jehovah; to the priest that sprinkleth the blood of the peace-offering, to him it shall belong.
15 And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offering of thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is presented; he shall not let any of it remain until the morning.
16 And if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or voluntary, it shall be eaten the same day that he presented his sacrifice; on the morrow also the remainder of it shall be eaten;
17 and the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned with fire.
18 And if  of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offering be eaten at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, it shall not be reckoned to him that hath presented it; it shall be an unclean thing, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity.
19 And the flesh that toucheth anything unclean shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with fire. And as to the flesh, all that are clean may eat  flesh.
20 But the soul that eateth the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offering which is for Jehovah, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from his peoples.
21 And if any one touch anything unclean, the uncleanness of man, or unclean beast, or any unclean abomination, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offering, which is for Jehovah, that soul shall be cut off from his peoples.
22 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
23 Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, No fat, of ox, or of sheep, or of goat shall ye eat.
24 But the fat of a dead carcase, and the fat of that which is torn, may be used in any other use; but ye shall in no wise eat it.
25 For whoever eateth the fat of the beast of which men present an offering by fire to Jehovah, the soul that hath eaten shall be cut off from his peoples.
26 And no blood shall ye eat in any of your dwellings, whether it be of fowl or of cattle.
27 Whatever soul it be that eateth any manner of blood, that soul shall be cut off from his peoples.
28 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
29 Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, He that presenteth the sacrifice of his peace-offering to Jehovah shall bring his offering to Jehovah of the sacrifice of his peace-offering.
30 His own hands shall bring Jehovah's offerings by fire, the fat with the breast shall he bring: the breast, that it may be waved as a wave-offering before Jehovah.
31 And the priest shall burn the fat on the altar; and the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons'.
32 And the right shoulder of the sacrifices of your peace-offerings shall ye give as a heave-offering unto the priest.
33 He of the sons of Aaron that presenteth the blood of the peace-offerings, and the fat, shall have the right shoulder for  part.
34 For the breast of the wave-offering, and the shoulder of the heave-offering, have I taken of the children of Israel from the sacrifices of their peace-offerings, and have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons from the children of Israel by an everlasting statute.
35 This is [the portion] of the anointing of Aaron and of the anointing of his sons, from Jehovah's offerings by fire, in the day  he presented them to serve Jehovah as priests,
36 which Jehovah commanded to be given them by the children of Israel in the day that he anointed them: [it is] an everlasting statute, throughout their generations.
37 This is the law of the burnt-offering, of the oblation, and of the sin-offering, and of the trespass-offering, and of the consecration-offering, and of the sacrifice of peace-offering,
38 which Jehovah commanded Moses in mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to present their offerings to Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai.