1 And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying,
2 Speak unto the children of Israel and say unto them, When any one devoteth  by a vow, the persons shall be for Jehovah according to thy valuation.
3 And thy valuation shall be of the male from twenty years old even unto sixty years old: thy valuation shall be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary;
4 and if it be of a female, thy valuation shall be thirty shekels.
5 And if it be from five years old even unto twenty years old, thy valuation of the male shall be twenty shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
6 And if it be from a month old even unto five years old, thy valuation of the male shall be five shekels of silver; and for the female thy valuation shall be three shekels of silver.
7 And if it be from sixty years old and above, if it be a male, thy valuation shall be fifteen shekels; and for the female ten shekels.
8 And if he be poorer than thy valuation, he shall present himself before the priest, and the priest shall value him: according to his means that vowed shall the priest value him.
9 And if it be a beast whereof men bring an offering unto Jehovah, all that they give of such unto Jehovah shall be holy.
10 They shall not alter it nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good; and if he at all change beast for beast, then it and the exchange thereof shall be holy.
11 And if it be any unclean beast, of which they do not bring an offering unto Jehovah, then he shall present the beast before the priest;
12 and the priest shall value it,  between good and bad: according to the valuation of the priest, so shall it be.
13 And if they will in any wise redeem it, then they shall add a fifth  thereof unto thy valuation.
14 And when any one halloweth his house, that it may be holy to Jehovah, the priest shall value it,  between good and bad: as the priest shall value it, so shall it stand.
15 And if he that halloweth it will redeem his house, he shall add the fifth of the money of thy valuation unto it, and it shall be his.
16 And if a man hallow to Jehovah  of a field of his possession, thy valuation shall be according to what may be sown in it: the homer of barley seed at fifty shekels of silver.
17 If he hallow his field from the year of jubilee, according to thy valuation shall it stand;
18 but if he hallow his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall reckon unto him the money according to the years that remain, until the year of the jubilee; and there shall be a reduction from thy valuation.
19 And if he that hallowed the field will in any wise redeem it, he shall add the fifth of the money of thy valuation unto it, and it shall be assured to him;
20 but if he do not redeem the field, or if he sell the field to another man, it cannot be redeemed any more;
21 and the field, when it goeth out in the jubilee, shall be holy to Jehovah, as a field devoted; the possession thereof shall be the priest's.
22 And if he hallow to Jehovah a field that he hath bought, which is not of the fields of his possession,
23 the priest shall reckon unto him the amount of thy valuation, unto the year of the jubilee; and he shall give thy valuation on that day,  holy to Jehovah.
24 In the year of the jubilee the field shall return unto him of whom it was bought—to him to whom the land belonged.
25 And all thy valuation shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.
26 Only the firstling which is offered as firstling to Jehovah among the cattle, that shall no man hallow, whether it be ox or sheep; it is Jehovah's.
27 But if it be of an unclean beast, then he shall ransom it according to thy valuation, and shall add a fifth of it thereto; and if it be not redeemed, it shall be sold according to thy valuation.
28 Notwithstanding, no devoted thing that a man hath devoted to Jehovah of all that he hath, of man or beast, or of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy to Jehovah.
29 Nothing devoted, which shall be devoted from among men, shall be ransomed: it shall certainly be put to death.
30 And as to every tithe of the land, of the seed of the land, and of the fruit of the tree, it is Jehovah's: it is holy to Jehovah.
31 And if any one will at all redeem of his tithes, he shall add thereto the fifth thereof.
32 And as to every tithe of the herd, or of the flock, of whatever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy to Jehovah.
33 He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he change it; and if he change it at all, then both it and the exchange thereof shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.
34 These are the commandments which Jehovah commanded Moses for the children of Israel upon mount Sinai.