1 And if his offering be a sacrifice of peace-offering,—if he present  of the herd, whether a male or female, he shall present it without blemish before Jehovah.
2 And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and slaughter it at the entrance of the tent of meeting; and Aaron's sons, the priests, shall sprinkle the blood on the altar round about.
3 And he shall present of the sacrifice of peace-offering an offering by fire to Jehovah; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
4 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the net above the liver which he shall take away as far as the kidneys;
5 and Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt-offering which  on the wood that is upon the fire: [it is] an offering by fire to Jehovah of a sweet odour.
6 And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace-offering to Jehovah be of small cattle, male or female, he shall present it without blemish.
7 If he present a sheep for his offering, then shall he present it before Jehovah,
8 and shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and slaughter it before the tent of meeting; and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.
9 And he shall present of the sacrifice of peace-offering an offering by fire to Jehovah; the fat thereof, the whole fat tail, which he shall take off close by the backbone, and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards,
10 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the net above the liver which he shall take away as far as the kidneys;
11 and the priest shall burn it on the altar: [it is] the food of the offering by fire to Jehovah.
12 And if his offering be a goat, then he shall present it before Jehovah.
13 And he shall lay his hand on the head of it, and slaughter it before the tent of meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof on the altar round about.
14 And he shall present thereof his offering, an offering by fire to Jehovah; the fat that covereth the inwards and all the fat that is on the inwards,
15 and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the net above the liver which he shall take away as far as the kidneys;
16 and the priest shall burn them on the altar: [it is] the food of the offering by fire for a sweet odour. All the fat [shall be] Jehovah's.
17 [It is] an everlasting statute for your generations throughout all your dwellings: no fat and no blood shall ye eat.