1 As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, So honour  not comely for a fool.
2 As a bird by wandering, as a swallow by flying, So reviling without cause doth not come.
3 A whip is for a horse, a bridle for an ass, And a rod for the back of fools.
4 Answer not a fool according to his folly, Lest thou be like to him -- even thou.
5 Answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he be wise in his own eyes.
6 He is cutting off feet, he is drinking injury, Who is sending things by the hand of a fool.
7 Weak have been the two legs of the lame, And a parable in the mouth of fools.
8 As one who is binding a stone in a sling, So  he who is giving honour to a fool.
9 A thorn hath gone up into the hand of a drunkard, And a parable in the mouth of fools.
10 Great  the Former of all, And He is rewarding a fool, And is rewarding transgressors.
11 As a dog hath returned to its vomit, A fool is repeating his folly.
12 Thou hast seen a man wise in his own eyes, More hope of a fool than of him!
13 The slothful hath said, `A lion  in the way, A lion  in the broad places.'
14 The door turneth round on its hinge, And the slothful on his bed.
15 The slothful hath hid his hand in a dish, He is weary of bringing it back to his mouth.
16 Wiser  the slothful in his own eyes, Than seven  returning a reason.
17 Laying hold on the ears of a dog,  a passer-by making himself wrath for strife not his own.
18 As  pretending to be feeble, Who is casting sparks, arrows, and death,
19 So hath a man deceived his neighbour, And hath said, `Am not I playing?'
20 Without wood is fire going out, And without a tale-bearer, contention ceaseth,
21 Coal to burning coals, and wood to fire, And a man of contentions to kindle strife.
22 The words of a tale-bearer  as self-inflicted wounds, And they have gone down  the inner parts of the heart.
23 Silver of dross spread over potsherd,  burning lips and an evil heart.
24 By his lips doth a hater dissemble, And in his heart he placeth deceit,
25 When his voice is gracious trust not in him, For seven abominations  in his heart.
26 Hatred is covered by deceit, Revealed is its wickedness in an assembly.
27 Whoso is digging a pit falleth into it, And the roller of a stone, to him it turneth.
28 A lying tongue hateth its bruised ones, And a flattering mouth worketh an overthrow!