1 Words of a Gatherer, son of an obedient one, the declaration, an affirmation of the man: -- I have wearied myself  God, I have wearied myself  God, and am consumed.
2 For I am more brutish than any one, And have not the understanding of a man.
3 Nor have I learned wisdom, Yet the knowledge of Holy Ones I know.
4 Who went up to heaven, and cometh down? Who hath gathered the wind in his fists? Who hath bound waters in a garment? Who established all ends of the earth? What  His name? and what His son's name? Surely thou knowest!
5 Every saying of God  tried, A shield He  to those trusting in Him.
6 Add not to His words, lest He reason with thee, And thou hast been found false.
7 Two things I have asked from Thee, Withhold not from me before I die.
8 Vanity and a lying word put far from me, Poverty or wealth give not to me, Cause me to eat the bread of my portion,
9 Lest I become satiated, and have denied, And have said, `Who  Jehovah?' And lest I be poor, and have stolen, And have laid hold of the name of my God.
10 Accuse not a servant unto his lord, Lest he disesteem thee, and thou be found guilty.
11 A generation , that lightly esteemeth their father, And their mother doth not bless.
12 A generation -- pure in their own eyes, But from their own filth not washed.
13 A generation -- how high are their eyes, Yea, their eyelids are lifted up.
14 A generation -- swords  their teeth, And knives -- their jaw-teeth, To consume the poor from earth, And the needy from  men.
15 To the leech  two daughters, `Give, give, Lo, three things are not satisfied, Four have not said `Sufficiency;'
16 Sheol, and a restrained womb, Earth -- it  not satisfied  water, And fire -- it hath not said, `Sufficiency,'
17 An eye that mocketh at a father, And despiseth to obey a mother, Dig it out do ravens of the valley, And eat it do young eagles.
18 Three things have been too wonderful for me, Yea, four that I have not known:
19 The way of the eagle in the heavens, The way of a serpent on a rock, The way of a ship in the heart of the sea, And the way of a man in youth.
20 So -- the way of an adulterous woman, She hath eaten and hath wiped her mouth, And hath said, `I have not done iniquity.'
21 For three things hath earth been troubled, And for four -- it is not able to bear:
22 For a servant when he reigneth, And a fool when he is satisfied with bread,
23 For a hated one when she ruleth, And a maid-servant when she succeedeth her mistress.
24 Four  little ones of earth, And they are made wiser than the wise:
25 The ants  a people not strong, And they prepare in summer their food,
26 Conies  a people not strong, And they place in a rock their house,
27 A king there is not to the locust, And it goeth out -- each one shouting,
28 A spider with two hands taketh hold, And is in the palaces of a king.
29 Three there are going well, Yea, four are good in going:
30 An old lion -- mighty among beasts, That turneth not back from the face of any,
31 A girt one of the loins, or a he-goat, And a king -- no rising up with him.
32 If thou hast been foolish in lifting up thyself, And if thou hast devised evil -- hand to mouth!
33 For the churning of milk bringeth out butter, And the wringing of the nose bringeth out blood, And the forcing of anger bringeth out strife!