1 And David gathered again every chosen one in Israel, thirty thousand,
2 and David riseth and goeth, and all the people who  with him, from Baale-Judah, to bring up thence the ark of God, whose name hath been called -- the name of Jehovah of Hosts, inhabiting the cherubs -- upon it.
3 And they cause the ark of God to ride on a new cart, and lift it up from the house of Abinadab, which  in the height, and Uzzah and Ahio sons of Abinadab are leading the new cart;
4 and they lift it up from the house of Abinadab, which  in the height, with the ark of God, and Ahio is going before the ark,
5 and David and all the house of Israel are playing before Jehovah, with all kinds of  of fir-wood, even with harps, and with psalteries, and with timbrels, and with cornets, and with cymbals.
6 And they come unto the threshing-floor of Nachon, and Uzzah putteth forth [his hand] unto the ark of God, and layeth hold on it, for they released the oxen;
7 and the anger of Jehovah burneth against Uzzah, and God smiteth him there for the error, and he dieth there by the ark of God.
8 And it is displeasing to David, because that Jehovah hath broken forth a breach upon Uzzah, and  calleth that place Perez-Uzzah, unto this day;
9 and David feareth Jehovah on that day, and saith, `How doth the ark of Jehovah come in unto me?'
10 And David hath not been willing to turn aside unto himself the ark of Jehovah, to the city of David, and David turneth it aside to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite,
11 and the ark of Jehovah doth inhabit the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite three months, and Jehovah blesseth Obed-Edom and all his house.
12 And it is declared to king David, saying, `Jehovah hath blessed the house of Obed-Edom, and all that he hath, because of the ark of God;' and David goeth and bringeth up the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom to the city of David with joy.
13 And it cometh to pass, when those bearing the ark of Jehovah have stepped six steps, that he sacrificeth an ox and a fatling.
14 And David is dancing with all strength before Jehovah, and David is girded with a linen ephod,
15 and David and all the house of Israel are bringing up the ark of Jehovah with shouting, and with the voice of a trumpet,
16 and it hath come to pass, the ark of Jehovah hath come in to the city of David, and Michal daughter of Saul, hath looked through the window, and seeth king David moving and dancing before Jehovah, and despiseth him in her heart.
17 And they bring in the ark of Jehovah, and set it up in its place, in the midst of the tent which David hath spread out for it, and David causeth to ascend burnt-offerings before Jehovah, and peace-offerings.
18 And David finisheth from causing to ascend the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings, and blesseth the people in the name of Jehovah of Hosts,
19 and he apportioneth to all the people, to all the multitude of Israel, from man even unto woman, to each, one cake of bread, and one eshpar, and one ashisha, and all the people go, each to his house.
20 And David turneth back to bless his house, and Michal daughter of Saul goeth out to meet David, and saith, `How honourable to-day was the king of Israel, who was uncovered to-day before the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain ones is openly uncovered!'
21 And David saith unto Michal, `-- Before Jehovah, who fixed on me above thy father, and above all his house, to appoint me leader over the people of Jehovah, and over Israel, -- yea, I played before Jehovah;
22 and I have been more vile than this, and have been low in mine eyes, and with the handmaids whom thou hast spoken of, with them I am honoured.'
23 As to Michal daughter of Saul, she had no child till the day of her death.