1 And it cometh to pass afterwards that Absalom son of David hath a fair sister, and her name  Tamar, and Amnon son of David loveth her.
2 And Amnon hath distress -- even to become sick, because of Tamar his sister, for she  a virgin, and it is hard in the eyes of Amnon to do anything to her.
3 And Amnon hath a friend, and his name  Jonadab, son of Shimeah, David's brother, and Jonadab  a very wise man,
4 and saith to him, `Wherefore  thou thus lean, O king's son, morning by morning? dost thou not declare to me?' And Amnon saith to him, `Tamar -- sister of Absalom my brother -- I am loving.'
5 And Jonadab saith to him, `Lie down on thy couch, and feign thyself sick, and thy father hath come in to see thee, and thou hast said unto him, `Let, I pray thee, Tamar my sister come in and give me bread to eat; and she hath made the food before mine eyes so that I see , and have eaten from her hand.'
6 And Amnon lieth down, and feigneth himself sick, and the king cometh in to see him, and Amnon saith unto the king, `Let, I pray thee, Tamar my sister come, and she maketh before mine eyes two cakes, and I eat from her hand.'
7 And David sendeth unto Tamar, to the house, saying, `Go, I pray thee, to the house of Amnon thy brother, and make for him food.'
8 And Tamar goeth to the house of Amnon her brother, and he is lying down, and she taketh the dough, and kneadeth, and maketh cakes before his eyes, and cooketh the cakes,
9 and taketh the frying-pan, and poureth out before him, and he refuseth to eat, and Amnon saith, `Take ye out every one from me;' and they go out every one from him.
10 And Amnon saith unto Tamar, `Bring the food into the inner chamber, and I eat from thy hand;' and Tamar taketh the cakes that she hath made, and bringeth in to Amnon her brother, into the inner chamber,
11 and she bringeth nigh unto him to eat, and he layeth hold on her, and saith to her, `Come, lie with me, my sister.'
12 And she saith to him, `Nay, my brother, do not humble me, for it is not done so in Israel; do not this folly.
13 And I -- whither do I cause my reproach to go? and thou -- thou art as one of the fools in Israel; and now, speak, I pray thee, unto the king; for he doth not withhold me from thee.'
14 And he hath not been willing to hearken to her voice, and is stronger than she, and humbleth her, and lieth with her.
15 And Amnon hateth her -- a very great hatred -- that greater  the hatred with which he hath hated her than the love with which he loved her, and Amnon saith to her, `Rise, go.'
16 And she saith to him, `Because of the circumstances this evil is greater than the other that thou hast done with me -- to send me away;' and he hath not been willing to hearken to her,
17 and calleth his young man, his servant, and saith, `Send away, I pray thee, this one from me without, and bolt the door after her;'
18 -- and upon her  a long coat, for such upper robes do daughters of the king who  virgins put on, -- and his servant taketh her out without, and hath bolted the door after her.
19 And Tamar taketh ashes for her head, and the long coat that  on her she hath rent, and putteth her hand on her head, and goeth, going on and crying;
20 and Absalom her brother saith unto her, `Hath Amnon thy brother been with thee? and now, my sister, keep silent, he  thy brother; set not thy heart to this thing;' and Tamar dwelleth -- but desolate -- in the house of Absalom her brother.
21 And king David hath heard all these things, and it is very displeasing to him;
22 and Absalom hath not spoken with Amnon either evil or good, for Absalom is hating Amnon, because that he humbled Tamar his sister.
23 And it cometh to pass, after two years of days, that Absalom hath shearers in Baal-Hazor, which  with Ephraim, and Absalom calleth for all the sons of the king.
24 And Absalom cometh unto the king, and saith, `Lo, I pray thee, thy servant hath shearers, let the king go, I pray thee, and his servants, with thy servant.'
25 And the king saith unto Absalom, `Nay, my son, let us not all go, I pray thee, and we are not too heavy on thee;' and he presseth on him, and he hath not been willing to go, and he blesseth him.
26 And Absalom saith, `If not -- let, I pray thee, Amnon my brother go with us;' and the king saith to him, `Why doth he go with thee?'
27 and Absalom urgeth on him, and he sendeth with him Amnon, and all the sons of the king.
28 And Absalom commandeth his young men, saying, `See, I pray thee, when the heart of Amnon  glad with wine, and I have said unto you, Smite Amnon, that ye have put him to death; fear not; is it not because I have commanded you? be strong, yea, become sons of valour.'
29 And the young men of Absalom do to Amnon as Absalom commanded, and rise do all the sons of the king, and they ride, each on his mule, and flee.
30 And it cometh to pass -- they  in the way -- and the report hath come unto David, saying, `Absalom hath smitten all the sons of the king, and there is not left of them one;'
31 and the king riseth, and rendeth his garments, and lieth on the earth, and all his servants are standing by  rent garments.
32 And Jonadab son of Shimeah, David's brother, answereth and saith, `Let not my lord say, The whole of the young men, the sons of the king, they have put to death; for Amnon alone  dead, for by the command of Absalom it hath been appointed from the day of his humbling Tamar his sister;
33 and now, let not my lord the king lay unto his heart the word, saying, All the sons of the king have died, for Amnon alone  dead.'
34 And Absalom fleeth, and the young man who is watching lifteth up his eyes and looketh, and lo, much people are coming by the way behind him, on the side of the hill.
35 And Jonadab saith unto the king, `Lo, the sons of the king have come; as the word of thy servant, so it hath been.'
36 And it cometh to pass at his finishing to speak, that lo, the sons of the king have come, and they lift up their voice, and weep, and also the king and all his servants have wept -- a very great weeping.
37 And Absalom hath fled, and goeth unto Talmai, son of Ammihud, king of Geshur, and  mourneth for his son all the days.
38 And Absalom hath fled, and goeth to Geshur, and is there three years;
39 and [the soul of] king David determineth to go out unto Absalom, for he hath been comforted for Amnon, for [he is] dead.