1 &lt;To the chief music-maker. Of the sons of Korah Maschil.&gt; It has come to our ears, O God, our fathers have given us the story, of the works which you did in their days, in the old times,
2 Uprooting the nations with your hand, and planting our fathers in their place; cutting down the nations, but increasing the growth of your people.
3 For they did not make the land theirs by their swords, and it was not their arms which kept them safe; but your right hand, and your arm, and the light of your face, because you had pleasure in them.
4 You are my King and my God; ordering salvation for Jacob.
5 Through you will we overcome our haters; by your name will they be crushed under our feet who are violent against us.
6 I will not put faith in my bow, my sword will not be my salvation.
7 But it is you who have been our saviour from those who were against us, and have put to shame those who had hate for us.
8 Our pride is in God at all times, to his name we give praise for ever. (Selah.)
9 But now you have sent us away from you, and put us to shame; you do not go out with our armies.
10 Because of this we are turned back by the attacker: those who have hate for us take our goods for themselves.
11 You have made us like sheep which are taken for meat; we are put to flight among the nations.
12 You let your people go for nothing; your wealth is not increased by their price.
13 You have made us to be looked down on by our neighbours, we are laughed at and shamed by those who are round about us.
14 Our name is a word of shame among the nations, a sign for the shaking of heads among the peoples.
15 My downfall is ever before me, and I am covered with the shame of my face;
16 Because of the voice of him who says sharp and bitter words; because of the hater and him who is the instrument of punishment.
17 All this has come on us, but still we have kept you in our memory; and we have not been false to your word.
18 Our hearts have not gone back, and our steps have not been turned out of your way;
19 Though you have let us be crushed in the place of jackals, though we are covered with darkest shade.
20 If the name of our God has gone out of our minds, or if our hands have been stretched out to a strange god,
21 Will not God make search for it? for he sees the secrets of the heart.
22 Truly, because of you we are put to death every day; we are numbered like sheep for destruction.
23 Why are you sleeping, O Lord? awake! and come to our help, do not give us up for ever.
24 Why is your face covered, and why do you give no thought to our trouble and our cruel fate?
25 For our souls are crushed down to the dust: our bodies are stretched out on the earth.
26 Up! and come to our help, and give us salvation because of your mercy.
