1 &lt;A Psalm. Of David. To keep in memory.&gt; O Lord, be not bitter with me in your wrath; let not your hand be on me in the heat of your passion.
2 For your arrows have gone into my flesh, and I am crushed under the weight of your hand.
3 My flesh is wasted because of your wrath; and there is no peace in my bones because of my sin.
4 For my crimes have gone over my head; they are like a great weight which is more than my strength.
5 My wounds are poisoned and evil-smelling, because of my foolish behaviour.
6 I am troubled, I am made low; I go weeping all the day.
7 For my body is full of burning; all my flesh is unhealthy.
8 I am feeble and crushed down; I gave a cry like a lion because of the grief in my heart.
9 Lord, all my desire is before you; my sorrow is not kept secret from you.
10 My heart goes out in pain, my strength is wasting away; as for the light of my eyes, it is gone from me.
11 My lovers and my friends keep away from my disease; my relations keep far away.
12 Those who have a desire to take my life put nets for me; those who are designing my destruction say evil things against me, all the day their minds are full of deceit.
13 But I kept my ears shut like a man without hearing; like a man without a voice, never opening his mouth.
14 So I was like a man whose ears are shut, and in whose mouth there are no sharp words.
15 In you, O Lord, is my hope: you will give me an answer, O Lord, my God.
16 I said, Let them not be glad over me; when my foot is moved, let them not be lifted up with pride against me.
17 My feet are near to falling, and my sorrow is ever before me.
18 I will make clear my wrongdoing, with sorrow in my heart for my sin.
19 But they are strong who have hate for me without cause: those who are against me falsely are increased in numbers.
20 They give me back evil for good; they are my haters because I go after the thing which is right.
21 Do not give me up, O Lord; O my God, be near to me.
22 Come quickly to give me help, O Lord, my salvation.
