1 &lt;To the chief music-maker. Of David. A Psalm. A Song.&gt; Let God be seen, and let his haters be put to flight; let those who are against him be turned back before him.
2 Let them be like smoke before the driving wind; as wax turning soft before the fire, so let them come to an end before the power of God.
3 But let the upright be glad; let them have delight before God; let them be full of joy.
4 Make songs to God, make songs of praise to his name; make a way for him who comes through the waste lands; his name is Jah; be glad before him.
5 A father to those who have no father, a judge of the widows, is God in his holy place.
6 Those who are without friends, God puts in families; he makes free those who are in chains; but those who are turned away from him are given a dry land.
7 O God, when you went out before your people, wandering through the waste land; (Selah.)
8 The earth was shaking and the heavens were streaming, because God was present; even Sinai itself was moved before God, the God of Israel.
9 You, O God, did freely send the rain, giving strength to the weariness of your heritage.
10 Those whose resting-place was there, even the poor, were comforted by your good things, O God.
11 The Lord gives the word; great is the number of the women who make it public.
12 Kings of armies quickly go in flight: and the women in the houses make a division of their goods.
13 Will you take your rest among the flocks? like the wings of a dove covered with silver, and its feathers with yellow gold.
14 When the Most High put the kings to flight, it was as white as snow in Salmon.
15 A hill of God is the hill of Bashan; a hill with high tops is the hill of Bashan.
16 Why are you looking with envy, you high hills, on the hill desired by God as his resting-place? truly, God will make it his house for ever.
17 The war-carriage of God is among Israel's thousands; the Lord has come from Sinai to the holy place.
18 You have gone up on high, taking your prisoners with you; you have taken offerings from men; the Lord God has taken his place on the seat of his power.
19 Praise be to the Lord, who is our support day by day, even the God of our salvation. (Selah.)
20 Our God is for us a God of salvation; his are the ways out of death.
21 The heads of the haters of God will be crushed; even the head of him who still goes on in his evil ways.
22 The Lord said, I will make them come back from Bashan, and from the deep parts of the sea;
23 So that your foot may be red with blood, and the tongues of your dogs with the same.
24 We see your going, O God: even the going of my God, my King, into the holy place.
25 The makers of songs go before, the players of music come after, among the young girls playing on brass instruments.
26 Give praise to God in the great meeting; even the Lord, you who come from the fountain of Israel.
27 There is little Benjamin ruling them, the chiefs of Judah and their army, the rulers of Zebulun and the rulers of Naphtali.
28 O God, send out your strength; the strength, O God, with which you have done great things for us,
29 Out of your Temple in Jerusalem.
30 Say sharp words to the beast among the water-plants, the band of strong ones, with the lords of the peoples, put an end to the people whose delight is in war.
31 Kings will give you offerings, they will come out of Egypt; from Pathros will come offerings of silver; Ethiopia will be stretching out her hands to God.
32 Make songs to God, you kingdoms of the earth; O make songs of praise to the Lord; (Selah.)
33 To him who goes or the clouds of heaven, the heaven which was from earliest times; he sends out his voice of power.
34 Make clear that strength is God's: he is lifted up over Israel, and his power is in the clouds.
35 O God, you are to be feared in your holy place: the God of Israel gives strength and power to his people. Praise be to God.
