1 Truly, God is good to Israel, even to such as are clean in heart.
2 But as for me, my feet had almost gone from under me; I was near to slipping;
3 Because of my envy of the men of pride, when I saw the well-being of the wrongdoers.
4 For they have no pain; their bodies are fat and strong.
5 They are not in trouble as others are; they have no part in the unhappy fate of men.
6 For this reason pride is round them like a chain; they are clothed with violent behaviour as with a robe.
7 Their eyes are bursting with fat; they have more than their heart's desire.
8 Their thoughts are deep with evil designs; their talk from their seats of power is of cruel acts.
9 Their mouth goes up to heaven; their tongues go walking through the earth.
10 For this reason they are full of bread; and water is ever flowing for them.
11 And they say, How will the Lord see this? is there knowledge in the Most High?
12 Truly, such are the sinners; they do well at all times, and their wealth is increased.
13 As for me, I have made my heart clean to no purpose, washing my hands in righteousness;
14 For I have been troubled all the day; every morning have I undergone punishment.
15 If I would make clear what it is like, I would say, You are false to the generation of your children.
16 When my thoughts were turned to see the reason of this, it was a weariness in my eyes;
17 Till I went into God's holy place, and saw the end of the evil-doers.
18 You put their feet where there was danger of slipping, so that they go down into destruction.
19 How suddenly are they wasted! fears are the cause of their destruction.
20 As a dream when one is awake, they are ended; they are like an image gone out of mind when sleep is over.
21 My heart was made bitter, and I was pained by the bite of grief:
22 As for me, I was foolish, and without knowledge; I was like a beast before you.
23 But still I am ever with you; you have taken me by my right hand.
24 Your wisdom will be my guide, and later you will put me in a place of honour.
25 Whom have I in heaven but you? and having you I have no desire for anything on earth.
26 My flesh and my heart are wasting away: but God is the Rock of my heart and my eternal heritage.
27 For those who are far away from you will come to destruction: you will put an end to all those who have not kept faith with you.
28 But it is good for me to come near to God: I have put my faith in the Lord God, so that I may make clear all his works.
