1 O give praise to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
2 O give praise to the God of gods: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
3 O give praise to the Lord of lords: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
4 To him who only does great wonders: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
5 To him who by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
6 To him by whom the earth was stretched out over the waters: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
7 To him who made great lights: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
8 The sun to have rule by day: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
9 The moon and the stars to have rule by night: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
10 To him who put to death the first-fruits of Egypt: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
11 And took out Israel from among them: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
12 With a strong hand and an outstretched arm: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
13 To him who made a way through the Red Sea: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
14 And let Israel go through it: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
15 By him Pharaoh and his army were overturned in the Red Sea: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
16 To him who took his people through the waste land: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
17 To him who overcame great kings: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
18 And put noble kings to death: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
19 Sihon, king of the Amorites: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
20 And Og, king of Bashan: for his mercy is unchanging for ever:
21 And gave their land to his people for a heritage: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
22 Even a heritage for his servant Israel: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
23 Who kept us in mind when we were in trouble: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
24 And has taken us out of the hands of our haters: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
25 Who gives food to all flesh: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
26 O give praise to the God of heaven: for his mercy is unchanging for ever.
