1 And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened himself against Israel.
2 And he placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that Asa his father had taken.
3 And Jehovah was with Jehoshaphat, for he walked in the first ways of his father David, and sought not unto the Baals;
4 but he sought the God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel.
5 And Jehovah established the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah gave gifts to Jehoshaphat; and he had riches and honour in abundance.
6 And he took courage in the ways of Jehovah; moreover, he removed the high places and Asherahs out of Judah.
7 And in the third year of his reign he sent his princes, Ben-hail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethaneel, and Micah, to teach in the cities of Judah;
8 and with them the Levites: Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tob-Adonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests.
9 And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of Jehovah with them; and they went about through all the cities of Judah, and taught among the people.
10 And the terror of Jehovah was upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah, and they made no war against Jehoshaphat.
11 And some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat gifts and tribute-silver. The Arabians also brought him flocks, seven thousand seven hundred rams, and seven thousand seven hundred he-goats.
12 And Jehoshaphat waxed exceeding great; and he built in Judah castles and store-cities.
13 And he had much business in the cities of Judah; and men of war, strong and valiant, in Jerusalem.
14 And these are the numbers of them according to their fathers' houses. Of Judah the captains of thousands: Adnah the captain, and with him three hundred thousand mighty men of valour;
15 and next to him was Johanan the captain, and with him two hundred and eighty thousand;
16 and next to him, Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to Jehovah; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valour.
17 And of Benjamin: Eliada, a mighty man of valour, and with him two hundred thousand, armed with bow and shield;
18 and next to him was Jehozabad, and with him a hundred and eighty thousand ready prepared for war.
19 These were they that waited on the king, besides those that the king had put in the fortified cities throughout Judah.