1 And he made a brazen altar: its length was twenty cubits, and its breadth twenty cubits, and its height ten cubits.
2 And he made the sea, molten, ten cubits from brim to brim, round all about; and its height was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits encompassed it round about.
3 And under it was the similitude of oxen, encompassing it round about, ten in a cubit enclosing the sea round about, two rows of oxen, cast when it was cast.
4 It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east; and the sea was above upon them, and all their hinder parts were inward.
5 And its thickness was a hand-breadth, and its brim like the work of the brim of a cup, with lily-blossoms; in capacity it held three thousand baths.
6 And he made ten lavers, and put five on the right and five on the left, to wash in them: they rinsed in them what they prepared for the burnt-offering; and the sea was for the priests to wash in.
7 And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to the ordinance respecting them, and set them in the temple, five on the right hand and five on the left.
8 And he made ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on the right hand and five on the left. And he made a hundred golden bowls.
9 And he made the court of the priests, and the great court, and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors thereof with bronze.
10 And he set the sea on the right side eastward, over against the south.
11 And Huram made the pots and the shovels and the bowls. So Huram ended doing the work that he made for king Solomon in the house of God:
12 two pillars, and the globes and the capitals on the top of the pillars, two; and the two networks, to cover the two globes of the capitals which were on the top of the pillars;
13 and the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, two rows of pomegranates for one network, to cover the two globes of the capitals which were upon the pillars.
14 And he made the bases, and he made the lavers on the bases;
15 one sea, and the twelve oxen under it.
16 And the pots, and the shovels, and the forks, and all their instruments did Huram Abiv make king Solomon for the house of Jehovah, of bright brass.
17 In the plain of the Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay-ground between Succoth and Zeredathah.
18 And Solomon made all these vessels in great number; for the weight of the brass was not ascertained.
19 And Solomon made all the vessels that were  the house of God: the golden altar; and the tables whereon was the shewbread;
20 and the candlesticks with their lamps to burn according to the ordinance before the oracle, of pure gold;
21 and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, of gold (it was perfect gold);
22 and the knives, and the bowls, and the cups, and the censers, of pure gold; and the entrance of the house, the inner folding-doors thereof for the most holy place, and the doors of the house, of the temple, of gold.