1 Therefore, because Christ suffered in the flesh, you also equip yourselves with the same way of thinking, because the one who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, 
2 in order to live the remaining time in the flesh no longer for human desires, but for the will of God. 
3 For the time that has passed was sufficient to do what the Gentiles desire to do, having lived in licentiousness, evil desires, drunkenness, carousing, drinking parties, and wanton idolatries, 
4 with respect to which they are surprised when you do not run with them into the same flood of dissipation, and so they revile you. 
5 They will give an account to the one who is ready to judge the living and the dead. 
6 Because for this reason also the gospel was preached to those who are dead, so that they were judged by human standards in the flesh, but they may live in the spirit by God's standards.
7 Now the end of all things draws near. Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for your prayers. 
8 Above all, keep your love for one another constant, because love covers a large number of sins. 
9 Be hospitable to one another without complaining. 
10 Just as each one has received a gift, use it for serving one another, as good stewards of the varied grace of God. 
11 If anyone speaks, let it be as the oracles of God; if anyone serves, let it be as by the strength that God provides, so that in all things God will be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen.
12 Dear friends, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal among you, when it takes place to test you, as if something strange were happening to you. 
13 But to the degree that you share in the sufferings of Christ, rejoice, so that also at the revelation of his glory you may rejoice and be glad. 
14 If you are reviled on account of the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the Spirit of glory and of God rests on you. 
15 By all means do not let anyone of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. 
16 But if someone suffers as a Christian, he must not be ashamed, but must glorify God with this name. 
17 For it is the time for the judgment to begin out from the household of God. But if it begins out from us first, what will be the outcome for those who are disobedient to the gospel of God? 
18 And if the righteous are saved with difficulty, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? 
19 So then also those who suffer according to the will of God must entrust their souls to a faithful Creator in doing good.