1 And there is a word of Jehovah unto Jonah son of Amittai, saying:
2 `Rise, go unto Nineveh, the great city, and proclaim against it that their wickedness hath come up before Me.'
3 And Jonah riseth to flee to Tarshish from the face of Jehovah, and goeth down  Joppa, and findeth a ship going  Tarshish, and he giveth its fare, and goeth down into it, to go with them to Tarshish from the face of Jehovah.
4 And Jehovah hath cast a great wind on the sea, and there is a great tempest in the sea, and the ship hath reckoned to be broken;
5 and the mariners are afraid, and cry each unto his god, and cast the goods that  in the ship into the sea, to make  light of them; and Jonah hath gone down unto the sides of the vessel, and he lieth down, and is fast asleep.
6 And the chief of the company draweth near to him, and saith to him, `What -- to thee, O sleeper? rise, call unto thy God, it may be God doth bethink himself of us, and we do not perish.'
7 And they say each unto his neighbour, `Come, and we cast lots, and we know on whose account this evil  on us.' And they cast lots, and the lot falleth on Jonah.
8 And they say unto him, `Declare to us, we pray thee, on what account this evil  on us? what  thine occupation, and whence comest thou? what  thy country, seeing thou art not of this people?'
9 And he saith unto them, `A Hebrew I , and Jehovah, God of the heavens, I am reverencing, who made the sea and the dry land.'
10 And the men fear a great fear, and say unto him, `What  this thou hast done!' for the men have known that from the face of Jehovah he is fleeing, for he hath told them.
11 And they say unto him, `What do we do to thee that the sea may cease from us, for the sea is more and more tempestuous?'
12 And he saith unto them, `Lift me up, and cast me into the sea, and the sea doth cease from you; for I know that on my account this great tempest  upon you.'
13 And the men row to turn back unto the dry land, and are not able, for the sea is more and more tempestuous against them.
14 And they cry unto Jehovah, and say, `We pray Thee, O Jehovah, let us not, we pray Thee, perish for this man's life, and do not lay on us innocent blood, for Thou, Jehovah, as Thou hast pleased, Thou hast done.'
15 And they lift up Jonah, and cast him into the sea, and the sea ceaseth from its raging;
16 and the men fear Jehovah -- a great fear, and sacrifice a sacrifice to Jehovah, and vow vows.
17 And Jehovah appointeth a great fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah is in the bowels of the fish three days and three nights.