1 Therefore become imitators of God, as beloved children, 
2 and live in love, just as also Christ loved us, and gave himself for us an offering and sacrifice to God for a fragrant smell. 
3 But sexual immorality, and all uncleanness, or greediness, must not even be named among you (as is fitting for saints), 
4 and obscenity, and foolish talk, or coarse jesting (which are not proper), but rather thanksgiving. 
5 For this you know for certain, that every sexually immoral person, or unclean person, or greedy person (who is an idolater), does not have an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. 
6 Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God is coming on the sons of disobedience.
7 Therefore do not be sharers with them, 
8 for you were formerly darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live like children of light 
9 (for the fruit of the light is in all goodness and righteousness and truth), 
10 trying to learn what is well-pleasing to the Lord. 
11 And do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather even expose them. 
12 For it is shameful even to speak about the things being done by them in secret, 
13 but all things exposed by the light are made visible, 
14 for everything made visible is light. Therefore it says, Wake up, sleeper, and rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.
15 Therefore, consider carefully how you live, not as unwise but as wise, 
16 making the most of the time because the days are evil.
17 Because of this do not become foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. 
18 And do not be drunk with wine (in which is dissipation), but be filled by the Spirit, 
19 speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and singing praise in your heart to the Lord, 
20 giving thanks always for all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to the God and Father, 
21 being subject to one another out of reverence for Christ 
22 —wives to their own husbands as to the Lord, 
23 because the husband is the head of the wife, as also Christ is the head of the church (he himself being the Savior of the body). 
24 But as the church is subject to Christ, thus also wives should be subject to their husbands in everything.
25 Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for her; 
26 in order that he might sanctify her by cleansing her with the washing of water by the word; 
27 in order that he might present to himself the church glorious, not having a spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that she may be holy and blameless. 
28 Thus also husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. The one who loves his own wife loves himself. 
29 For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as also Christ does the church, 
30 because we are members of his body. 
31 "For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two will become one flesh." 
32 (This mystery is great, but I am speaking with reference to Christ and the church.) 
33 Only you also, each one of you, must thus love his own wife as himself, and the wife must respect her husband.