The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And Samuel told all things, and did not hold back. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do what seemeth good to him.
Howbeit they would not hearken unto their judges, but followed other gods, and worshipped them; and turned aside from the way wherein their fathers had gone, keeping the commandment of Jehovah; but they did not.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, whose son art thou? And David answered, I am the son of thy handmaid, the son of Bethlehem.
Every high priest, that is taken from among men, is given his office to avenge all the things that are to do with God, that he may sacrifice for sins.
And the blood was upon the tabernacle, and upon all the vessels thereof.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done a vile thing: thou hast not kept the statutes which Jehovah thy God commanded thee: it was Jehovah's counsel to establish thee over Israel for ever.
And the men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with swords; they were all men of valor.
for the first tent was prepared, having in it the lamps, and the table, and the showbread; and this is called the holy place.
This is the covenant which I shall make with them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will remember my statutes, and write them in their heart;
And the Levites brought down the ark of Jehovah, and the chest in which were the golden images, and put them upon the great stone: and the men of Beth-shemesh burned incense, and worshipped that day before Jehovah.
And he brought back the silver unto his mother. And his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them unto the carpenter, and made them a graven image, and a molten image; and it was in the house of Micah.
being servants of that which is a copy and a image of the things which are in heaven, as Moses, when he was about to make the tabernacle, had a charge of God: for, behold, he said, Thou makest all according to all that thou sawest in the mount.
For there is no stay here, but our search is for him that is to come.
Then said the elders of Jabesh unto him, Give us for us seven days, that we may send men to every one of Israel: and if none help, we will come out unto thee.
And the son of Shelemiah put his arms round about the midst of the pillars, and fastened the house, and set his weight upon them, and on the right hand, and on the other.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart faint because of him: I, thy servant, go forth, and fight with this Philistines.
And Saul answered and said, He asked me that he might go to Bethlehem.
But I will not say any thing to me; for I am able, wheresoever I am, that I should be refreshed.
neither shall I pour out my blood upon the earth from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel hath come forth to possess my life, like one that goeth after the birds in the mountains.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and the fame of it came to Abimelech.
And Jesse said unto his son David, Take, I pray thee, for thy brethren an ephah of barley, and ten cakes of bread, and go with them unto the tents unto thy brethren.
Why hardened ye your heart like the heart of Pharaoh and the Egyptians? When he had mocked them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
And the liver shall not sin, nor the transgression of God, like Esau; who let his birthright go for the dish.
and cried out unto them. And the Danites called the battle, and said unto Micaiah, What is thy affliction, that thou hast taken up arms?
Then said to the elders of the elders of Gilead, If thou wilt bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and if I have smitten them with the help of Jehovah, wilt thou make me thy head?
And Saul said, Go on the midst of the people, and say unto them, Let every man come here to me with his ox and his sheep, and slay them here, and eat his meal: do not sin against Jehovah by taking the blood with the flesh. So all the people took their cattle with them that night, and slew them there.
Now the Philistines gathered their armies for war, and came in array in the land of Judah, and encamped between Zobah and Azekah in the gate of the Philistines.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring thy son to be slain, and cast down the altar of Baal, and cut down the holy tree that was by it.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, straw and Zalmunna, of whom thou hast mocked me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah, even in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy host that are wearied?
And he overlaid his legs with plates of brass, and put on his back a spear of brass.
And David said unto him, Whose man are thou and whither comest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant unto an Amalekite; and my master went on me, because three days I became sick.
only as we have gotten, let us also walk by the same rule.
and be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith.
So David smote the Philistines with his garments, and with a stone, and smote the Philistines, and slew him: but David had no sword in his hand.
and he brought them to the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him, while David dwelt in his stead.
but Christ as a son, over his house; whose house are we, if we keep our hearts in the glad and hope until the end.
And the sign went up out of the city in the pillar of smoke; and the Benjamite returned, and turned back, and saw all the city that went up to heaven.
But if ye know not that which we all have our part, then ye are not true children, but children of shame.
that we may be like the other nations, that our king may judge us, and go out before us to war.
But the angel of Jehovah appeared no more by him, and his wife. Then he knew that he was the angel of the Lord.
For where there is a covenant, there is the death of the man that made it.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not say anything about another day.
But the Spirit of Jehovah was kindled; and the voice of his horn gathered together after him.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall come forth from the door of my house, that I shall bring me in peace from the children of Ammon, shall be Jehovah's, and I will give him as a burnt-offering.
saying, This is the sign of the covenant which God hath made with you.
Then David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go after this troop? shall I be able to overtake them? And he said, Go after them; for thou shalt surely pursue them, and return all.
And he went up from thence to Penuel, and asked the men of Peniel: but they answered him according to the men of Succoth.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul's tents were: and David saw the place where Saul slept with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host: and Saul slept in the chamber of the wagons, and the camp of the people were round about him.
and take these ten laden unto the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren are, and they shall return with a sign to say how they are.
And Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves of bread, and two skins full of wine, and five rams prepared for almonds, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred cors of raisins, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and put them upon asses.
Humble the dogs, against the workers of iniquity, against them that are of the circumcision:
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of Shechem's tower were gathered together.
And the Syrians answered and said, Behold, the king of Amalek, come hither unto me. And the Syrians came to him, and trembling. And Hadad said, Behold, the grief of death is perished.
And they arose, and went up to Beth-el, to inquire of God. And the children of Israel said, Who shall go up first to fight against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
But there is no doubt that the less is blessed from the greatest.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the battle was captain throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim. But Saul made a great error that day by making the people to swear, saying, Let that man be cursed that taketh food before the evening, and I punished my enemies. So the people ate not.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will repay: and again the Lord will judge his people.
And Saul said, Behold, I have done the commandment of Jehovah, and have gone the way of the Lord, and I have driven off Agag king of Amalek, and I will destroy the Amalekite.
until now thou hast not shed thy blood in your fight against sin.
And David knew that Saul had conspired against him, and said unto Abiathar the priest, Come thou here with the ephod.
For I know that this shall be for my salvation, in prayer, and out of the dispensation of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
For even in Thessalonica you sent once, and again to me in my need.
Then Saul was moved to anger against Jonathan, and said unto him, Thou son of an wicked and rebellious woman, hast I not seen thy love to the son of Jesse, to thy shame, and the nakedness of thy mother?
and they, and Eshtemoa, and Eshtemoa, and Eshtemoa,
By the new and the way which he made for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
Having therefore a great high priest, who made his way through heaven, even Jesus the Son of God, let us be strong in our faith.
And Abimelech was chief over Israel three years.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And the man arose to go away; but his father-in-law would not let him go, and he lodged there in the night.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall ye come to Jonathan, the servant that is saved for Israel? let it not be so: Jehovah liveth, not one hair of his head, for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people held Jonathan from death.
But if not, let the fire come forth from Abimelech, burning up the city of Shechem and Beth rao; and there shall be a fire out of the country of Shechem, of Shechem, and against it, for the destruction of Abimelech.
And if the fathers of our flesh justified us, and had our mind, how much more shall we be under the power of the Father of spirits, and live?
He is able to feel them that have no knowledge, and for them that err from the truth, because he himself is weak.
and say unto him, That I will punish his house for ever, because of the sin which he knew; for his sons have been cursing God, and he had no charge over them.
One day the trees went forth to make a king for themselves; and they said unto the olive tree, Be king over us.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until evening, and besought Jehovah, and saying, Shall I go forward again to the battle against the sons of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
( for the law hath ceased nothing), and in its place there is a better hope, whereby we come nigh unto God.
And the man of Micah had a house of gods; and he made an ephod and family, and put one of his sons in the priest's office.

Nay, my sons, the account which is given to me, which the Lord's people are about, is not good.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Let every man be numbered, and let us see that is gone from us. And when they were numbered, it was found that Jonathan and his servant were not there.
And it shall come to pass, that on the third day it shall be searched out, and ye shall go unto the place where thou stoodest in the place where thou stoodest, and thou shalt stand by the hill over there.
And Saul's servants said these things unto David. And David said, Is it not a small thing to be a son of the king? seeing that I am a poor man, of no great name?
and it came to pass, that when they had spoken unto him that ran, that ran, the son of Jerubbesheth, that came up to mount Tabor.
Are there not too hard for me, that thou shouldest let this man come and do such guile before me? is such a man to come into my house?
And Saul said, Come near, all ye rulers of the people, and let us arise from God, and behold, in whom is this sin this day.
to set Israel to try, and see if they will keep the way of Jehovah, walking therein according to their fathers, or not.
And death died in time all that generation; and another generation followed them, not knowing the Lord, nor of the things which he had done for Israel.
And it came to pass, after that David came out of the cave, that he cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked back, David fell upon his face, and glorified him.
And she said unto her, How long shall thou go to be worse? put away thy wine from thee.
And Jehovah will render unto every man according to his righteousness and his faith; for Jehovah hath given thee this day to day, and I would not stretch out my hand against the man that was anointed with oil.
And another went on the way of Beth-horon: and another went by the mountain of the valley of Zeboim, toward the wilderness.
And Hanun answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman whose spirit is broken with sorrow: I have not taken wine or strong drink; but I have opened my heart before Jehovah.
And my God will give you all that ye have need of the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was turned to pass, that Saul took the skirt of his garment in his hand, and the napkin departed.
And running to him, he said, Behold, I am, for thou hast said my name. And she said, I have not said thy name, Go to thy rest. So he returned to his bed.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We are sinners: do unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee: only save us this day.
So, when he first, having found the sins of men, shall be seen a second time without sin, by them that wait for him for salvation.
So therefore, my beloved, as ye have at all times that I say, not only when I am present, but now much more when I am not with you, give you your salvation in your hearts;
And Joshua rose up, and went to the man, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake unto this woman? And he said, I am.
And when he saw her, he was grieved, and said, Alas, my daughter! I am crushed with mourning, and it is thine burden: for I have sworn unto Jehovah, and I will not return.
My prayer was for this child; and Jehovah hath given me unto me in answer:
And the men of the Danites were six hundred men of Mareshah, and Eshtaol, armed with instruments of war.
And it came to pass, when Moses had given all the statutes of the law unto the people, that he took the blood of goats and young oxen, and with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and anointed it upon the book, and upon all the people;
And he commanded the men whom he sent, saying, Thus shall ye say unto all the men of Israel, Hath ye done this day as this day when the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day? Consider it, and repent it, and consider it.
when your fathers tempted me, and saw my works forty years.
But shall not the man whom the Son of God be broken under foot, and the blood of the covenant wherewith he hath washed, hath been made as an common thing, and who hath not respect of the Spirit of grace, should be condemned for a very much worse condemnation?
And he went thence from thence to Ramah: and the spirit of God came upon him, and he walked, and prophesied as a prophet, until he came to Ramah.
And the five lords of the Philistines saw it, and returned to Ekron the same day.
But David loved all Israel and Judah: for he went out, and came before them.
And they made him hooks, and he gave him to Ziklag: and Ziklag hath been the possession of the kings of Judah unto this day.
And it came to pass, when these words were about the ark of God, that stood down down his seat by the gate of the gate into the city, and fell upon the ground, and smote his neck, and smote him, because he was an old man and great weight.
And in all his counsel David prospered; and Jehovah was with him.
And they turned back, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness: and upon the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who smote them with them to Geba, and slew two thousand more.
And when David had spoken these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice David, my son? And Saul wept with weeping.
I exhort, as unknown as the interpretation of the Lord.
And David inquired of Jehovah, and said, Shall I go and fight against these the Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go up, and smite the Philistines, that he may flee from thence.
and in all my petitions for you, making my request with joy.
That day they smote the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were faint from famine.
And I will send my lad to look for the arrow; and if I say unto him, Behold, the arrow is upon this side of thee; take it up, and come; for there is peace for thee, and no evil, by the living Lord.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon fought against Israel, that the elders of the children of Gilead went to Reththa, and they went out of the land of Ahitub.
And a man of Benjamin ran from the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day with his garments and the earth upon his head.
And at that time, when Elisabeth sat in his stead, his eyes were dim so that he could not see;
And he said, The Lord is witness against you, and the man upon whom he hath anointed the holy oil, this day that thou hast seen no wrong in me. And they said, He is witness.
And the young Samuel waxed the elder, the favor of the Lord and of men.
And Saul was told that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, Behold, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he hath entered into a fortified city with doors, he hath shut himself in.
Let not life be glorified among you, and not defiled: for God's adultery is judged by God.
And David said unto Ahijah, Behold, I pray thee, what thy servant will do. And Abimelech said unto David, I will make thee the keeper of my head for ever.
And Jehovah said, And Samuel. And Samuel arose, and began to meet him, and said, Here am I; for thou hast said my name. But he answered, I have said nothing, my son; go to thy rest.
The stars from heaven were warring; From their paths they strove against talking.
For this cause the things that were in the heaven cleanse with these gifts; but the things which they are made clean with precious offerings than these.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and put in his hand the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And the king said, Make haste, and see his son this young man.
And Samuel took a stone, and put it up between Mizpah, and Jeshanah, and called it aloud, and said, Up unto now Jehovah our help.
And she said, O my lord, as thy soul is alive, my lord, I am that woman, who besought the Lord by thy side:
And Gath the son of Hassenuah said, Who is Abimelech and called Shechem, that we should serve him? is it not right for the son of Jerubbesheth and Shebna his captain to the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? why should we serve him?
And he took the honey in his hand, and went in, and ate it in the way: and when he came to his father and his mother he gave them; but he spake not that he had taken the honey out of the belly of the lion.
But we have grass and food for our asses, as well as bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us; we have no need of anything.
And Samuel waxed elder, and Jehovah was with him, and none of his words.
And it shall be, that the remnant of thy house, whosoever hath not been cut off, shall bow upon his knees unto him for a piece of silver, or a morsel of bread, and say, Be pleased to bring me into one of the priest's office, that I may eat a little food.
and let us walk in truth, in certain faith, having loosed our hearts from sin and washed with clean water:
because it was right for him, for whom, and through whom all things have happened, in guiding his children to glory, to confirm the prince of their salvation through sorrow.
Then David and his men, about six hundred of them, went out of Keilah, and departed wheresoever they were able to go. And Saul heard that David had journeyed from thence, and went not thither.
So he went down, and talked with the woman; and she was weaned with the damsel.
But all the children of Israel were to go unto the Philistines to possess themselves, and to make them molten, and with axes, and with hooks.
And when Saul heard this, he sent other men, who likewise became prophets; and the third days Saul sent messengers, and they were like the apostles.
And the king sent for Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of his father's house, who were in Nob: and they came all unto the king.
Mark, O kings; hear, O ye princes: I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah: I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came together from all their cities unto Gibeah, to go to war with the children of Israel.
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a adversary to him, and that the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, To-day thou shalt have a son-in-law in the second time.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's house, and said unto them, and to all the family of his mother's father,
And David gave his oath to Saul; and Saul returned to his house: but David and his men went up into their stead.
And Saul said, Let God be surety upon me, if thou die not, Jonathan.
And he said unto them, What have I compared unto you? is not that which Ephraim took up the sour grape than all grapes, which Abiezer out of the grape-grape?
And he changed his way before them, and made it as though he was his head, and smote the gate of the city, and cast down the waters out of his mouth.
And David went to Mizpah in the land of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and thy mother come, and dwell with thee, until I know what God will do unto me.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered together, and went to Samuel at Ramah.
And Jonathan said unto his servant, Come, Come, let us go over to the camp of these men that have no circumcision; peradventure it may be that Jehovah will help us, for there is no end to his dominion; and Jehovah is able to deliver salvation by a great army, or a small company.
Let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus:
And the men of Israel went out to war against Benjamin ( and the men of Israel fought against them in Gibeah.
as a servant of the holy things and of the truth, which was set up by God, not by man.
Blessed is thy understanding, and upon thee, who have kept me this day from the iniquity of blood, And avenge my iniquity.
As it is said, To-day, if thou wilt hear his voice, be not hard of heart, as when thou hast made him angry.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and had his seven loops cut off; and when he had been done, he became feeble, and his strength went from him.
So my brethren, beloved and beloved, beloved and comely, be strong in the Lord, my beloved.
And there was a judgment of Israel for six years. And Abel the Gileadite died, and his body was buried in his city, Mizpah of Gilead.
And when Jotham heard of it, he went unto the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice, and said unto them, Hear me, ye inhabitants of Shechem, that God may hear you.
Jesus, even Jesus, and this day, and ever.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the band of the prophets, and Samuel in his stead, the spirit of God came upon Saul's men, and they became like prophets.
And David inquired again unto Jehovah, and said, Arise, go down to Kehelathah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
And he smote his death, and his body was buried at Beth-lehem.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, a priest of the Most High God, who gave Abraham his blessing to visit him, when he returned to slay the kings,
And David's servants came to Carmel to Abigail, and they said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee to bring thee to him as his wife.
Now in Carchemish and as Zalmunna were in Carchemish, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, of all the host of the children of the east that remained alive; for they were slain a hundred and twenty thousand men.
to be better in the shame of Christ to be better than all the riches of Egypt; for he sought his reward.
But if thou goest down, thou shalt bring thy servant unto thee, and go down into the camp;
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judah in Judah: how much more, if we go to Kadesh against the host of the Philistines?
And when I saw that there was no help to be heard from thee, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then have ye come up to me this day to make war upon me?
And on the fourth day they rose up early in the morning, and made haste: but the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Take a little provision to hide thy strength, and go on thy way.
And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon: and Israel said unto him, Let me now go through thy land unto my place.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and the gods of the Syrians, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they left Jehovah, and served him no more.
And it shall be according to the law of the law, that of the sons of Levi, that have the office of priests's office of the sale of the possession of the people; that is to say, They shall take it from their brethren, though these are the sons of Abraham.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as a delight in heave-offerings and burnt-offerings as in his commandments? Behold, to do his pleasure better than to offer, and to give ear unto him than the fat of sheep.
Neither shall there be any old man in thy house.
And David passed on with four hundred men, and four hundred of them, and were not able to pass over the brook.
Then he took ten of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him; but he feared to do it by day, because of his father's people and the men of the city, and did it by night.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Sela. And he said, I brought thee out of Egypt, and led thee into the land which I sware unto thy fathers; and I said, My covenant with thee shall never be broken by me:
Then said Saul unto his servant, If we go, what shall we take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no offering to take unto the man of God: what shall we do?
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he had set up unto Jehovah.
And Joshua dismissed the people, and the children of Israel went, every man to his inheritance, to take the land for themselves.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, which were taken from thee, concerning which ye sware, and said in my ears, I have given this silver unto Jehovah from my hand for myself, to make a graven image, and a molten image: behold, I have the silver, for I took it: and now I will restore it unto thee. And his mother said, Blessed be Jehovah my son.
Are they not all workers of spirits, who are sent forth as servants to them that shall inherit?
And the asses of the father of Saul's father was fled away. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take one of the servants with thee, and get up, and search the asses.
And the multitudes answered him, Thus shall it be done to the man that overcometh him.
Now therefore deliver up men of Belial in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and pervert away the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hear the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
And he went out of the city of Beth-Bethlehem Judah, and looking for him to dwell; and he went on his journey to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted quickly to her ass, and fell down upon her face before him.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul with power, and was wroth.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are all thy sons here? And he said, There is yet the young man, and he is looking after the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and bring him hither; for we will not stand down till he is here.
So Israel laid up men round about against Gibeah, to vex it.
( for my father made war for you, and put his life in safety, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;)
Yet to walk in the flesh is more necessary for you.
So all the men of Israel gathered themselves together against the city, even as one man.
For they are only the statutes of the flesh, of meats, and of drinking, and of witchcrafts, which have their place until the time that shall be fulfilled.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite from Bethlehem Judah, and I wait for a habitation.
And Melchizedek said, Seventy kings, whose thumb and the great toes were cut off, they laid bread under my table: as I have done, so hath God done unto me in full. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
So the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not this evil thing: this man hath come into my house, and ye shall not do this wrong.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath taken away the kingdom of Israel from thee this day by force, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine good men than thee.
And it came to pass, when the people returned unto their camp, that the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah let the Philistines smite us this day? let us bring the ark of Jehovah's covenant here from Shiloh, that it may be with us, and deliver us from the hand of our enemies.
And it came to pass, when they came, and looked at Eliab; and he said, Behold, the man of the Lord is before him.
For he taketh not the life of angels, but that of the seed of Abraham.
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and set him in array against Thebez, and took it.
So I have sworn unto the house of Ish-bosheth that no sacrifice of flesh, or of food, which they shall make atonement for his family.
It is the same unto me, if I look down on or honorable; in all things in all things I have hidden the mystery of how to be full, and how to go without meat, how to have riches and needy.
Again, the glory of Israel shall not speak falsehood, neither will he repent: for he is not a man, whose purpose is changed.
Speak no more words of pride; Let not rebellious words come out of your mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, by him is judged.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord, when they were attacked.
And it came to pass, when the lad came to the place where the plague was, Jonathan called after the lad, and said, Hath it not passed over thee?
Why did ye not have the commandments of Jehovah? but with violence that their substance was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into Midian seven years.
And Saul was very wroth, and this saying, And he said, They have praised David many thousands, and for me for thousands: what also is there for him but the kingdom?
And they buried in the land in the land of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the north of mount Gaash.
So David took the spear and the pitcher of water from off the head of Saul's head; and they fled without any man, nor knowing them, nor awaked; for they were all sleeping, because a deep sleep fell upon them.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
And his mother made him a little robe, and took it unto him every year, when she came with her husband for the year's offering.
And they were not kind unto the house of Nisroch the house of Jerubbesheth, according to all that he had done good to Israel.
And Samuel kept where he was, that he should not move until the time to open the doors of the house of God in the morning. And they kept him afraid from giving him a account of his vision.
And David came to the two hundred men, because of the weary had not gone with him, but they waited at the brook of the brook, and went out, and went out, and the people that were with him; and when they came near, they said, How are ye?
As he saith in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And Saul and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
And the son of Joash, the son of Joash, dwelt from the battle.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And he took the young goat with the meal-offering thereof, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah, who did foreign things.
I am persuaded between two, having a desire to go away and be with Christ, which is very much better:
And he rose up early in the morning, and went to Saul; and it was told to Samuel that Saul had come to Carmel, and set up a pillar, and went from thence to Gilgal.
And Jacob blessed the two sons of Joseph, when he was near unto death; and he bowed down God, and stood by his staff.
But I thought to send unto thee, my brother, my brother, who hath received part with me in the work, and in the fight, and with the fight, and with thy servant, sent unto you in my want;
Then said the woman, Who shall I let thee see? And he said, Make Samuel come up for me.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples round about them, worshipping them, and provoke Jehovah to anger.
saying, Be sure that I will bless thee, and multiply thee.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched by the passions of our weak flesh: but we have one that hath been tempted in all points as we ourselves are tempted, but without sin.
Howbeit we are not of them that go back to destruction: but of them that have faith unto the salvation of the soul.
Wherefore, when it pleased that God would make it known unto them that by his word should inherit, that he purposed, he made it more with an oath;
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the Philistines forty years.
yea, verily, and I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is more than all: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and unto me they are less than nothing, that I may have Christ as my reward:
Then the children of Judah smote Jerusalem, and took it, and devoured the city after they had slain the people with the sword.
And David's two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel, was carried captive captive.
The rod of his spear was as long as a weaver's shuttle, and his head was made of six hundred shekels weight of iron: and one went before him with shield.
Make an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the way, and bring the ox, and make a burnt-offering with the wood of the holy tree which is cut down.
But Saul said nothing that day, for he thought, he hath made him unclean: it is manifest that he is not clean.
And the border of the Edomites went from the side of the Akrabbim from the goldsmiths, from Selah, and from the border of the Edomites.
And it came to pass, when she came unto him, that he thought to ask a field from her father; and she alighted from her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What is it?
For if the blood of goats and the ox, and the dust from the burning of a young cow, thou shalt make the flesh clean;
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines for a year and four months.
Now Saul came from the field, and drove the oxen before him; and he said, Wherefore are the people weeping? And they told him what the men of Jabesh had said.
Now therefore hearken unto the voice of thy servant, and give thee a little bread; and thou shalt eat some food to thee, when thou goest in thy way.
and told him how Saul had killed the priests of the Lord.
And Hamor the son of Hassenuah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their faith in him.
and set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the golden images which thou hast set in a chest by its side, and cast it away, that it may go.
And Jonathan said unto David, Saul, my father, is surety for thy death: now, tarry thou in the morning, and hide thyself in a secret place.
And the Philistines sent unto the priests, and they that were wise-hearted, and said unto them, What shall we do to the ark of Jehovah? how shall we send it away to its place?
And all Israel heard that Saul had fought against the Philistines, and that Israel was sore displeased by the Philistines. And the people came together after Saul to Gilgal.
So all the men of Israel rose up, and encamped in Baal at Baal: and they that stood in ambush against the west of Geba.
And he gave back the eleven hundred shekels of silver unto his mother; and his mother said, I have made the silver holy unto Jehovah from me for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image.
And Saul's brother's brother said unto him and his servant, Where hast thou been? And he said, He sought the asses: and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
Therefore let us have a strong desire to come into that rest, and let no man go after the fables of the captivity.
Awake, awake, and awake; awake, awake; cry up; arise, and draw up; and take away captive, thou son of Jerubbesheth.
And the king of the Philistines came up to her, and said unto her, Make thy hand over him, and see what is the secret of his great strength, and how we may recover him, and bind him, that we may make him faint; and every one of us shall give thee eleven hundred shekels of silver.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest out to me with sticks? And the Philistines smote David by all his gods.
Settle him therefore in the Lord with joy, and honor such as he is:
And now arise early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that are with thee, and go into the place I have given thee, and have no lewdness in thine heart; for thou art good in mine eyes; for when the morning is sufficient in the morning, go away.
For, having done that which was right in God's eyes, ye have need of wait before his word.
( Now the children of Benjamin had spoken that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, Declare this evil thing.
For they all walk after that which is theirs, not according to the things of Christ.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took a stone out of his hand, and cast it out of the girdle of the Philistines, and cast the stone into his forehead, and fell down upon his face.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been keeper of his father's sheep: and if a lion or a bear, and taketh a lamb out of the flock,
So now, get up by night, thou and thy people, and keep watch in the field.
And when they went into the house of Micah, and took out the graven image, and the ephod, and the house, and the molten images, the priest said unto them, What doest ye?
And David's fear of David was greater, and hated him by day.
And when he saw that he saw her, he sent unto the chief of the Philistines, saying, Come up to the chiefs of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time; for he hath put forth all his heart unto me. Then the princes of the Philistines came to her, with the money in their hand.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David be with me; for he is good to me.
by whom this corruptible body of us shall be transformed into the likeness of the body of his glory, according to the measure of the working wherewith he is able to put all things under himself.
And when the woman saw that it was Saul, she cried with a loud voice, and said unto Saul, Why hast thou dealt falsely? for thou art Saul.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah hath sent me to anoint thee, and to make thee king over Israel over Israel: therefore hear ye the words of Jehovah.
So David ran up to the Philistines, and laid his foot upon him, and David took his sword out of his sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that they were dead, they fled.
And they cut off his head, and took away his garments, and sent them unto the land of the Philistines round about, to bring the tidings unto their gods, and to the people.
And David fought from evening until the evening of the day of the day: and not one of them left, but four hundred young men that fled on camels.
And it came to pass, when they were come to the land of Zuph, that Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us return, and let us return, lest my father forget concerning the asses, and be troubled about us.
And Saul sent for the people, and had numbered of them, even two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
All the saints salute you, especially those that are of Caesar's house.
If thou hast done that which is true and right to transgress and his household this day, thou shalt have joy in Abimelech, and he shall rejoice in thee;
and God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and by many powers, and by the Spirit of the Holy Spirit at his will.
I have told that thou hast sheep-sheep; now have the keepers of thy flock been with us, and we have done them no evil, and have taken nothing of them, while they were in Carmel.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is a ephod, and a house of gods, and a graven image, and a molten image? so now ye know what to do.
And Saul said, Give ear now, O son of Ahitub. And he answered and said, Here I am, my lord.
And David went to and from Saul, and looked after his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
To which of the angels did God say in any time, Thou art my Son, this day I have delivered thee? or, I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: your way is toward Jehovah.
And he went to Ramah, and came to the great water in Zoar; and he asked the people, saying, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, They are at Ramah.
In faith Abel made a precious gift to God than Cain; and he had testified of his righteousness, and God giveth his favor: and his voice also cometh unto us, though he is dead.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Assemble Jehovah our God, that we may deliver us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul died, and his three sons and his handmaid, in the same day.
And Saul and his men sought him. And David heard of it, and went down into the rock in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard of this, and followed David into the wilderness of Maon.
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, saying,
Then said he, What did Samuel say unto thee?
He shall take thy servants and thy handmaids, and the best of thy oxen and thy asses, and put them into his work.
And David said unto Abiathar the son of Nethaniah, Come hither unto me with the ephod. And Abiathar took the ephod unto David.
But he returned from the idols of Gilgal, saying, I have somewhat to say unto thee in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be quiet. And all that were waiting before him went out.
And David spake in the wilderness that Eve was cut the wool of his sheep.
And they came over Shedec, and made war on him: and they smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
So with these words David kept his servants, and suffered them not to ride upon Saul. And Saul arose, and went on his way.
And it came to pass, when the angel of the Lord spake unto them, that the angel of Jehovah spake unto all the children of Israel, saying, The people shouted and wept.
But the fulness of the feast is with the rich, even to them that learn to know the good and the evil.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for from all this people I know your evil ways.
And Manasseh took not away the land of the people of Bethshean and its towns, of Taanach and its towns, and of the people of Dor, and of the towns thereof, and of the people of Ibleam, and Ibleam, and the people of Megiddo, and the towns thereof, and did drive them out; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And it came to pass, that, when he came to the Jordan, that he went over with his three hundred, and prevailed with famine and famine.
Then came ye to pass through all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and pass against the Jordan, before they come. So all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and kept the way beyond the Jordan.
And when he saw the traveller in the street of the city, the old man said, Where goest thou? and whence comest thou?
And Jonathan and David made a covenant for David's love for David.
of whom we have much to say which it is hard to make manifest; for ye are patient.
who have no need of propitiation daily, like the chief priests, first for himself, and then for the people; for he did this once and for ever when he offered himself.
And the mountains trembled before Jehovah, before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
But it is known unto you: how, as a child is to his father, so he was a help to me in the work of the gospel.
for then he would have suffered a number of death from the time of the world: but now he hath come unto us at the end of the old, to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanite alive in Iddo, and smote it; and he called the city the name of Hormah.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, If thou wilt give me thine oath, that thou wilt not kill me, nor forsake me to my master, I will bring thee unto them.
And Jonathan smote the army of the Philistines at Gibeah; and the Philistines heard that the Hebrews were turned against them. And Saul blew a trumpet throughout all the land.
And thy princes, Issachar, were with sleb; and Naphtali was multiplied in the valley; they ran into the valley at his feet; and in Reuben there were divisions, and great men of heart.
So they took the vessels of the people, and their horns out of their hand, and sent them away, every man to his tent, keeping only three hundred; and the tents of Midian were lower in the valley.
So David sent the watch, and told them that Saul was surely coming.
Take heed to establish the house: for so they have borne messengers, as they know not.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Let the woman know what I have spoken unto her.
And Saul said, Come hither, and offer me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And thou hast showed me how good thou hast been unto me this day: for when Jehovah delivered me into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
only the gospel of Christ, that if I come and see you, or if I depart from you, I know you that ye are strong in one spirit, working together with one soul to the faith of the gospel;
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Jehovah be our witness: we will certainly do as thou sayest.
But day and night they were like a wall round about us, while we were with them, looking after the sheep.
Jehovah executeth death and life: He sendeth messengers to Sheol, and lifteth them up.
And David fled, and rose away, and came to Ramah to Samuel, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Mahanaim.
Woe to the curse! and the angel of Jehovah, saith the angel of Jehovah, a curse upon her city, because they have not come to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
And the daughters of Israel were no more in Israel, and there was no more any more, till thou didst in bonds, until thou camest up as a mother in Israel.
And Saul was told that David had been seen, and the men that were with him: now was Saul in Gibeah sitting under the tree in the high place, with his spear in his hand; and all his servants stood before him.
And it came to pass early on the fifth day, that he arose to depart; and the damsel's father said, Stand up, and bear thy strength; and the two of them had eaten, and the man and his wife, and his servant, until the day of the day.
But the Kenite dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, and scattered them.
A man that hath passed against the law of Moses, shall be put to death in the mouth of two or three witnesses.
And there came out three bands of men from the Philistines to fight; one band passed by the way that leadeth to Jahaz into the land of Libnah.
but only a great fear of being judged, and the fire of wrath, which shall be destroyed with the enemies of God.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come, that we may glory thee?
Even though I have believed in the flesh: if any man hath thought to have faith in the flesh, I have more.
Therefore Jesus was crucified without the wall, that he might sanctify the people by his blood.
avoiding not strange commandments; for it is good for your hearts to be strengthened by grace, and not by meats, which were of no profit to them that did not hurt them.
And all the inhabitants of the tower of Shechem heard of it, and went into the inner chamber of the house of the rock.
Is this the first time have I sought from God for him? God forbid: neither let the king make no charge against his servant, nor my father's house; for thy servant hath no knowledge, nor great or small,
And Jonathan said, Now will we go over unto these men, and let them see us.
But the people hearkened not to the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will reign over us.
And David said, Behold, the king's spear! let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
And they called the name of the city of Dan after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: for the name of the city was called Galeed.
Let us keep the witness of our hope strong and terrible; for he is faithful that hath spoken:
Therefore let the hands be lifted up, and confirm the feeble knees,
The same night said Jehovah unto him, Take ten men of thy servants, and an ox seven years old, and after the altar of Baal that is thy father's, and cut down the holy tree by the side thereof,
For to walk against his commandment, is as the wickedness of those that divine, and terrible to worship incense: because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath set thee from thy place as king.
And the young Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before Jehovah: in those days Jehovah hid his word from men, and there was no vision.
If he had been on the earth, he would not have been a priest: for there are the other priests that sanctify the sacrifice;
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man of war? is there any other like thou in Israel? why hast thou not spared thy lord the king? for one of the people came in to slay the king thy lord.
And they said unto him, Be silent; say nothing, and come with us, and serve us, and serve us: is it better for thee to be priest to one man's house, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?
And the three thousand of the men of Judah went down to the stronghold of the rock of Etam, and said unto a son, Is it not known that the Philistines are our rulers? and what is this thou hast done to us? And he said unto them, I only did unto them as they did unto me.
And when he was come, he sat by the way of the way watching: and his heart was afraid for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told the gospel, there was a great cry.
But if it bring up thorns and tares, it is of no use, and is ready to be cursed; the only end shall be burned.
And it came to pass, when his brethren fled, and dwelt in the land of Caleb, where men of the sons of men were joined to Libnah, and went with him.
And the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, answered, I came unto Gibeah in the land of Benjamin, I and my servant's servant; for the time was determined there for the night.
But, brethren, receive the words which I have spoken for your profit; for I have not sent you a long letter.
Now therefore return, and go in peace, lest thou make the lords of the Philistines angry.
And the children of the Gileadites took the places of the Jordan against Ephraim; and it came to pass, when any of the men of Ephraim fled, saying, Let me pass over. And the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou a burden? And if he said, No.
and in the faith of Abraham Sarah conceived, when she was very old, because she believed in him that instructed him;
And Abimelech answered and said unto the king, Who among all thy servants is truth like David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is a captain of thy guard, and hath a place of honor in thy house?
For I know this very thing, that he through whom the good work abounded in you shall be fulfilled until the day of Jesus Christ:
looking to see, that no man is worthy of you in his conversation cometh short of the grace of God; lest ye fear that there might be a snare unto you, and that some of you may be made unclean by it;
and being weak, he hath made himself for himself as well as the people.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Respect not his face, or how he is grown, because I will not have him: for the sight of Jehovah is not man's; man regardeth the form; but Jehovah seeth the heart.
And Saul would have sent his spear through him, and smote him to the wall; but he arose and went into the wall: and that night David fled, and fled.
and make your feet straight, that the weak may not be turned out of the way, but be strengthened.
So now, now, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath taken away their land from the Amorites, and delivered it unto his people Israel; and are ye then to have it?
Now while she was long time in prayer before Jehovah, he was watching at her mouth.
of whom it was said, Of Isaac shall thy seed take their name:
And it came to pass, when they heard that David said, They told Saul, and sent him.
And David took these words to heart, and durst fear the king of Gath.
And the watchmen shook upon Gibeah, and discomfited it, and put all the city to the sword without mercy.
And the number of them that took up the waters with their tongues were three hundred; and all the inhabitants of the people fell upon their knees to the water.
And Jonathan gave Saul his father a good account of David, and said unto him, Let not the king trespass against his servant, against David; for he hath done thee no wrong, and all his doings have found thee good.
And that night God did so; for the wool was dried up, and there was dew upon all the earth round about.
Wherefore therefore lookest thou with jealousy in my sacrifices, and of fine flour, which I commanded, and honor your sons before me, and makest yourselves fat with all the choice of the heave-offerings of Israel?
And the death came to Samuel; and all Israel came together, and wept with him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. Then David went down into the wilderness of Maon.
And with grief she wept bitterly, and she prayed unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said, Why dost thou ask me, seeing that God is departed from thee, and is on the side of him that is against thee?
And they said unto Ezekiel, Come and be chief, that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
For it hath been testified of him, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
But the man would not tarry there that night; and he arose, and went and passed over against the same city, which is Jerusalem); and he had with him the two asses, ready for the ascent of his wife.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words which chastise him.
and passeth once and ever into the sanctuary, having gotten eternal salvation, not by the blood of the goats and the calves, but through his blood.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And it came to pass, when there was come to pass, that a man told his friend, saying, Behold, I had dreamed a loaf of barley bread, which fell into the tents of Midian, and fell to the tent, and overthrew it, and fell upon the ground.
And it came to pass every year, that called a blessing, and blessed his wife, saying, Jehovah give thee seed by this woman in exchange for the child thou hast given unto Jehovah. And they returned to their house.
And Samuel took the vial of oil, and anointed him among his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David with power. And Samuel returned to Ramah.
Now these are the nations, which Jehovah kept in the land for the counsel of Israel by them, all that had no respect of all the wars of Canaan;
And David said unto Jehoshaphat, Hast thou no sword or spear with thee? for I have found my sword and her arms, because the king's business was to be done quickly.
And Saul sent men to take David, and said, He is sick.
Therefore give me thy oath by Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, neither shall my name be cut off from my father's house.
For the blood of oxen and of goats can not take away sins.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak with David secretly, and say unto him, See how the king delighteth in thee, and how thou lovest thyself with all his servants; then be the king's son.
so that we desire that ye may all set the same lofty hope unto the end:
And he said unto him, Call me, I beseech thee, what is the mystery of thy great strength, and how thou mayest be bound in bonds, and be weak.
So the men of Kiriath-jearim came and brought the ark of Jehovah to the house of Abinadab in Gibeah, and made Eleazar his son holy, and set the ark in his care.
saying, I will teach thy name unto my brethren, I will sing unto thee a song of praise before the assembly.
And it came to pass, when they heard that they say, Thou shalt go down to go down against the camp. And he went down with his servant, and went to the host of the host of the host.
But the olive tree said unto them, Shall I give up my wealth of oil, whereby men give glory to God, and go over the trees?
Then shall ye say, Because of this, when the Lord hath forsaken and Zalmunna into my hand, I will set thee upon a bed of the wilderness of the wilderness, and upon a bramble, and I will break upon the threshing-floor.
And the woman had in the house a young cow brought fat for food; and she slew it immediately: and she took meat, and kneaded it, and made unleavened bread.
But now as the priest is higher than him: for through him God hath made a good covenant with man, according to that which is profitable.
Now to God our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And they told David, saying, The Philistines fight against Keilah, and took the threshing-floor.
And I will make known unto thee the captain of Jabin, and his chariots, and his bands, and come against thee at the river of Kishon; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And all the inhabitants of Shechem and all of the Berites came together, and went and made Abimelech their king by the oak of the pillar in Shechem.
Then she said unto her father, Only do this for me: let me have two months to go away into the mountains, and weep for my mourning.
So I took her, and cut her into sunder, which I have sent through all the land of the heritage of Israel: for they have wrought shame in Israel.
Who shall presume unto thee in this matter? for it shall be given to him that went to the battle and to him that standeth by the goods; they shall be all alike.
And it came to pass, when he was come to his house, that he took his knife, and took the woman, and cut her up bone in twelve parts, which he sent throughout all Israel.
So that of one man, who was near unto death, came forth children as stars in heaven, or as the sand by the sea shore, which can not be numbered.
And not one of these received the good things of the covenant, though they were all received by faith.
And he smote them from Aroer all the way of Minnith, and pursued them with twenty cities, even unto Abel, and smote the sword. So the children of Ammon were beaten before the children of Israel.
And Jesse took five cakes of bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them unto Saul by David.
that is to say, Not by a law set on the flesh, but by the power of a living life;
For Jehovah the God of Israel, the God of Israel, who hath kept me from doing thee evil, if thou hadst not been so soon to come unto me, and to meet me, even the morning was not in the house of Nabal, so much as one male.
even, even to you, that I may have glory in you in the day of Christ, that I may boast in the day of Christ; because my running was not because of nothing, neither did my work fail.
And it came to pass, when they had eaten and wine in the treasury of the house, that Hanun arose. Now, behold, the priest sat by the pillars of the gate of the temple of Jehovah.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me from the sore of the lion and bare, shall save me from the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And David and his men dwelt in Gath at Gath; and every man had his family with him; and David had his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail of Carmel, who had been the wife of Nabal.
And the children of Ammon gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel gathered together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And Eber the Kenites, who separated himself from the rest of the Kenite, of the sons of Achor, the brother of Moses, had put his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, Kedesh by Kedesh.
And there went a great number of the people over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead: but Saul tarried in Gilgal, and all the people followed him.
So when he was waiting for many days, the word of God was fulfilled.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day; now let me smite him with the earth with his spear, and there shall be no need of him.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever those that are sanctified.
And I will forget their sins and their iniquities no more.
and said unto him, Behold now, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: give us a king to be our judge, that we may be like the other nations.
But certain men said, How is this man save us? And having no respect for him, they gave him no offering.
Then he went into the house of his father at Ophrah, and put his brethren, the seventy sons of Jerubbesheth, to kill the same stone: but Jotham the youngest guard himself, and went into a secret place.
Withhold thou not the lands of those whom Chemosh thy God shall drive out from before thee? so will we keep all the lands of them whom Jehovah our God bringeth out from before us.
And Saul said unto his servants, Get me a woman that hath borne of a spirit, that I may go to her and fetch it. And his servants said unto him, There is such a woman at Endor.
And when the men came in, there was a graven image in the bed, and the hair of a goat's hair,
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who did not present unto Jehovah at the assembly of all Israel? for they had taken a great oath that whosoever came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah, he should surely be put to death.
And she called the name of jealousy, saying, The glory is gone out of Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law.
And Micaiah said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines. And he put forth all his strength, and the house came down upon the princes, and upon all the people that were in it. And the dead whom he smote, he died above all that he had slain in his life.
And he said unto the elders of the elders of Gilead, Hast thou not hated me, cast me away from my father's house? wherefore then come thou unto me now when thou art in trouble?
And the king said, Thou shalt surely be put to death, thou shalt surely be slain, thou, and all thy father's house.
And the women answered one another in song, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And Jehovah said to the fight, Therefore great is thy people, that, if I give the Midianites into their hands, they magnify me, and say, I am my saviour.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
And the five men went on the way, and came to Shechem, and they saw the people that dwelt there, as the Sidonians, and the quiet, and the stronghold; for they had all that were on the earth for their sakes, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with Syria.
and let this oblation, which thy servant giveth unto my lord, be given to the young men that are with my lord.
Now therefore, if thou hast done truth and truth in making Abimelech king, and if thou hast done well to overthrow Baal and his house in the work of his hands;
and he took up a wild ass' a ass, and a serpent, which he saw upon the ground, and slew a thousand men with it.
And Shema the son went down to Timnath, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
Only for the generations of the children of Israel, by reason of the counsel of the children of Israel, that they should make war, even they that did not know it;
And he opened all his heart to her, and said unto her, My head hath not touched me; for I have been separated unto God from the day of my birth: if my hair be cut off, then my strength shall depart from me, and I will faint, and will be like any other man.
Wherefore, my brethren, being able to enter into the sanctuary without fear for the blood of Jesus,
And it came to pass, when David returned again after the destruction of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, with songs and dancing, David with singing instruments, with singing, and with instruments of music.
And Sheva the Gileadite was a great man of war; he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead was his father.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Depart, take thee away from among the Amalekites, and destroy thee with them: for thou wast merciful unto the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt. So the Kenite departed from among the Amalekites.
Then said the son unto them, This time will I give to the Philistines; for I will do them great evil.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines, and pursued them, until they came to Bethphage.
And there were among the people of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgins that had not known with a man; and they dwelt in Shiloh in Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And it came to pass, that the son of Joash died, when he was very old, and his body was buried in the sepulchres of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the chief mite.
And Saul sent his servants unto Jesse, and said, Call me thy son David, who is with the sheep.
And David said unto Saul, Why dost thou hearken to them that speak, that I would do thee wrong?
And David was the youngest: and the three elder were with Saul's host.
not like the covenant that I made with their fathers, when I brought them by the hand, to be their guide out of the land of Egypt; for they did not keep the covenant with me, and I delivered them, saith Jehovah.
And Samuel spake all these words of Jehovah to the people that sought a king.
Now of the things we say this is the chief: We have such a high priest, who is standing at the right hand of God's throne of glory in heaven,
But when the judge was dead, they turned again, and did more evil than their fathers, and went after other gods, to be their servants, and to serve them; and they brought up nothing of their sins and their own ways.
And after him, Abimelech, of Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, the man of Issachar, was the saviour of Israel: he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the men of Ephraim came and said unto him, Why didst thou not send for us, when thou goest to battle against Midian? And they answered him, and rebuked him.
And all the men of Israel that dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, and pursued after them.
So Jonathan rose up from the table, and burneth with wrath, and took no fast in the feast the second day of the month, because he grieved David because of his father.
And Saul sent his spear upon him, and sought to give him a wound: from which Jonathan his father thought to kill David.
But now they desire a good land, that is to say, For one in heaven; and it is no shame to God to be called their God; for he hath prepared a city for them.
For our country is in heaven: from where the Saviour, for whom we stand, shall come, even the Lord Jesus Christ:
And when he arose, he took up a sharp thick cords, and made him bound together, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son; and they waited in the chamber; and the cords were rent, and his shields were broken.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Carites, and the Amalekites: for these were the people that dwelt in the land from Pathros to Shur, even unto Egypt.
And when the flame went up to heaven from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, while he interpreted, and his wife looked; and they bowed on their faces to the ground.
And Jehovah sent you forth, and said, Go, and curse sinners, the Amalekite, and fight against them, until every man is dead.
Now therefore, behold, my lord, by the living God, and by thy living soul, seeing that Jehovah hath kept thee from the iniquity of blood, and by the hand of your hand, to avenge all thine enemies, and of them that do evil unto my lord, be like the foolishness of Nabal.
And Jair died at the death of Jair.
Shall I take my bread and my wine and my food for my sheep, and give it to men, that I should not know whence?
And they went forth into their fields, and found in the fruit of their vines; and when they had eaten the grapes, they made a holy feast, and entered into the house of their god, and over their food, and they had cursed Abimelech.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians, and the Amorites, and the children of Ammon, and the Philistines,
And the sign was set between the men of Israel, and the ambushment which they made a pillar of smoke went up out of the city;
And Jonathan called for David, and told him all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, who kept him at the past.
And he said, Go therefore. And he sent her away for two months; and she went with her friends to the mountains, and wept for her mourning.
And the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Midian, did overthrow you, and I cry unto your cry.
And it came to pass, when he turned back from following David, that Saul went against the Philistines: and the name of the place was called den.
But his wife said unto him, If the Lord had avenged us, he would not have taken our burnt-offering and our oblation, or have given us such commandment concerning the child.
And it came to pass, when he came to a troop, that the Philistines came out, and cried with a loud voice: and the Spirit of Jehovah smote him, and his arms were as grass burned with fire, and his hands fell down.
and by faith it is known unto us, that the word of God hath been ordained unto us, that the things which is seen hath not been made of the things which are seen.
There was no loss of anything, nor great, nor great, nor daughters, nor goods, nor stuff, nor any thing that they had taken away.
And she said unto her young men, Go before me, and I will follow thee. And she spake nothing unto her husband.
then let us come near to the throne of grace without fear, that we may be gracious unto us, and we may obtain favor for our help in time of want.
And he said, Ye have taken my gods which I made, and my priest, and have gone away; what is there for me now? why then say thou unto me, What is thy distress?
Then behold he was the angel of the Lord, and said, I am afraid, O Lord God: for I have seen the angel of the Lord face upon me.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent: and if any one cometh, and saith unto thee, Is there any man here, say, No.
And the people came to Beth-el, and waited there until evening before God, and bowed themselves to bitter weeping.
And when his servants said these words unto David, he pleased him to be the king's son: and the days were yet not past.
Follow your brethren in the faith.
But the people, the men of Israel, took courage again, and set them in order, and took up the same office as the first day.
For if this had been possible, would there not be made an end of them, because those that fear should have been made clean, and should have no more known any more of sins?
And it came to pass, when they heard the dream and the interpretation which they took it, and worshipped; and he returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered the host of Midian into your hand.
For he looked for the strong city, that built up and made God.
And by faith Moses, when he became a man, he would not be named the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
And he said unto him, God forbid: ye shall not be put to death: behold, my father doeth nothing, great or small, without giving me word: should he hide this secret from me? It is not so.
And the children of Dan were cast into the hill-country by the Amorites, that would not let them go down into the valley.
But Hanun loved him, though Hanun loved him, but Jehovah had not suffered her children.
Cast out the power of fire, and escape from the edge of the sword, and prevailed against the feeble, and prevailed in battle, and put to flight the hosts of the nations.
Jehovah giveth riches, and taketh a man's prey; Yea, he breaketh down and lifted them up.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah in the land of Saul.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah, let the man of God whom thou hast sent us, and declare unto us what we shall do for the child that is to come.
And the angel of Jehovah stood before his eyes, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O man of war.
And Deborah said unto Bidkar, Up, for this day Jehovah hath spoken unto thee unto thee: hath not Jehovah gone out before you? So ran down thither from mount Tabor, and ten thousand after him.
And it came to pass, that David repented greatly to destroy the skirt of Saul.
but if they say, Come up to us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand: and this shall be the sign to us.
For this cause it is needful for us to hear the things that are come to our ears, lest we should be driven astray.
Let us then, though we yet have the word of God, that we may come into his own rest, that ye may fear that some of you can not do so.
And the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah: for he had nine hundred iron chariots, and he was very sore of twenty years unto the children of Israel.
And with whom was he angry forty years? was it not with them that did evil, who died in the wilderness?
And he took his people, and divided them into three bands, and sat in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the city, he went up, and fought against them.
And again he saith, I will trust in him. And again, behold, I am here, and the children which God hath given me.
And the men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out unto thee, and do unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee.
And Achan the son said unto the lad that took him by the hand, Let me set my hand upon the pillars, that I may set my back against them.
O Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, and moved as a army from the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens were troubled, and the cloud toss water.
And roughly said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And Saul said, Not a man to be put to death this day: for this day Jehovah hath saved Israel.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the rod of thy kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
So David went into a secret place in the field: and when the moon came, the king stood at the feast.
And Jonathan sware unto David because of his love: for David loved him as his soul.
So that day God smote with Hazael king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
and she sware, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt remember the anguish of thy servant, not turning away from me, but keep me in mind, and will give me a man-child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and his hair shall not be cut off.
And one of the multitude of that place answered and said, Who is their father? And they told him, Is even Saul among the prophets?
And she called the son of Jerubbesheth from Rameses, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and bring forth thy hand in mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
The river of Jeshurun took them away, And waited their flight, the stream of Kishon. Praise, O my soul, to the strength of Jehovah.
They shall say, Peace be with thee, and will give you two cakes of bread, which ye shall take from them.
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin by the families of their fathers' houses, and the family of the Canaanite: and from them, Saul the son of Kish was taken; but when they sought him, he was not found.
For the commandment that said, If the mountain be touched by a beast, the beast is to stone, and it was hard unto them;
And Jonathan said unto David, I will do it for thee.
And he said unto David, Thou art righteous, and I am innocent: for thou hast recompensed me good, but I have given thee evil.
But the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah, that we are in thine hand to give bread to thy army?
where Jesus went before us, as a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
Salute every one that is godly in Christ Jesus: the brethren which with me salute you.
and he made the women and all that were there, both small and great, that they had not slain them, but had taken them all away.
And the Philistines assembled themselves, and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
the five heads of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, living in mount Lebanon, from the hill-country of Paran, unto Hamath;
And it came to pass, that the three hundred and three hundred hearkened upon the trumpets; and every man's sword turned to Jehovah against his brother throughout all the host; and the host fled unto the front of the ascent of Adummim, to the border of Abel.
Go now, and take more steps, and see where he is alive; for they say that he is skilful in deceit.
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, kill them. But the lad took not out his sword, fearing that he was yet a child.
And the Syrians saw not Saul again till the day of his death; but Samuel mourned for Saul; and the pleasure of the Lord was not Amnon to be king over Israel.
And after him repaired the spirit of Beth-lehem, the judge of Israel.
And the armed men of the host delivered Jonathan and his servant, saying, Come up hither to us, and we will see thee. And Jonathan said unto his servant, Come up after me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him, and he shall die, and he shall go into the battle, and he shall die.
But now, thy authority shall not pass upon: Jehovah, and seek a man that is acceptable to him in every way, and hath given him the place of ruler over his people, because thou hast not done what Jehovah commanded thee.
Then all the children of Israel took their arms, and gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And they said unto the men of Benjamin, Go into the vineyards, and lodge there;
And the woman said unto him, But thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cast out of the land that have familiar spirits, and soothsayers: why would ye, by feigned, kill me?
by that which we were made holy by the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once and ever.
And they came together to Mizpah, and fetched water, and poured it out before Jehovah; and they ate not that day, and said, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel was judged of the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And Saul answered and said, He told us that the asses were returned. But he spake nothing unto him of Samuel about the kingdom.
And it came to pass, when the lad was gone, that David came from his secret place by the hill, and fell upon the ground, and fell upon his face three times: and they kissed one another, weeping together, until David's grief was great.
Then Harbonah's wife, Eber's wife, took a nail, and a hammer, and went up to him quietly, and cast the nail into his head, and went through his head into the earth; for he was a deep sleep, and he died.
But ye did well to have respect for me in my want.
Therefore Jehovah let the nations dwell in the land, and not drive them out, nor delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
And all the people rose up, and lodged all night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And let not thy lovingkindness be cut off from my house, even when Jehovah hath destroyed all the enemies of all David, and cut them off from the face of the earth.
And it shall know that thou knowest these things: God shall do unto you as a father doeth unto his sons; for what son doeth not his father?
And Eliab his first-born, when he heard that David said unto the men, was wroth against David, and said, Why hast thou come hither? to whom hast thou required the flock of sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the evil of thy heart, thou hast come down to see the battle.
And the sons of Saul Jonathan's son went to David in Hor-haggidgad, and strengthened his hands in God.
and then let them turn aside, that their hearts should be made new a second time; because they themselves tempt the Son of God in the cross, and made confession.
And he said unto all Israel, Thou art on one side, and I am with Jonathan my son. And the people said unto Saul, Do all that seemeth good unto thee.
If therefore we have a kingdom that shall never be moved, let us have grace, that we may give thanks unto God, as with fear and favour:
And now behold how great this man was, to whom Abraham our father gave a tenth part of that which he had gotten in the battle.
All of the life of Saul's life was bitter war against the Philistines: and when Saul saw any strong man or any good soldier, he kept him near himself.
And they came to him, while he sat by himself in the summer house. And they said, I have a word from God for thee. And he arose from his throne.
Therefore let the Lord judge, and plead between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me from falling into your hand.
What then? that in every way or lies or truth, the preaching of Christ goeth on; and in this I am glad and rejoice.
And there was no counsellor in all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, For fear the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears:
And David said unto the men, What shall be done unto the man that overcometh this of the Philistines, and take away the shame from Israel? for who is this master, then a man uncircumcised, that he hath healed the host of the living God?
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my possession, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I will then go with you into your possession. And Simeon went with him.
And while they were eating the supper, the sons of the city gathered the house, and smote the door; and they said unto the old man, The master of the house, Send forth that man that came into thy house, that we may take our pleasure with him.
And Saul said, Then say unto David, The king hath no desire for a hundred's sake, but only for the king's sake the king's sake, that the king may recover the better of his enemies. But it was in Saul's mind that David might die by the hand of the Philistines.
Now David was the son of Nahash, the son of Beth-lehem Judah, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons, and he was old man in Saul's day, and far about in years.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Ye see that I have heard all that thou saidst unto me, and have set a king over thee.
For it is known that our Lord cometh out of Judah: and Moses spake unto them from the tribe of Israel.
And when it was evening, they saw an old man from his work in the field: and he was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt in Gibeah: but the men of the place were a Benjamite.
Then said I, Behold, I am bold, O God, according as it is written of me in the roll of the book.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the men, saying, Because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took my land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jabbok, even unto the Jordan: so now give me the lands.
And Jonathan cried out after the lad, and hasted, saying, Beware not thyself: go quickly. And Jonathan's servant arose, and returned to his master.
It was right for us to have such a high priest, he that is holy and without evil, and sinneth not, having no part with sinners, and exalted above heaven.
For he rebuked them, and saith, Behold, the days come, when I shall make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
having nothing through jealousy, nor through pride, but in the meekness of one that partake to be better than himself;
For by the living Lord the saviour of Israel, if the sinner be Jonathan, my son, surely shall he die: but not a man among all the people answered him.
But when he had fled, he fled in the tent of Jediael the wife of Eber the Kenites: for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the family of Eber the Kenites.
And Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel; and the land was fourscore years.
But, my beloved, though we say this, we know that thou hast good things in thee, which go with salvation;
But the high priest went in unto the second, once a year, not to make a offering of blood for himself, nor for the people.
Forty thousand men of Benjamin died, all mighty men of valor.
that every knee is at the name of Jesus, and every knee in heaven, and on earth, and in the grave.
Then Samuel sent the people to come together before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; so all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land, became Israel's.
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrow is passed by thee; go on thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And Saul pitched his tents upon the hill of the Canaanite, which is before the wilderness in the way. But David was in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul was following him.
Be therefore therefore merciful unto thy servant; for thou hast been joined with thy servant in a covenant before Jehovah: but if there be any iniquity in me, put me to death, why do thou bring me to thy father?
And after Nob, the priests of the priests, he put to the sword, all the men, and the women, and the children, and the infants, and the cattle, and the asses, and the sheep.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah; and do thou unto me whatsoever thou hast spoken; for Jehovah hath sent a full reward upon thine enemies upon the children of Ammon.
And Enoch said unto the prophetess, Behold, ye have mocked me with vain words: now say, How shouldest thou be bound in bonds?
Now the first covenant did serve and holy commandments.
And the men of the city rose early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal broken down, and cut down the holy tree, and the calf offered upon the altar that was set up.
Thou puttest all things under his feet. For in making man ruler over all things, God hath not touched his authority; though we see not all things under him now.
And they asked the Lord, saying, Is the man present hither? And the word of Jehovah was he that keepeth himself.
Now this man went up from his city every year to worship, and to offer offerings unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Bela, Gibeath and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of his host was unto Sisera, who dwelt in the summer of the nations.
There is nothing that hath not made known unto him; there is nothing covered, but all things are open to the eyes of him whom we have to do.
And when the burnt-offering was finished, and Samuel came; and Saul went out to see him, and to bless him.
They put his array in the house of Chinneroth; And his body was fixed upon the wall of Beth.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and the inhabitants of the east, set themselves together, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Behold, I will put the wool of a sheep upon the threshing-floor; if there be dew upon the wool only, while all the earth be dried up, I will know that it is thy purpose to give Israel salvation by my hand as thou hast spoken.
And God made a tumult in the rock in a troop, and water came out of it; and when he drank, his spirit returned unto him, and he was strong again; therefore the name of that place was called worthy; it is a troop unto this day.
So Saul, putting on raiment, so that he might not be seen to be the king, and took two men with him, and went to the woman by night: and he said, Now with the help of the Spirit which thou hast, call thou the man whose name I will give thee.
Then said, Samuel, my son. And Samuel answered, Here am I.
And her wise women answered her; Yea, she answered her,
So all the people gat branches, every man cutting down a branch, and went with Abimelech at their head, and brought forth the branches against the inner chamber, and put fire unto the chamber over them; so all that were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned with it.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a Levite dwelt in the innermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, and bought for himself a wife from Bethlehem Judah.
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent unto other places; and he took thirty wives from other places for his sons. And he sojourned seven years.
And if a man hath lifted up arms against thee, and put thy life in safety, yet the soul of my lord shall be delivered in the assembly of the living with Jehovah your God; and he shall cast away the souls of them that are against thee, as hewers of a bag.
But Jehovah smote seventy men of the people of Beth-shemesh, to seek the ark of Jehovah; and great was the mourning of the people for the destruction which Jehovah had sent upon them.
And the servant answered, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver; I will give that to the man of God, and he will direct us.
For he suffered himself to death, but God had mercy on him; and not only upon him, but upon me, that I should not grieve.
And they said, Arise, and let us go against us; for we have seen the land, and it is very good: why do thou do nothing? slack not thou, and take the land for thy inheritance.
Keep thyself with me, and do not be afraid; for he that hath laboured upon my life hath laboured upon thee; but thou shalt be with me.
So Michal smote him through the window, and he fled, and fled.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, This is the man of whom I told thee: he is he that is to have authority over my people.
And by faith Abraham did as God said, when he was commanded to go forth into a tomb, and went out without knowledge whither he went.
Now the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it with them from Rithmah to Ashdod.
As for what thou hast spoken, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
And Samuel delivered the people the statutes of the kingdom, and wrote them in a book which he dwelt before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that when the Philistines came to take their prey from the dead, they saw Saul and his three sons dead on the earth in mount Gilboa.
And the name of his first-born was Joel, and the name of his second Abijah, who were judges in Beer-sheba.
So the priest gave him a holy bread: there was no other bread, only the bread of the holy bread which was brought out from before Jehovah, that it might be eaten in its place in the day that it was taken away.
And the anger of Jehovah burned against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And David went up from thence, and encamped in the stronghold of Engedi.
And Saul said, Jehovah will bless thee; for thou hast compassion on me.
The things that came unto you by my teaching and preaching, and which ye saw in me, do these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth into the country. And the two of them went forth together into the open country.
And Jehovah himself hath done that which I said: Jehovah hath taken the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it unto thy neighbor David;
Make you full of every good work, and ready to do all his lusts, working in us whatsoever is acceptable in his sight through Jesus Christ; and the glory be given unto him for ever and ever. Amen.
And he said unto him, O my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why have all this come upon us? and where are all his works of power, of which our fathers had spoken unto us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us out of Egypt? but now he hath delivered us up to the hand of Midian.
From year to year he went to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, to judge Israel in all these places.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites: for the people have kept the best of the sheep and the bullocks, as a offering unto Jehovah thy God: we have all rest to perish.
And God hath given into thy hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: what then can I compare thee? And when he said this, he became skilful.
And his brethren, and his father's people, came down, and took him up, and buried him in the earth between Zorah and Eshtaol, in the lodging-place of his father. And he reigned twenty years.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel went not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? and it was found that none came from Gilead to the congregation.
Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, he saith, Thou hast no desire for sacrifice, but thou hast made a body ready for me;
Hear ye the women of mourning by the wells of waters; There they shall return the words of the righteous acts of Jehovah, All the righteousnesses of his arm in Israel.
For the law is only a poor copy of the future, and not the holy image of those things, can not make the people that come to the altar every year with all manner clean.
Now there was a man in the Hebrew, whose work was in Carmel; and he was a great man, and had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats, and he did cut the wool of his sheep in Carmel.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Do not dwell in this place, but go into the land of Judah. Then David went and came into the city of Siddim.
And it came to pass, before the fat, before the fat was burnt, that the servant of the priest should come, and say unto the man that offereth the offering, Give me me of the flesh, to boil for the priest: he hath no taste of bread baken in water, but thou wouldest eat it not.
( As in the past of Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, let us go to the seer; for he that is called in the name of his name prophesied in those days.
And the priest said, The sword of the city of the Philistines, whom thou hast smitten in the valley of Elah, is lying in a napkin at the back of the ephod: take that, if thou wilt, for there is no other sword here. And David said, There is no other sword like that; give it unto me.
And he took thirty friends, and they were with him.
And he took off his clothes, and prophesied before Samuel; and he fell down, and stretched down his clothes, all that day, and all that night. This is the saying for the saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
And the lords of the Philistines went over with their hundreds, and their thousands; and David and his men came after them.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote the plague of Nabal, and died.
And David feared him, when he knew that Saul had come out to take his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in Hor-kiln.
And Abimelech came to the tower of the tower, and besieged it, and drew near unto the door of the tower, for the counsel of the singers.
And the concubine that he had in Shechem had a son by him, whom he gave the name Abimelech.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath multiplied women without children, so now thy mother shall be childless among women; and Edom was cut up by Samuel, bone of the bones, before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And the hand of the children of Israel increased against Jabin king of Canaan, until he was cut off.
And David said unto the Philistines, Come thou to me with a sword, and a spear, and a javelin: but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the hosts of Israel, wherein thou hast reproached.
and the sons of his body, the offspring of his body, had compassion; for he had a number of wives.
And David said unto his men, Before Jehovah, never let it be said that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the chosen of Jehovah's elect, because Jehovah's anointing oil hath been anointed upon him.
And the ark of Jehovah dwelt in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And it came to pass, when she heard the noise and the cry, saying, What is the reason of this cry? And the man came quickly and told him.
But one of the young men said unto the wife of Nabal, saying, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to speak kindly unto our master, and he answered them roughly.
not as though I had now obtained a reward or been made perfect: but I walk in the hope that I may come to the knowledge of that for which I was made the servant of Christ Jesus.
And he said, Behold, the people shall come down out of the midst of the land, and one cherub shall come by the way of the oak.
And it came to pass, that there was between the mountains that Jonathan, by which Jonathan, set his way unto the Philistines' bands, a flint covered on one side, and a impudent rock on the other side: one was called Bamah, and the other.
For the Amorites would dwell in the midst of the mountain, in Aijalon, and in Aijalon; but the children of Joseph were stronger than they, and put them to taskwork.
And it came to pass, that year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, she besieged her, so that Hanun wept, and did not eat.
so that we may flee from the hope of the hope which was set before us, that we may comfort two things, in which it is not possible to deceive God;
And she had waited secretly in the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines are fallen upon thee; and he brake the cords by him, as he shot out by a flame: and his strength was not found.
Go now, and smite Amalek with the sword, and slay all that are without mercy: slay every man and woman, every male child and suckling, every ox and sheep, the camel and the ass.
In the time long ago shall be sorrowful, and not joy; but after that they that have been taught of it, it shall obtain the increase of righteousness.
for the carcase of the beasts, whose blood is brought into the holy place of the high priest for a sin-offering, shall be burned without the camp.
And Saul took that day David, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And his sons did not walk in his ways; but the love of money received gifts, and were not righteous in judgment.
And it came to pass, when the people of Ashdod arose early in the morning, that they saw that Dagon fell down to the ground upon his face before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon and buried him again.
And Israel was in great famine because of Midian: and the cry of the children of Israel went up unto Jehovah.
and the golden courses, one for all the cities of the Philistines, the cities of the five lords, fortified cities, and fortified cities; and the great stone, where they set the ark of Jehovah, remained in the field of Joshua the Gilonite unto this day.
So Samuel made all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
if I have in any way the reward of life from the dead.
And when his servant saw that Saul was dead, he did likewise, and was joined with him in death.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made Eglon king of Moab strong against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And Hamor the son of Hassenuah went out, and stood at the gate into the gate: and Abimelech and his people arose from the place where they had waited.
It was the people of Zebulun that shed their life, even to death, with Naphtali upon the high places of the field.
Thy servant is strong and bare; and the captivity of this of the Philistines, which is uncircumcised, shall be like unto them, seeing that he hath despised the hosts of the living God.
And the man said unto him, I am come out of the army, and have fled this day from the battle. And he said, How did it go, my son?
We can well go in fear of falling into the hands of the living God.
And he said, Out of the man of famine came bread, and out of the mighty man came the sweet. And the end of three days died.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah; and they called the name called Baal to this day. It is unto the west side of Kiriath-jearim.
And the woman bare a son, and bare him a son name; and he became a man, and the blessing of Jehovah was upon him.
And they took that which was Micah made, and his priest, and came unto Shechem, to a people living and without device; and they put them to the sword without mercy, and burned down their city.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, where the bed was prepared for Saul, he went to rest.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant into the treasury, and caused them to stand among all the guests that were there, about thirty persons.
But for all this, thou hast forsaken me, and served other gods; so will I be your saviour.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter as wife to the man that overcometh Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it.
and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh enter out to take part in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and take a wife for every one of you from the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people into three bands; and in the morning watch they came unto the tents of the children of Ammon, and pursued them, and pursued them until the heat of the day: and they that were not slain were scattered in every side, so that none two of them were gathered together.
not that I seek for a offering, but for the fruit of your glory.
And the inhabitants of the inhabitants that dwell in the camp eastward, and the inhabitants of the inhabitants of the inhabitants that dwell in the camp, and the inhabitants of the inhabitants that were in the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of
And David went from thence, and hid in Adullam; and his brethren, and all his father's people, heard of it, and went down to him there.
They shall spread up as a garment, as a garment, and shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought thee up out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
For life is Christ and death.
And it came to pass after a time, when the children of Ammon fought against Israel.
And I said, Now the Philistines shall come down upon me at Gilgal, and I will make no supplication to Jehovah: and I will break myself, and I will make a burnt-offering.
And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah in the way to Shur, which is before Egypt.
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul knoweth it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a young cow with you, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, and eat me this day: and in the morning I will let thee go, after I will open unto thee all the secrets of thy heart.
And there came out a mighty company out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath: he was more than six cubits old.
Take heed to know all the secret places where he covereth, and be certain to return unto me, and I will go with thee; and I will go with thee; and if he be anywhere in the land, I will gather him among all the families of Judah.
being without father or mother, or family, having no birth nor end, being made like the Son of God, he is a priest for ever.
And the children of Benjamin, that came that day of the cities, were twenty and six thousand men armed with swords, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, seven hundred chosen men of valor.
And Caleb went against the Canaanite of Hebron ( and it was in Shushan, that Hebron was called Kiriath-arba); and he put Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, to the sword.
And the walls of Jericho came down by faith, after seven days.
And he had a mitre of brass upon his head, and he was girded with a coat of brass, and the weight of five thousand shekels of brass.
And they buried their bones in the earth under a tree in Jabesh; and they ate seven days.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Let the ephod come hither: for he went before Israel with the ephod at that time.
And he went out at the head of the city of Shechem, and made war upon Abimelech.
And Ezekiel sware unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hands,
And the princes of the Philistines said, What mean the Hebrews? and Joab said to the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me for a year or two, and I have not seen any wrong in him from the time that he came unto me until now?
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for us unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have sinned against all our sins, and sought a king.
So Libnah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head, and chief over them; and hahaah said all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And I brought you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that hated thee, and I cast them out from before thee, and delivered you their land.
And it shall not be so without any of the oath of the oath of the oath, nor of the hand of an oath:
For the rest, my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are spiritual, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are holy, whatsoever things is good, whatsoever things is of value; if there be any power, if there be any thanksgiving, let it be known unto these things.
And Saul said unto David, Thou canst not go out against this of the Philistines, and fight with him: for thou art only a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
For thou reason to give the glad tidings from the first day until now.
not one living man or woman did David to return with him to Gath, fearing that they might give account of what had happened, and say, This is what David did, and so he did all the days that he dwelt in the land of the Philistines.
And David said, What have I done now? was it not only a word?
And David rose early in the morning, and brought the sheep into the care of the keeper, and went, and went as the king of Jesse; and he came unto the posts of the stairs, when the troop went out to the battle.
So David went with him, and went with him six hundred men, and they came to the brook.
And the men of Israel came together from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and followed Midian.
And Saul longed of God, and said, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and brought the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelt between the cherubim, and Hanun and Phinehas, two sons of Ish-bosheth, with the ark of the covenant of God.
And he did great things, and smote the Amalekites, and redeemed Israel out of their enemies.
Blessings be upon me, More than all women; Blessings is greater than any in the tents.
And they gave up Jehovah, and became the servants of Baal and the Ashtaroth.
And they said, What sin shall we send unto him? And they said, five golden images of the mighty men made by thy plague and five gold, one for every lord of the Philistines: for the plague was upon you, and upon your lords.
So they hasted, and made him come out: and when he stood among the people, he was his throne above any of the people.
and thought to him that hated sinners against himself, that ye be not weary and faint-hearted.
And he was judge over Israel for twenty and twenty years; and he died in the land of his death in the earth.
What shall come upon us, if we will not know such a great salvation? for the salvation of which our fathers first had known through the words of the Lord, and which was made known unto us by whom his words came;
Therefore hath God set him in the highest place, and hath called him the name which is greater than every name:
But they rebelled against Jehovah their God, and delivered them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Jabin king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, who made war against them.
And the midwives that were with the Philistines for a certain time, and went up with them, and went up to them that were with Saul and Jonathan.
I am able to do all things by him that giveth me strength.
to the great congregation and the church of the first of them that are called in heaven, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of good men,
When ye come into the city, ye shall see him straight away, before he goeth up to the high place for the feast: the people stand before the beginning before the beginning; and after that the guests shall stand therein. So go up now, and ye shall see him.
And the children of Israel asked unto Jehovah ( for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there in those days.
And the sons of Judah did not make the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem; and the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
And when she was sick of the women that were with her, she said, Fear not, for thou hast brought forth a son. But she answered not, and hearkened not.
And it came to pass about the morning, that Samuel said unto Saul on the roof, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and he and Samuel went out together.
But in the midst of the city there was a strong tower, which all the men and the women of the city fled, and encamped, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And there was war again: and David went out against the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they fled before him.
Then went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Come in, my lord, come in unto me without fear. And he went into her tent, and she covered him.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in the midst of Mahanaim; and Jonathan returned to his house.
And now, is it true, as they have said unto me, that Saul is coming? O Lord, the God of Israel, hear thy servant, and say if these things be so. And the Lord said, He is coming down.
So the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with chains of brass, and bound him in the stocks.
So the congregation sent twelve thousand men, and commanded them, saying, Go, and bring the people of Gilead to the sword without mercy, with their wives, and with their little ones.
But this man, who was not of their household, took the tenth part of Abraham, and blessed him whom God had commanded him.
Whose end is destroyed, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, and their heart upon the earth.
For the women to go year by year mourning for the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in every year.
And he said unto him, How can I be the saviour of Israel? behold, my house is the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
Thou hast loved righteousness and hated; And so God thy God hath anointed thy head above upon the princes of them that are with thee.
And Jehovah made Israel safe that day; and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
Then he passed through the wilderness, and all the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came on the east side of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon; they came not in the border of Moab; for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, It is a old man, that cometh up with a garment. And Saul saw that it was Samuel, and he bowed down with his face toward the ground.
For if the priests change it, it must be changed in the law.
being full of the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
And he said, My sin is great: yet glorify me now before the princes of my people, and before Israel; and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah your God.
And Saul knew that Jehovah was with David; and he loved all Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou me about my name, seeing that it is a wonder?
And he did not make any more to redeem himself: as the high priest goeth into the sanctuary every year with blood, which is not his;
Then they made a line round about the camp, every man in his place; and all the host, awaking from sleep, came running out, and fled with shouting.
But not a man put his hand to his mouth in the fear of the curse.
And Jehovah had compassion on Hanun, and she bare three sons and two daughters. And the young Samuel waxed elder before Jehovah.
but consider the days after you saw the light, when ye passed through a great host of affliction;
And Saul came to Saul at Gibeah, and said, Is not David abiding near us in the hill of Tophet, before the wilderness?
And there was a certain man of Beth-maacah, of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah: he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Zuph,
Now thou shalt command thy servants that are here before thee, and thou shalt seek a man that is a sorceress on a instrument of music: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, he shall make intercession for thee on his weapons, and thou shalt prosper.
Now therefore, take ye up, and prepare a new cart, and two kine that have never come under the yoke, and gather the grain to the cart, and take away their young ones from them.
And when the children of Israel died, the children of Israel went again after the gods of Canaan, and they rebelled against Jehovah, and smote Baal their god.
Wherever they went forth, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had sworn to him; and the things was very hard for them.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I will punish Amalek what he did to Israel, when he fought against him in the way when Israel came out of Egypt.
And the men did so; they took two kine, and set them to the cart of the cart, and besieged them.
They that were full are sacrifices for bread for bread; they that have eaten are at rest; yea, she that had no children hath become the mother of seven; and she that hath a family is wasted with sorrow.
If a man trespass unto another, God will judge him: but if a man's sin is against Jehovah, who will take up his cause? But they hearkened not to the voice of their father; for Jehovah would destroy them.
Who made him angry when his voice came unto them? was it not all that came out of Egypt with Moses?
And this is the image of the present time: when the oblation which are given shall not be able to make the heart clean,
For God is true, and will not forget thy work and thy love for his name, in the help which thou gavest, and yet give unto the saints.
And Micaiah gave the office to the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And they answered, We will gladly give them. And they put down a robe, and cast every man into it, and he took them.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, If with all your heart ye shall return unto Jehovah, then cast away all the foreign gods and the galleries from among you, and turn your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him alone; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Joseph's house went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
Take heed, my brethren, that there is no occasion in any one of you an evil heart without error, turning away from the living God:
And the people were moved with compassion for Benjamin, because Jehovah had poured out his wrath upon the tribes of Israel.
And if it shall come to pass, that the name of Jonathan shall be cut off from the house of David, that Jehovah will appoint charge David.
and unto Jesus, by whom the new covenant hath been made between God and man, and to the sign of the blood which speaketh better things than Abel's blood.
And he sent, and brought him in. And he had red eyes, and fair eyes, and looked upon. And Jehovah said, Come, and anoint him, for this is he.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon: and it shall be seen that thou art not present, for there shall be none in your throne.
And they answered every time, saying, Where hast ye defied this day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and unto the south of the ascent of the gate, and the south of the Kenite.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and smote them until the morning, until there is no man of them alive. And they said, Do what seemeth right unto thee. And the priest said, Let us come near unto God.
And the men of Israel turned again against the children of Benjamin, and put to the sword no mercy, all the cities, and all the cattle, and all that was found, every city that came into their hand.
that your glorying may abound in me in Christ Jesus, through my being present with you.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come hither unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
And he brake the tower of Peniel, and the men of the city slew.
And David returned again, and smote the land, until there was no man nor a woman yet alive: and he took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the raiment; and he returned to Ahijah.
And it came to pass, when David talked with Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was joined with David's soul, and David became as his own life.
And Ezekiel said unto them, I and my people were in danger, and the children of Ammon were very cruel unto us; and when I called you, thou gavest me no help against them.
Then Jehovah gave them judges, as they that were delivered out of the hand of them that hated them.
and the other wife did every thing to make her reproach; for the Lord had not suffered her children.
then ye shall go down before me to Gilgal, whither I shall come unto thee, for the offering of burnt-offerings and peace offerings: abide there seven days until I come unto thee, and tell thee what thou hast done.
They had no one to ride, neither were there armed in the cities: there was a shield, or a spear, to be found among forty thousand in Israel?
And the seven kine stood by the way to Beth-shemesh; they passed by the way, and turned not to the right hand nor to the left; and the noise of their voice was called on the way; and the lords of the Philistines followed them, as far as the border of Beth-shemesh.
And one of the people said unto him, Thy father set the people under an oath, saying, Cursed be he that eateth bread this day. And the people were feeble, and tasted bread.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give cakes of bread unto my people; for they are weary, and I will walk after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And he went up from thence against the people of Debir: and the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
In the days of Pekah, the son of Beor, in the days of Jehiel, the highways were not used, and the wayfaring men went by the way.
And Israel and the Philistines had set their forces in array, and fought against war.
And in the field they saw an Egyptian, whom they took unto David, and gave him bread, and he ate bread, and gave him water to drink.
But he said unto me, Thou art with child, and shalt bring forth a son; and thou shalt not eat any wine, nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean; for the child shall be separated unto God from his birth unto the day of his death.
For if we have sinned after we have known the truth of truth, there is no more offering for sins.
And the Philistines came together to fight upon Israel, and three thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people of people, as the sand of the sea: and they came up, and encamped at Michmash, to the east of Beth-aven.
And it came to pass, when David's young men came, that they told the Nabal of the Carmelite in David's name, and said nothing.
But when they had rowed, they waited, and passed beyond the stone images, and went into Zoar.
But this is that we will do unto Gibeah: We will go up against it by the decision of Jehovah.
And they turned aside from their way, and came into the house of the damsel's house, the house of Micah, and said unto him, Is it well with thee?
And thy daughters shall be made to be makers of incense, and the number thereof, and the number thereof.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul served Jehovah.
And they beat Benjamin, and pursued them, and chased them from thah unto the east side of Gibeah.
that it appeared to pass through all the Praetorium, and to all the rest, that I was a prisoner for Christ.
And they took all the flocks and herds, and drove them before him, and said, These are David's.
And if a man touch his enemy, shall he deliver him safe? so shall ye be accepted of Jehovah, for that which thou hast done for me this day.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, the small one of all the tribes of Israel? and my family, the least of the families of Benjamin? why then do ye speak these words unto me?
And David came to Nob, to Abimelech the priest: and Abimelech feared him at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou by thyself, having no man with thee?
And ye have not remembered the word that saith unto you, My son, my son, despise not the Lord's vengeance, nor trust when ye are judged by you.
Go, send up thy cry unto the gods of thy chosen: Let them be thy saviours in the time of thy trouble.
And Samuel said, Let all Israel come to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for thee.
Wherefore I ought to think for you all in this way, because I have ye in my heart; for in my bonds I have in my bonds, and in my striving before the judges of the gospel, shewing that it is true, ye all have with me in grace.
It is no more my desire for Saul to be king; for he hath turned aside from my ways, and hath not done my commandments. And Samuel was very sad, and cried unto Jehovah in prayer all night.
And the Philistines went and encamped in Judah, all round about about.
And it came to pass, when the time came to give the hand of Saul's daughter, that Esther's daughter, to David, she was brought to Adriel.
And it came to pass, when the day came for Elkanah to make his offering, that he gave to shear his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, the portion of the feast;
Gilead dwelt over the Jordan; and Dan waited in his ships; Asher kept in his stead by the edge of the sea.
And all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up to Beth-el, and weeping, and stand there before Jehovah, continually daily until evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
There is an old saying, From the wicked cometh evil; But my hand shall not be lifted up against thee.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in me?
Let them consider it that go upon white asses, And those that walk in the way.
And the watchmen saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, If thou wilt show us the way into the city, we will be gracious unto thee.
And if I say, I pray thee, I pray thee, that David besought me that he should go unto Bethlehem, to his city: for it is the time of his family year by year.
Then thou shalt have no grief, and my lord's heart shall not be troubled, because thou hast shed thy life without cause, and hast condemned thy transgressions: and when Jehovah hath been good unto thee, then thou shalt consider thy servant.
Now he was ninety and twenty years old, and his eyes were fixed, that he could not see.
that ye may be accepted of your good things, that ye may be true and blameless until the day of Christ.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise in the camp of the Philistines waxed louder and louder: and Saul said unto the priest, Take thy hand.
And the second day of Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, and cut down eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, all the men of the children of Israel.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Behold, thou hast saved thee, and save Israel from Midian: have I not sent thee?
And the children of Israel served Eglon king of Moab, eighteen years.
But he made himself as nothing, taking the form of a servant, being made like men;
And Jiphthah unto the king of the children of Ammon,
who, being the brightness of his glory, and the faithful image of his riches, wrought all things by the word of his power, having set himself as an propitiation from sins, stood at the right hand of God in heaven;
These exercise it from love, knowing that I avenge the gospel.
And the people of Israel said one to another, Who shall be the first to smite the children of Ammon? let us make him head over all Gilead.
Why didst thou hold quiet among the sheep? Why didst thou hear nothing, except the watchmen dance?
And it came to pass, when Samuel heard all the people to say, that they went and told Jehovah.
But the child knew not what went on; only Jonathan and David knew it.
And his friend answered and said, Surely the sword of Joash, the son of Joash, the men of Israel; into their hands God hath delivered all the host of Midian.
He made it a statute and a statute for Israel from that day until now.
And they came before Gibeah, even ten thousand of the best men in all Israel, and the people prevailed more: but the children of Benjamin knew not that evil had come upon them.
And it came to pass, when they rose up, that his father 'father-in-law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, go not, go not this night; behold, the day is almost gone; take thy rest hither, and let thy heart be glad, and go on thy way to thy house.
But the servant said unto him, See now, in this city there is a man of God, who is highly honourable, and all that he saith is true: let us go there now; it may be that he will tell us our journey.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came to Baal-perazim, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and came to Mizpah of Gilead; and from Mizpah he went over unto the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when Saul went to inquire of Jehovah, that Jehovah commanded him not, by a dream, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And I will have mercy upon their iniquity, And will not forget their transgressions.
Now Shema the son went to Gaza; and he saw a harlot, and went in unto her.
And when he had thus spoken, he put forth the mouth of his hand out of his hand: and the name was called Melatiah.
Zebulun did not make the people of the field, nor the people of fifty men go out; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and were brought to taskwork.
And they set their host against them; and they gathered all the increase of the earth as far as Gaza, until there was no food in Israel, nor any sheep, nor oxen, nor asses.
But year by year there is a remembrance of sins in them.
And it said unto God, If thou wilt grant Israel salvation by my hand, as thou hast said,
And this shall be the sign unto you, which shall come upon the land, which shall come upon, even Phinehas, your sons, on the same day.
And his concubine was wroth with him, and departed from him to her father's house in Beth-lehem-judah, and was there four months.
so that the first covenant was not made without blood.
And there was honey upon the face of the field, and all the people came to the honey, and the merchants went from it.
For he that maketh holy and holy are all of one family: and for this cause it is no shame for him to give them the name of brethren;
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, crowned with glory and honor, because he suffered himself to death, that by the grace of God he might die for all men.
And as for me, as I have loved me this day, that my life may be my beloved unto Jehovah, and deliver me from all my troubles.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him the parable, and said, Surely I took a little honey upon the end of my staff; and now I die.
And the servants of Ahijah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not make songs of him in their dances, saying, Saul hath put to death thousands, and David ten thousands?
Thou camest not unto a mountain that shall touch, and burn with fire, and a cloud, and a dry smoke, and a violent wind,
And the people followed Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that remained after the death of Joshua, and saw all the great work of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
And if it was possible for the priests of the house of Levi, ( for the law was given unto the people); and there was that need of another priest, who was of the order of Melchizedek, and not of the commandment of Aaron?
And Jonathan said unto David, The Lord, the God of Israel, be witness; and when I have heard my father this day, this day shall I not send to David, will I not send and tell thee?
that all ye have devised against me, and not one of you gave me, when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse, and not one of thee have compassion for me, or hath caused me to know that my servant hath been moved against my son against me, as this day?
Let not my lord hearken unto Nabal, that a man of Belial; for as his name is, so is he a understanding: But I thy servant saw not the young men whom my lord sent.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him, and said unto him, Cause the man to go again to the place which thou hast given him; let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be turned against us, and deal deceitfully: how shall this man make peace with his lord? will it not be with the heads of these men?
Now when Samuel was dead, and all Israel wept for him, and had buried his city in Ramah, and had buried his city. And Saul had cast away all them that had familiar spirits, and wrought enchantments.
And when Saul saw how he understood, he feared him.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was in great affliction, and said unto him, Behold, thy servant hath heard thy words, and I have put my life in danger, that I may do that which thou hast spoken.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it, and said, Shall I go with the battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I give it? And Jehovah said, Go on; for to-morrow will I give him into your hand.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou forsaken me? And Saul answered and said, I am in great safety; for the Philistines have fought against me, and the Philistines have forsaken me, and I will not answer me by the prophets, nor by the dream: therefore I have sent thee to tell me what I should do.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth to war: and when they went forth, David prospered than all the servants of Saul, that his name was exceeding honored.
And she put forth her hand to the tent of the field, and her right hand to the hammer of the workman; and she bare to jealousy, and beat his head, and beat his forehead.
Then David, and the people that were with him, wept, and wept, and wept no more.
And all the people rose up as one man, and said, Not one of us shall go to his tent, and return to his house.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but there was no answer. So he took her up, and put her upon the ass, and went on his way, and came to his house.
Is not this David, who was named in their songs, when in the dance they said one to another, Saul hath killed thousands, and David ten thousands?
that God was able to give life unto the dead; and therefore he delivered him from death.
And all Israel was known from Dan to Beer-sheba that Samuel had been a prophet of Jehovah.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who, being without sin, offered himself unto God by the Holy Spirit, cleanse thy hearts from dead works to serve the living God?
He went down at her feet, and he was stretched out; and he bowed down, and bowed down; and he bowed down, and went down thither.
And he departed from the prophets, and came into the house.
And after he came, Jair the Gileadite, who was the judge over Israel two and twenty years.
Be free from the love of money, and of the things that ye have: for he hath said, I will be with you at all times.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, O David, my son; thou shalt do great things, and thou shalt not prevail. Then David went on his way, and Saul returned to his stead.
And the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian, came before Jehovah,
and others were tempted of being mocked by or of stripes, and with chains and prisons:
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, Wherefore hath this come upon Israel, that one tribe is cut off from Israel?
If thy young men say they shall say the same thing. Now therefore let my young men find favor in thine sight; for we are come in a good time; I pray thee, I pray thee, thou shalt have by thee unto thy servants, and unto thy son David.
There is no other holy, as Jehovah; for there is no God besides thee: There is no Rock like our God.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days the battle sought for a possession for themselves, to dwell therein; for there was no portion of the land made unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And Micaiah said, Behold, I pray thee, if I ask thee, if thou canst answer me before the seven days of the feast, behold, I will give thee thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel beyond the valley and the other side of the Jordan saw that the army of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they came out of their cities, and fled: and the Philistines came and took them for themselves.
And Jehovah said unto him, Behold, I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites, as if they were one man.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Say not, I pray thee, hear ye what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me, if thy father doth answer thee?
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, who sent thee unto me this day:
But this priest, for his life endureth for ever.
Now at the present time, men over whom death taketh the tenth: but then it was taken by one of whom it is witnesses.
And Jehovah said unto them, With them, I will save thee three hundred who drink with their tongue, and I will deliver thee, and I will smite the Midianites; and let the remnant of the people go away, every man to his place.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land: ye shall know that their altars are broken down; but ye have not obeyed my voice; what have ye done?
And to whom he sware, that they should not come into his rest? was it not to them that rebelled against his commandments?
And the man said, Israel fled from the Philistines, and there was great destruction among the people, and thy two sons, even their burnt-offerings, and Phinehas died, and the ark of God was taken.
And David said unto Ahijah, What have I done? what hast thou seen in thy servant, while I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go and take up arms against them that are now ready to fight against my lord the king?
And they believed what David said, He hath hated himself by all his people Israel, and he shall be my servant for ever.
Behold, here is my daughter, a virgin, and his handmaid: I will send them out for thee to take them, and to do with them whatsoever thou shalt: but do not commit this such thing to this man.
And the children of Israel had compassion for Benjamin their brother, saying, This tribe is cut off from Israel.
Now may the God of peace, who made that great shepherd of his flock, even our Lord Jesus, come again from the blood of the eternal covenant;
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: ye shall not serve the gods of the Amorite in whose land ye are alive; but ye hearkened not unto my voice.
And it came to pass, when the ark of Jehovah's covenant came into the camp, that all Israel cried, that the earth sounded with it.
And Jonathan went up, and girded with his hand and his feet, and his servant went up after him: and the Philistines passed before Jonathan, when he smote them, and slew his servant after him.
And the seven sons of Jesse came before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not taken any of these.
And Samuel was judge of Israel all the days of his life.
and though some preach Christ out of jealousy and oppetition, others do it out of a good heart:
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, that David took his harps and mocked: and behold, he came to Saul, and he recovered; and the demon departed from him.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver, out of the house of Baal: and that Abimelech, the number of the house, and of the physicians, gave him.
So turning their backs upon the men of Israel, and they went toward the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the city, they left them, and smote them.
What are ye better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, hath he fought against Israel, or fought against Israel?
And they journeyed there with the ambush of the night in Gibeah: and he went in, and sat in the street of the city; for no man carried them into his house for the night.
And it came to pass, when Saul came back from the Philistines, that David told him that David was in the wilderness of Engedi.
And Saul commanded Jonathan his son, and all his servants to bury David. But Saul's son Jonathan had exceeding delight in David.
I sware, and I sware, saying, They can not come into my rest.
And Abimelech was there until the middle of the night; and he arose, and took hold of the gates of the city, and drew them up, with their two train, and with their locks, and set them on his shoulders, and brought them up to the top of the hill before Hebron.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the bread thereof; and a flame came up out of the rock, and devoured the flesh and the cakes; and the angel of Jehovah appeared no more.
And the armed force of the Philistines went out to the narrow way of Michmas.
not seeking his own neighbor's neighbor, But in understanding the things of others.
And even if I offer myself as a drink offering, I give myself for the prize and the work of your faith; I rejoice and rejoice with you all:
And Achan the son said unto her, If there be seven new darts laden with me, which have never been made dry; I will be weak, and I will be like any other man.
And there shall be no need for every man to teach his brother or his neighbor, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah: for they shall all know me, both great and small.
And it came to pass in the morning, that her master arose, and opened the door of the house, and went forth to go on his way: and he saw his colt, and stretched on the earth at the door of the house, with her hands on the stairs.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with you in this matter, that all thine eyes are cast out, that I may make it a reproach to all Israel.
The same night said Jehovah unto him, Arise, and go down against their army; for I have delivered them into thy hand.
Speak ye therefore in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem, saying, Is it possible for you to be ruled with all the seventy sons of Baal? and remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the angel of Jehovah came to the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, if thou hast not born children, thou shalt be with child, and shalt bear a son.
that there is yet a great statute for the people of God.
And when these signs come unto you, behold, thou takest the occasion that is offered unto you; for God is with you.
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What evil is this which is done among you?
And he took captive a young man of the people of Succoth, and inquired of him, and asked him, and said, The princes of Succoth and the elders seventy seventy men.
And Jehovah smote after Thomas, and with all his chariots, and with all his army, before the face of a flood; and, behold, he went down from his chariot, and fled on foot.
And Shema the son went down to the woman, and set a feast, as the way was among the young men.
Where there is no forgiveness, there is no more offering for sin.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I took Israel out of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of all the kingdoms that kept you,
And Abimelech pursued him, and fled before him; and he fell a great number by the sword all the way up to the city.
And the three bands all heard upon their horns, and when they had broken the vessels, they took the fiery branches in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand ready for blowing, crying out, for Jehovah and for the plague.
And it came to pass, when Jacob and his sons came into Egypt, and smote the Egyptians, that your fathers came unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought them into this place; and he put them into this place.
And thus saith unto the Holy Spirit, To-day if ye hear his voice,
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who commanded Moses and Aaron, and brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
But of whom of the angels hath he said, Stand at my right hand, till I put all that are against thee under your feet?
And he went into the land of Heth, and built a city there, and called it Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And he shall make them captains of thousands and of fifties; and he shall put him to plow, and cut his grain, and his weapons of war, and his chariots.
And Jehoshaphat the son of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, arose, and fled after David.
So that thine enemies shall perish, O Jehovah; But let thy lovers be as the sun that goeth out in his strength; and the land was forty years.
Now Naaman was very old, and he heard from time what his sons were doing unto all Israel.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna fled; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and put all the people to curse.
And Jesse brought Shammah before him. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this man.
So David's young men turned away, and returned, and told him all that he had spoken.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man to his place.
And it came to pass, when he departed from Samuel, that God gave him a change heart: and all that signs were laid on that day.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan, to fight against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was in great trouble.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my oldest daughter, whom I will give thee for thy wife: only be strong for me, and fight in the wars of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let it not pass through me that his cause come to him, but through the Philistines.
And when the Philistines saw it, he saw David, and he had compassion on him: for he was but a child, and thirty thousand, and well favoured.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed, and of the fruit of thy vines, and give it unto his servants.
and the portion went in after the blade, and the fat was joined over the sickle; for he took not the sword out of his belly. And he went forth into the gate of Jehovah.
Be strong, O Philistia, be men: serve not the Hebrews, as they have been unto thee: go ye near the battle to battle.
And David said unto himself, Some day shall die with me by the hand of Saul; but the only thing shall I go into the land of the Philistines: then will Saul remember that I will take me out of the land of Israel, and I will escape from him.
having a golden vessel in it for incense, and the ark of the covenant, which was anointed with gold, and that had in it a pot made of gold for the manna, and the rod of Aaron that did pour forth, and the tables of the covenant of the covenant;
And when Samuel was old, he made him judges over Israel.
If then there be any comfort in Christ, let any help be given by love, in the Spirit, in the Spirit, every mercy and mercy;
And though he was a Son, by reason of pain which he made, known unto him the knowledge of the things which it was to be under the commandments of God;
And he cried unto the people, and unto Abner the son of Ner, and David said, Answerest thou not answer, Abner? And Abner said, Who is that crying out to the king?
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah hath done for my lord all that he hath spoken, that he shall do for thee, and hath made thee a ruler over Israel;
And there was a man of Benjamin named Kish, the son of Imri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Kolaiah, a Benjamite, a man of valor.
That we say with a good heart, The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid: what can man do unto me?
Have no care; but in everything with prayer and praise set thy petitions before God.
And Micaiah said unto him, Make thee dwell with me, and be a father and a priest unto me, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver a year, and thy raiment and thy food.
And Abimelech went again to the giant; and Shobach sent Sharezer and his brethren away, and would not leave them alive in Shechem.
And she arose, and fell upon the ground, and said, Behold, I am ready to be a handmaid, and washed the feet of the servants of my lord.
And Saul, and all the people with him, went together to the battle: and every man's sword turned against the man at his side, and there was a very great noise.
And David sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and speak kindly unto him in my name:
And when she had done so, she brought him with a three year old bullock, and an ephah of fine flour, and a skin full of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was very young.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, Our sin is great against thee; for we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baalim.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but thou shalt not accept thee; for the Lord will speak unto thee in the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with vermilion, and ran with vermilion.
And the king said unto Memucan, Thou shalt kill the priests. And thou hast defied the priests, and smote the priests, and smote them, and smote the two of the ephod.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Say no more, lest men of fierce spirit rise upon thee, and destroy thy life, and the lives of thy people.
And Samuel said, What is this voice of the crying of sheep, and the voice of oxen, which cometh to mine ears?
And thou shalt make the molten images with thy sickness, and the avenger of thy land; and thou shalt glorify the God of Israel; it shall be that his hand shall be lifted up from thee, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
And it came to pass, when Israel was planted, that the Midianites and the Amalekites and the inhabitants of the east came up against them;
Then said the trees unto the vine, Thou comest and reign over us.
By so much is it a good covenant which we have by Jesus.
And I answered and said, It is truth that in mine eyes thou art good as an angel of God: yet the princes of the Philistines have said, He is not to go up with us to battle.
because thou hast not done what Jehovah hath said, and hath not executed his wrath against Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done unto you this day.
But the people took of their possessions, sheep and oxen, the principal of the matters of the curse, to make an offering of them unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
while Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and in the towns thereof, and in Aroer, and in the towns thereof, and in all the cities that are by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; wherefore did ye not bring them back at that time?
And David fled from Mahanaim in Ramah, and came to Jonathan, and said, What have I done? what is my fault, and my sin against thy father, that he would avenge me?
And no man that is not redeemed by God, as Aaron was, taketh this glory for himself.
And when he had taken him down, they saw all, sitting about on all sides, eating and drinking among all the spoil which they had brought out of the land of the Philistines, and the land of Judah.
And Hatach sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou against me that thou hast come to fight against my land?
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Why hast thou not answered me to-day? if the sin be in me or in Jonathan my son, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give the Urim, and if it be in thy people Israel, make a Thummim. And as for the judgment of Jehovah, Saul and Jonathan watched.
For ye know that many after, when he obtained the blessing for his inheritance, he was turned away, though he besought them often and with weeping; for the time past were not changed.
And the voice of Jehovah spake the name of Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
And they said, How is the remnant of Benjamin to be delivered out, that one tribe of Israel be not cast out of it,
But a certain scribe hath testified, saying, What is man, that ye think him in mind? what is the son of man, that thou takest him?
Grace be with you all.
And Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, being troubled with fear.
Is it not now the time of harvest? My cry shall go up unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; that thou mayest know and know thy great sins, which thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, to save you a king.
who believed God, who gave him his place, even as Moses did in all his house.
For they that say such things declare that they seek a country for themselves.
For every house buildeth it, but the building of all things is God.
And he took up his position, and said unto the hosts of Israel, Why are ye come out to fight? am I not a Philistines and servants of Saul? send out a man for thyself, and let him come down to me.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Cush, to Gittaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served eight years.
and Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, were the children of Ikkesh.
And it is true that there have been many of those priests, because death suffereth them not for ever:
And the ark was in Kiriath-jearim for a long time, as much as twenty years: and all Israel sought after Jehovah with weeping.
And he made an girdle of the ephod from them, and put it up in his city: and all Israel went after it, and they rebelled against Jehovah; and it became a sin to the house of his house.
And David went to pass whithersoever Saul had sent him, and prospered: and Saul set him at the head of his men of war. And this was good to all the people, as well as to Saul's servants.
And the vision was so fierce; and Moses said, I am afraid of trembling.
And David said, What meant I avenge this man in the wilderness, that there was no loss of anything which was his? he hath only given me evil for good.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they set the Canaanites to taskwork, without casting them out.
And they sent men to spy out Beth-el. Now the name of the city beforetime was Luz.
And when he had been fulfilled, he became the Saviour of eternal salvation;
Then Saul sent messengers in that night unto the house of David to bury him, and to kill him in the morning. And Michal's wife Michal said unto him, If thou shalt not go aside to thee to-night, thou shalt die in the morning.
then thou shalt go on thence, and when thou comest to the oak of Tabor, thou shalt see three men going up to God to Beth-el, having with him three kids of goats, and another three cakes of bread, and another of wine;
By faith he went out of Egypt, and not repented by fear of the wrath of the king; for he kept his way, as seeing him that is hidden.
For the man that cometh into his own works hath ceased, as God did of his.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-mite, and stood down there by a great stone: and they cut up the wood of the cart a burnt-offering of the cattle unto Jehovah.
Then the trees said unto the fig-tree, Thou comest and reign over us.
But Jonathan, when he knew not his father's oath upon the people, stretched out the rod that was in his hand, and laid the portion thereof in the honey, and put it into his mouth; then his eyes were lightened.
and behold, my father, see the skirt of thy garment in my hand; for I took away the skirt of thy garment, and slew thee not, saying, I have no evil device, and I have done thee no wrong, though thou wait for my life to take it.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baals, and the grave: but now deliver us from our enemies, and we will be thy servants.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was moved.
So they went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and through the land of Atad, but they found no sign of them: then they went through the land of the sea, but they were not there: and they went through the land of the Gileadites, but they found not.
For he made not the angels rulers over the world to come, whereof I am writing.
That as it is known that some should go in, and that the first hearers of the gospel should not depart, because they went against the commandment of God,
Therefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be a snare unto you, and their gods shall fall unto you.
And the chief of the Philistines, the Philistines, that had never been dried up, did the princes of the Philistines, which had never been dried up.
And they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the chest with the golden images.
But a man came to Saul, saying, Escape and come; for the Philistines have fought against the land.
And David returned all that the Amalekites had taken, and restored his two wives.
And Saul took three thousand of the best men out of all Israel, and went in search of David and his men on the rocks of the hill-country.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had been their Saviour from all their enemies round about.
And Saul gave David his garments of war, and put a mitre of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a coat of mail.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man to his tribe, and every man of his family, every man returned unto his inheritance.
Then said he unto his servants, Behold, the man is loosed off his head; why have thou brought him before me?
Therefore have I given him unto Jehovah; for he is the Lord's stead, and he worshipped Jehovah.
As for thy asses, that were for three days, thou shalt not consider them; for they are come again. And for whom are all the desired things in Israel? are they not for thee, and thy father's family?
The kings have come to the battle, the kings of Canaan strove; in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, they took no profit in money.
And the Spirit answered them, and said, Who is David? who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants that are in these days running away from their masters.
If they say unto us, Hold peace whither thou art until we come unto thee; then will we keep our places, and not go up unto them.
And they returned, and came to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the dry land south of the wilderness.
And it came to pass by faith Joseph, when his end was nigh, that the children of Israel would go out of Egypt, and commanded his bones.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; for we have two have sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And David went away, and Jonathan went into the city.
And Samuel said, Though thou shouldest seem little to thyself, are thou not the head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah hath anointed thee with the holy oil of the holy oil.
And the second curtain was in the midst of the second curtain, which is called the Holy One.
And he said unto her, Give me now a little water, for I thirst. And opening a skin of milk, she gave him drink, and put the covering over him again.
And the three first-born of Jesse had gone with Saul to the battle; and the names of the three that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and Jonathan the third.
For this is the covenant which I will make with the inhabitants of Israel after those days: I will write my statutes, and write them in their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people:
And it shall come to pass after that ye shall come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where a troop of the Philistines shall stand; and when thou comest into the city, thou shalt see a band of prophets coming down from the high places with instruments of music before them; and they shall prophesy like prophets:
And the priest answered and said, I have no common bread here, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons' sons that went upon seventy asses; and he reigned eight years.
in the waste places, and in the mountains, and in the rocks, and in the rocks; for whom the world was not satisfied.
At the sound of my horn, and the horns of those that are with me, let your horns be sounded round about the camp, and ye shall say, For Jehovah and for a sojourner!
And Saul said unto his servants that were there concerning him, Hear now, thou Benjamite; I will give unto every one of you field and vineyards, and make thee all the captains of hundreds, and captains of thousands;
And on the day of the new moon, the second day, there was no one in the throne of David. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why hath the son of Jesse not come to the feast yesterday or to-day?
And they set up for themselves the image which Micah had made, and it was all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why is he to be put to death? what hath he done?
And the Spirit of Jehovah went from Saul, and the spirit of Jehovah was troubled.
And all these people that are here this day shall know that Jehovah will not deliver salvation by the sword and by the sword: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
But ye are come to the mountain of Zion, to the place of the living God, to the Jerusalem which is in heaven, and to the army of angels, that can not be numbered;
And now abide thou and see this great thing which Jehovah will do before thine eyes.
And they called all the multitude of the Philistines to come together, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered them, saying, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken away to Gath. So they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
But the vine said unto them, Am I to give up my wine, who maketh glad God and men, to go over the trees?
And it came to pass in the morning, when the sun ariseth, rising up early, and make a rush upon the city; and when he and his people come out against you, do to them whatsoever thou hast a occasion to do.
Now the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and all the people of the east, spread the valley as grasshoppers; and their camels were as the sand by the sea-shore, without number.
So the men of Benjamin did this, and bought wives for themselves, for every one of their number, and plundered them from the dance; then they returned to their inheritance, and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And it came to pass, that for the third time, that the Lord spake the name of Samuel. And he arose and said, Behold, I am; for thou shalt certainly say my name. Then it was known, that the voice which had spoken of the child was the Lord's name.
And he said unto them, Come after me; for Jehovah hath delivered the Moabites, your enemies, into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the breaches of the Jordan against Moab, and let none pass over.
So they went on their way: and the sun went down when they were beside Gibeah in the land of Benjamin.
For the son of Jesse shall dwell on the earth, and thy confidence shall be in safety, and thy kingdom shall be in danger: and thou shalt bring him hither unto me; for he shall surely die.
Did I take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, and to go up unto my altar to burn the incense of the offerings, and to take up the ephod? did I give unto your father's house all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel?
One rock went up before the north, At Michmash, and toward the south, before Geba.
The women had their dead given back to them alive; others suffer persecution, having no desire to go free, that they might have a good life;
But now hath the high priest of the gospel to be fulfilled, through this greater and undefiled, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this world;
What shall we do of wives for them that are alive? for we have sworn by the Lord, that we should not give them our daughters for wives.
because he was yet in his father's body, when Melchizedek came to him.
Now faith is the riches of things: and the sign which the things which are not seen are true.
And Shuppim gathered all the men of Gilead, and fought against Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, according to that which every one shall hear it shall be kindled.
And Jonathan bowed his bow and arrows to the lad, and said unto him, Take these, and return to the city.
And when they came to Gibeah, there met him a band of prophets; and the Spirit of God met him, and he sat among them as a prophet.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto Shebna, Behold, people come down from the tops of the mountains. And said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains like men.
And the king said to the guard that stood near him, Put the priests of the Lord to death; for they are on David's side, and when they have heard his flight, and told me not. But the king's servants would not put forth their hands to destroy the priests of Jehovah.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but walk against his commandment, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you and against thy king for your destruction, as it was against your fathers.
And he said, This is the manner of king that shall be thy governor: he shall take thy sons, and appoint his servants, his horsemen, and his chariots, and they shall run before his chariots;
And David and Abishai fell down to the camp by night: and Saul slept in the midst of the wagons with his spear in the earth by his head: and Abner and the people slept round about him.
And he had thirty sons, who went upon thirty asses; and they had thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which are called Jair, unto this day.
For he that is proving himself, he is able to save others when they are tempted.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, that the Philistines fought against Israel: but the voice of Jehovah heard that day the Philistines were afraid, and they departed before Israel.
Now his father and his mother knew not that this was the counsel of Jehovah, who smote the Philistines in mind. Now the Philistines began to reign over Israel.
Then smote Baal, and all the people with him, rising up early, and encamped by the side of the well side of the well: the tents of Midian were on the north side of him, under the hill of Moreh in the valley.
( and she had her throne under the palm-tree of Bohan, between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to be judged.)
for a land, drinking in rain rain, and bringing good herbs for them that wrought it, hath a blessing from God:
To morrow, concerning this time will I send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him, and thou shalt make him ruler over my people Israel, and he shall deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have seen the mourning of my people, and cried unto me.
And unto whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all things which he had, being first named king of righteousness, and then by the king of Salem, that is to say, King of peace;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast set me in a dry field, and now give me springs of water. So Caleb gave her the upper spring, and the nether well.
And the gospel came unto us, even as it did unto them: but the hearing of the word did them no good, because they were not partakers of faith with the true hearers.
And for forty years the land had peace, until the death of Othniel, the son of Kenaz.
And Hanun, in prayer before Jehovah, said, My heart is glad in Jehovah; my horn is lifted up in Jehovah: My mouth is opened over mine enemies, Because my joy is in thy salvation.
And he smote them, and drove them in the wilderness, and destroyed them; and he left him in the hand of the rock of Etam.
Let us then sanctify God in all times through him, that is to say, The fruit of the lips giveth witness to his name.
And he had two wives, the name of the name of Levi, the name of Huppim; and the wife of the children of the children of Shua was Shua; but Hanun had no children.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and said, Because this nation hath not been faithful unto my covenant that I made with their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
And it came to pass, when they were near the house of Micah, when they heard the voice which they knew not, that of the young Levite they departed from their way to his place, and said unto him, How camest thou here? and what dost thou in this place? and why art thou here?
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and there establish the kingdom in the hand of Saul.
And the people shook in the battle, and the people took oxen, and sheep, and oxen, and slew them there on the ground, and ate it, and ate the flesh with the blood.
But Caleb's son's wife was given to the friend that had been his chosen.
Then he reared up the sticks, and set the foxes out of the harvest of the Philistines, and all the pipe, as well as the harvest, and the vineyards, and the olive-tree.
And unto this day there is no priest of Dagon, or any that entered into Dagon the house, and shall put his foot upon the threshold of the house of Dagon in Ashdod.
All these came to their end in faith, not having the inheritance: but when they saw it, they delighted afar off, and testified that they were mad, and not of the earth.
And he kept the passover by faith, and laid the blood upon the houses, that the angel of death slew not their first-born.
Behold therefore the king shall choose thee: Jehovah hath set a king over thee.
And it came to pass in those days, the Philistines gathered their forces together to fight against Israel. And they said unto David, Thou and thy men go out with me to battle.
And the servants of Saul told him what David had spoken.
So therefore, O king, remember thy soul, and come down, and we will deliver him into the king's hands.
And he said, What hath Jehovah spoken unto you? hide me not, lest God be upon thee, if thou shalt keep from me anything that he hath said unto thee.
Woe is ours! who shall save us out of the hand of these gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians in the wilderness.
And it came to pass in the morning when the wine was gone, and the wife of the wife's wife told him all these things; and all the heart went out of him, and he became like stone.
Who through faith smote kingdoms, and did righteousness, and kept the mouth of lions,
I sent therefore the more gladly, that when ye shall see him again, ye may be blessed, and I may have the less sorry.
and without faith it can not please him: for whosoever shall come to God to believe that God is, and that he is a gift of all them that seek him.
And Jonathan said, Think not: and if I saw that my father offended thee, would I not tell thee?
And the Philistines stood upon the mount on one side and against Israel on the mount on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Give me that part which I have commanded thee to keep by thee.
And her father said, It seemed to me that thou hadst hated her; therefore I gave her to thy friend: but is not her younger sister more than she? therefore I pray thee.
And he said unto the lad, Go and fetch my bow from my bow. And the lad ran, and shot down the arrow.
And he said, They were my brethren, my mother's sons: By the life of Jehovah, if thou hadst delivered them, I would not put you to death.
From thence they went to mount Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And Barnabas was given to Saul, that David was at Ramah.
And it came to pass, that he called the name of Baal that day, saying, Let Baal take up his cause against him because of his altar.
in the measure of my patience, and hope, that in nothing will I be ashamed, but that without fear, as at all times, so will Christ also glory in my body, life or death.
The same fight which ye saw in me, and now have spoken of me.
And Jonathan said, My father is troubled in the land: now see how mine eyes shall be, because I have found a little honey.
And the Spirit of Jehovah blew upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men, and took their garments from them, and gave it to the men that spake to him. Then he returned, and returned to his father's house.
And after this he was in love with a woman in the valley of feasting, who was called by name.
For God had kept a certain thing for us, that it might not be fulfilled.
And David said, Thou shalt not do this, my brethren, after that which Jehovah hath delivered us, who hath delivered us, and delivered up the band which came against us into our hand.
But the righteous shall live by his faith; And if he return, My soul shall have no delight in him.
For I have no man of mind, that will be mindful of you.
And it came to pass, when their heart rejoiced, that they said, Call the son for us to mock us. And they called the son of bondage, and mocked them; and they set him between the pillars.
Then said thus, Arise, heal us; for thou hast a man's strength: for thou hast set up the ghost, and digged, and herb, and took the ornaments that were upon the neck of their camels.
Then the priest's heart rejoiced, and took the ephod, and the other gods, and the graven image, and went with the people.
For this cause it is through him that a new covenant is come to pass, that, after that which was committed away, according to that which he died, the word of God should possess them that were chosen for ever.
In that day I will do according to all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning to the last.
And by the law almost all things made clean with blood, and no blood is forgiven.
My hand shall not stretch out my hand against the man that hath anointed the holy oil; but thou shalt take the spear that is by his head, and the pitcher of water, and let us go.
Him therefore I hope to send as possible, when I can know how things shall go for me.
And over it were the cherubim of glory, with their wings covering the mercy-seat; whereof it can not be able to speak anything to him.
And it was said unto the Gatch, The son of Magdala is here. And they compassed him all the day at the gate of the city; but at the night they rested, saying, When the day cometh we shall kill him.
And his servant said unto him, Do that which is in thine mind: behold, I am with thee in all your heart.
But I gave up my profit, I gave up for Christ.
And David took the sword of Saul, and put the girdle upon him, and could not go forward; for he was not content with them. Then David said unto Saul, I am not able to go out with these, for I am not with them. And David took them off.
And David came to Saul, and waited before him: and he loved Saul, who made him his servant, and avenged him.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus in Philippi, with the ungarl and stewards of the church:
And the six hundred armed men of the Danites of trouble stood by the gate.
And they went out against him, and shut the doors of the summer house upon him, and embraced them.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had fought against the South and in Ziklag, and had prevailed, and smote, and put it on fire;
So we perceived that they could not go in, because they believed not.
But Hanun did not go; for she said unto her husband, I will not go until the child is taken from the breast, and I will take him with me, and put him before Jehovah, and he shall be for ever.
and in Hebron, and unto all the places where David and his men were alive.
And they put away strange gods from among them, and served Jehovah's servants; and his soul was wroth because of the affliction of Israel.
And his mother's house spake all this concerning him in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem: and their heart turned unto Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long shall thou weep for Saul, seeing that I have set him from his place as king over Israel? take oil in thy pitcher, and go; I will send thee unto Jesse the Beth-lehemite: for I have set a king among his sons.
So he showed them the way into the city, and they put it to the sword; but they let the man and all his family escape.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, The blessing of Jehovah be with thee: I have done what Jehovah commanded.
And it came to pass, when they went down to the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Give thy servant to pass on before us, that he might go on before us; and thou shalt abide, and thou shalt abide, that I may tell thee the word of God.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were overcome; and the men of Israel had set their way before Benjamin, and trusted in the watch of the watchers, that stood against Gibeah.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as before.
And the king sat, as at other times, by the wall: and Jonathan was before, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but there was none in the throne of David.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak in Ophrah, in the field of Joash the Archite, the Archite; and his son was threshing wheat in the place where the grapes were rent, so that the Midianites might not see it.
And he said unto them, Keep ye your eyes, and do what I do: when I come into the camp, whatsoever I do, ye shall do the same.
Give not up your hope that shall be greatly recompensed.
having no fear of them that are against you, which is a manifest token of their destruction, but of thy salvation, and that of God;
And he removed a fugitive in the land of the covenant as a sojourner, and a sojourner with Isaac and Jacob, who had a portion with him.
For ye had compassion on them that were in prison, and had joy in the loss of thy substance, knowing that thou hadst a treasure, and that thou shouldest preserve for ever.
For Jehovah will not deliver his people, because of the glory of his name; for Jehovah will will make thee a people for himself.
Our brother Timothy is cast out of prison: and if he come here in a short time, he and I will come unto you together.
Let your gentle behavior know: The Lord is nigh.
And Micaiah said unto them, If ye shall pass thus, surely I will set my full reward from you, and that shall be the end of it.
Stand now, while I shall contend with you before Jehovah, and tell you the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hath made known unto you and to your fathers.
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; Thou gavest him a crown of glory and honor, And madest him ruler over all the works of thy hands:
And she said unto her, Go in peace; and let the God of Israel give thee an answer unto the prayer that thou hast made unto him.
And he sent throughout all Manasseh, and they followed him; and he sent unto Asher, and Zebulun, and Naphtali: and they came up, and were joined to the others.
And Saul said, Avenge me between my son Jonathan and me. And Jonathan was taken.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they sought it, they said, Behold, the son of Joash hath done this thing.
And her husband arose, and followed her, and she spake unto her, and brought her again with him; and he had with him his young man and two asses: and she brought him into her father's house, and her father, when he saw him, and came to him with joy.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god that cometh up out of the earth.
the teaching of baptizing, and the putting on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of the judgment on the last day.
And he had a son named Saul, a beloved man, and a beloved man; and there was none that seeth the children of Israel: he was his head by a head than any other of the people.
but the hair of his hair was spread again after it was cut off.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were going away from me, and thou hadst not come at the time that had been set; and the Philistines came together at Michmash.
And it fell to pass, that year the children of Israel oppressed the children of Israel under the other side of the children of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites that is in Gilead, and were oppressed.
So the children of Dan sent five men from among their number, mighty men, from Zorah, and from Jaakan, to look in the land, and sought it; and they said unto them, Go and spy through the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to the house of Micah.
So all the people went to Gilgal; and in Gilgal they made Saul king before Jehovah; and peace-offerings offered peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced with great joy.
And the Philistines of Gibeah came together against me, and compassed the house round about by night; and they thought to kill me; and my servant was torn by them, and was dead.
And Ephraim made not the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
And it came to pass, when he came to a place where there was a cave digged, where there was a cave in the rock; and Saul went in for a spies; and David and his men were in the innermost parts.
And David took the head of the Philistines to Jerusalem, but he put a molten shield, and put the arms in his tent.
whose voice was the cause of the shaking of the earth; but now he hath sworn, saying, There will be yet more shaken, not only of the earth, but of heaven.
And he said unto the angel of the Lord, Let us now prepare thee, while we prepare a kid for thee.
And David said to Jonathan, To morrow is the new moon, and I will not sit with the king at his table: but let me go to a refuge in the land until the even.
And I will make myself a faithful priest, who shall do that which is in my heart and in my heart; and I will make for him a family that shall not perish; and his place shall be before my holy one for ever.
For they came up continually with their cattle, and with their tents; and they came as the locusts in number, they and their camels; and they came into the land for their destruction.
And they saved not, because it was far off from Sidon, and they had no counsel with the Syrians; and it was in the valley that is the possession of the winepress. And they built up the city, and dwelt therein.
Wherefore I was angry with this generation, and I said, Surely in all times their heart faileth, and they know not my ways;
And the princes of the Philistines gathered themselves together to make a great offering to shear their god, and to be glad; for they said, Our god hath given into our hands, the son of our enemy.
Then said the men of Israel, Be thy governor, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son after him: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And David dwelt in the wilderness, and dwelt in the hill-country in the wilderness in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
And God returned unto the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil they had done: and Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth fell upon them.
And God sent a evil spirit between Abimelech and the city of Shechem; and the city of Shechem were false unto Abimelech;
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and cut down twenty thousand of the children of Israel.
And he took the elders of the city, and beat them upon a bed of thorns, and upon a bed.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die; for it is a god whom we have seen.
And Laban returned unto his house in Mizpah, and his daughter came out, and met him with instruments and with dances; and she was his only child; he had no other sons or daughters.
And the woman ran, and told her husband, saying, I have seen the man that came to me the second day.
And when Saul heard that David had gone to Gath, he pursued him no longer.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold, an evil spirit from God is troubling thee.
And it came to pass at the time of the harvest, at the time of barley harvest, that she took a young goat, and seeth his wife; and he said, I will go in unto my wife into the chamber of the bride; but her father would not let him go in.
And Achan the son said, With a red ass I have made them red with blood, with a red ass's sandal, I have destroyed a thousand men.
And the priest said unto the people: When any man offered a offering, the servant of the priest came in, while the flesh was boiled, having in his hand a bullock with three teeth.
Take me, brethren, according to your example, and attend to them that walk after the example we have given.
And the children of Benjamin said, They shall go before us as at the beginning. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and get them out of the city into the highways.
And he waited there seven days, the time appointed of Samuel: and Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people began to depart from him.
And he said unto the men of Peniel, When I come in peace, I will break this tower.
And David answered and said unto the priest, Behold, the women have been kept from us; and as hath been done before, as I have gone forth out of the hands of the young men, though I have gone out, though it was a breach; how much more this day shall be sanctified.
Having been so much better than the angels, as the name which his inheritance is more noble than theirs.
Then Abimelech went up to Zalmon with all his people; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down branches of trees, and laid them on his back. And he said unto the people that were with him, Be alive, and do as thou hast seen me.
And this shall ye do: every male, and every woman that lieth with a man, shall be put to curse; but ye shall save the virgins. And they did so.
This day Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will subdue thee, and take away thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the sea, and the birds of the earth, and the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that Israel hath a God;
And Jotham went away, and fled to Beer, and dwelt there for Abimelech his brother.
but ye comfort one another every day as long as it is yet day; that no one may be made hard by error of you.
Then he separated three hundred men into three bands; and he gave every man a horn, and a vessel in which was a fiery branch.
And now, behold, the king is before thee; and I am old and gray-haired, and my sons are with thee: I have lived before thine eyes from my youth until now.
Therefore therefore forgive my sin, and return with me to worship Jehovah.
And when David heard that the Baptist was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath taken up my cause against the edge of the evil which he put upon me, and hath withdrawn his servant from evil, and hath sent the head of the wicked of Nabal. And David sent word to Abigail, desiring to take her as his wife.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go from us?
And Moses did as a servant in all his house, and for a testimony of the things which were spoken,
Then said the evil and evil men among them that went with David, saying, Because they have not walked with us, we will give them nothing of the substance which we have returned, but to every man his wife and his children, that he may carry them and go.
And they said, Pray for us from God, to see if the way whereon we shall prosper.
Then the five men that went to spy out the land, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the house of the house, and the molten images; and the priest was at the gate with the six hundred armed men.
For the word of God liveth and full of power, and is chosen more than any two-edged sword, dividing through, the soul and the spirit, and the bones, and the sinews, and the sinews, to see the thoughts and the thoughts of the heart.
They that fight against Jehovah shall be broken; and he shall bring forth his thunder from heaven: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; he shall give strength to his king, and he shall lift up the horn of him upon whom the oil is anointed.
But a certain woman cast a great stone upon the head of Abimelech's head.
And the light of God was yet burning, and Samuel slept in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And Deborah the son of Colhozeh and Bered the son of Nimshi made this song, saying,
and being manifested as a man, he took the lowest place, and died, even the crucified.
to whom, though he was in the likeness of God, it thought not to take himself to be like God;
and send for Jesse to be present at the oblation, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint the holy oil upon him whose name I will give thee.
And the sin of these youth was very great before Jehovah; for they gave no honor unto Jehovah.
Behold, the days are coming when thy arm and the arm of thy father's people are cut off;
And the name of Saul's wife was AchAhinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, the brother of Saul's father.
And they answered him, saying, Repent; and he said, Well, and could not speak it. Then they took him, and slew him at the thresholds of the Jordan; and forty and forty thousand Ephraim were slain.
because it was given unto you in the cause of Christ not only to believe him, but to be tormented in his account:
And the thorn said unto the trees, If it be truly thy desire to make me thy king, then come and trust in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and burn the cedars of Lebanon.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Nethaniah fled to David, that he went down to the ephod in his hand.
And this is the more also, if the second priest shall come up that is like Melchizedek,
And she set it before Saul and his servants, and they had eaten. And they arose, and went away the same night.
And Enoch was raised up unto heaven, so that he did not see death: he was found no more, for God took him away: for before he was received, he was told that he was acceptable unto God.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, before he went into the chamber of the bride, that the men of the city said unto him, What is sweet than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not been plowed with my cow, ye would not have visited me.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: verily, ye have done evil, but turn not away from Jehovah; serve his servants.
And it came to pass, after you had no desire for sacrifice, for burnt-offerings, for burnt-offerings, for sin, which are made by the law, and ye had no pleasure in them;
And Elon came to his death, and dwelt in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
But Sihon refused not, and he left Israel through his land: and Sihon gathered all his people, and put his host in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they asked the wife of the wife, saying, Go from thy husband, that he should inquire of thee by reason of evil or else, neither will we and thy father's house burn with fire; and we have brought us hither to bring us hither?
And David was greatly troubled; for the people began to stone him, because their heart was bitter, every man mourned for his sons and his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And Michal took the image, and put it in the bed, and the hair of a goat's hair at its head, and she put raiment thereon.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Thou son, the son's son's son's son, because he took his wife, and bare her unto his friend. So the Philistines came up, and bare her father's house.
Now we will do this, if God will give us.
And Abimelech with his company digged, and stood at the gate into the gate: and the other two bands made a rush upon all that were in the field, and prevailed over them.
and said unto him, This is the saying: Israel did not remove the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hands; and they smote ten thousand of them in flatteries.
And the men of Israel were to fight in the battle. And Benjamin prevailed, and smote themselves about thirty of the men of Israel, and said, They have fallen before us as in the first fight.
And they called that place the name of the Name, and offered burnt-offerings there to Jehovah.
But thou shalt turn thee this day from thy God, who hath delivered thy salvation from all thy troubles and thy travail; and thou hast said unto him, Set a king over us: and now stand thou before Jehovah by thy tribes and by thy thousands.
And the Philistines prevailed, and came not into the land of Israel any more: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
Yet go ye in the fear of Jehovah, and be his faithful servants with all thy heart, and remember what great things he hath done for thee.
and Abdon the son of Jerubbesheth, he died, and his body was buried in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of Amalek.
But the Lord said unto him, Peace be with thee; fear not: thou art in no fear of death.
And David came to Ziklag, and sent some of the goods to the elders of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Behold, here is a offering for you of the substance of them that strove against Jehovah;
And Saul said, I have sinned: return unto me, O David my son: I will do thee no more wrong, because I have loved thee this day, I have been vile, and my error is very great.
And Samuel took the bottle, and put the oil upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is not Jehovah with the holy oil to make thee ruler over Israel his people? and thou shalt rule over the people of Jehovah, and thou shalt deliver them from the hand of their enemies round about them; and thou shalt be the sign for thee:
Go not away till I come with my oblation, and put it before thee. And he said, I will not go away before thee.
and said unto him, Fear not; for Saul my father will not deliver thee into his hand; and thou shalt be king of Israel, and I will be by thee; and Saul my father shall know this.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, If thou wilt hide me, I will not eat; but if thou shalt make a burnt-offering, then let it be offered unto Jehovah: for it was not remembered that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And David said unto Abishai, Slay him not: for who, without sin, shall set out his hand against the man, on whom Jehovah hath anointed the holy oil?
And the cities which the Philistines had brought back to Israel from Ekron to Gath, and all the country round about them, Israel revolted from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And David and his men came into the city, and they saw that it had been burned down, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters.
When ye come thither, thou shalt come to a people that feareth not; and the land is enlarged, and God hath delivered it into your hand: there is a place for man upon the ground for man.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image for themselves; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests for the tribe of the feast, until the day that the ark was carried captive.
And Samuel did the work of Jehovah's house, and he was a child, and girded in a linen ephod.
And they took the daughters of these nations as wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and became servants unto their gods.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore come ye up against us? And they said, We have come up to build a son, and do to him as he hath done unto us.
And they said, Thou hast not hated us nor persecuted us; thou hast taken nothing from any man.
And when the men of Ashdod saw how it was, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us, for his hand is hard upon us, and with Dagon our god.
And from that day, Saul loved David.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves, and took up arms, and went over to the gate; and they said unto them, Why wentest thou to fight against the children of Ammon, that we should not send us to go with thee? now will we set thy house upon thee?
And he said unto Zebah and tried, Where are the men whom thou hast slain in Tabor? And they answered, as thou art, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
And Saul said unto Samuel, My sin is great: for I have gone against the commandment of Jehovah, and against your words: for fear the people, I did that which they had spoken.
Because of the hair of the mighty men of Israel, Because of the multitude of the children of Israel, they shall give thanks unto Jehovah.
And all the congregation sent unto the men of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, offering them peace.
And she said unto Samuel, Go, and if the voice return, let thy answer be, and say, Thou shalt say unto thee, Lord, for thy servant's ears are opened. And Samuel returned to his bed.
And he took his staff in his hand, and fetched five golden stones from the midst of the brook, and put them in a sack, such as was sold by a pole; and in his hand was a girdle of sealskin; and he went in the way of the Philistines.
And Saul said unto his servants, Call me a man that is a sorceress, and bring him unto me.
Then after a time he went to take her, and turned aside from the way to see the dead body of the lion, and saw a heap of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
We have an altar from which the priests that are ministers in the tent shall not eat.
not set up our feasts, as is the way of some, but keeping one another in faith; and all the more, because ye behold the day following.
And they returned to their brethren in Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What have ye heard?
And the peace of God, which is deeper than all knowledge, shall keep your hearts and mind in Christ Jesus.
For they also suffered us for a short time, as it seemed good to them; but he worketh it for us, that we may be holy as he is.
At that time they put about ten thousand men of Moab to the sword, every mighty man, and every man of war; not a man departed.
So Shema the son went, and fetched three hundred the foxes, and some sticks of wood; and he put the oxen tail to tail with a stick between every two tails;
But I have faith in the Lord that I will come before.
And at the end of two months she returned unto her father, who did with her as he sware, and was not touched by a man; and it was a statute in Israel.
Then Abigail arose, and went upon her ass, and five maidens, after the men whom David had sent; and she became David's wife.
They came down out of Ephraim into the valley; after thou, Benjamin, among thy oppressors; from Machir came down the captains, and from Zebulun them that is in whose hand the prince's rod.
And he said unto him, We are in our way from Bethlehem Judah, unto the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim. I came from thence, and went to Bethlehem Judah: now I am at my way, but no man shall take me into his house.
And he sent unto them that were at Beth-el, and in Ramah of the South, and in Jattir;
And being called by God a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And every high priest is given power to take unto God the things that are given and sacrifice; and this man must be like unto them, to have something for a oblation.
So four thousand men of Benjamin died that day, all mighty men of war.
And it came to pass the day that aforetime before Saul came unto Samuel, saying,
And they passed through the Red Sea as though it had been dried up, and the Egyptians were troubled when they were seeking to do the same.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines for twenty years.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, and Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
But the hand of Jehovah was hard upon the people of Ashdod, and he sent pestilence upon them throughout all the region of Ashdod.
being circumcised on the eighth day, of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, a Pharisee, a Pharisee;
in part, with reason of blasphemy and injurious words, before the eyes of every one, and in part, in being joined with those who were accused in this way.
For a covenant hath fulfilled after death; For what power hath been as the man that made it alive?
So it came to pass on this day, that she gave him no peace; for he asked him until his soul was troubled.
And Saul took for himself three thousand men of Israel, of whom he had two thousand with him at Michmash and in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand of Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he returned unto their tents.
But Saul and the people smote him not; and they kept the choice of the flock, and the cattle, and the fat beasts, and the lambs, and whatsoever was good, not willing to put them to the curse; but every thing that was ill, and that which was bad, they put to the curse.
Come, ye princes of Israel, Who gave yourselves among the peoples: praise Jehovah.
What thou hast done is not good. By the living, Jehovah liveth; for thou hast not spared thy lord, the man upon whom Jehovah hath anointed the holy oil. Behold, where is the king's spear, and the water which was by his head?
The vengeance of God is upon David, If the morning cometh, And there is so much as one male of his people.
Then said to him, Now where is thy great words, when thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast brought down? go out now, and make war upon them.
Now there was a young man that dwelt in Beth-lehem-judah, of the house of Judah and a Levite, who was not a elders of the place.
I go forward unto the mark, even the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together at Aphek: and the children of Israel encamped by the well of Jezreel.
And he sent to Abimelech secretly, saying, Behold, the son of Tabeel and his brethren have come to Shechem; and they shall build the city against you.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and set themselves in array against Gibeah.
And after him Abdon the son of Jephunneh, the Pirathonite, was the judge of Israel.
And this was called the name of Nabal; and his wife's name was Abigail: she was a woman of understanding, and pleased eyes; but the man was cruel and evil in his ways; he was of the family of Caleb.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's house in Israel, that I may be son-in-law in the king?
So Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand: and he went before the people.
And they took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they put to death at the rock of Oreb; and as for as many as they were as the treading of the winepress; and they pursued after Midian; but the heads of Oreb and Zeeb they passed over the Jordan.
And Israel sent men to the king of Edom, saying, Let me now go through thy land: but the king of Edom hearkened not to them. And he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel dwelt in Kadesh.
And may ye, while I live, ye shall be gracious unto me, as Jehovah is gracious, and keep me from death.
And after him, Elon the Pelonite was the judge of Israel: and he was judged for Israel ten years.
So they went up to the city: and when they were found, they came into the city, and Samuel met them with them to the high place.
What am I to say? For there would not be time to give the sect of riot in, Barpers, and Sheva, of whom David and Samuel and Samuel and the prophets:
But David sware again, and said, Behold, thy father, that I have loved thee, he said unto himself, Let Jonathan know not this, for it shall be a lamentation unto him; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is only a way betwixt me and death.
And on the third day I will send arrows from my bow upon the side of it, as it is a mark.
and ye have gone against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, even seventy men upon one stone, and made Abimelech, the son of his handmaid, king over the city of Shechem, because he is thy brother;
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? for whom seekest ye? for a dead dog, a moth.
And when he had given the offering, he sent away the people that had come with the offering.
because for the sake of Christ he was nigh unto death, and to put upon me his life.
constant my joy by the same mind, having the same love, being in unity and in one mind;
And he said unto them, I have a request to make unto you; let every man give me the golden rings; for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmeelites.
Give ear to them that are rulers over you, and do as they say, that they watch over your souls, that they may give account of them; let them be able to do this with joy, and not with sorrow, because that would not profit thee.
Then said Saul unto his servant, Thou hast spoken; come, let us go. And they went into the city where the man of God was.
But if ye yet do evil, then shall thou destroy thee and thy king.
And Jehovah said unto him, Behold, there are more people than is necessary; bring them down to the water, that I may put them to try thee there; and whosoever I say shall go with thee; and whosoever I say, I shall not go.
He will keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall perish in the shadow of darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.
He lifteth up the poor out of the dust, and he that is in need of the lowest place, to give them their place among princes, and for their inheritance the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and hath made them the foundation of the world.
And David said unto Ahijah, If now I have favor in thine eyes, let me have a place in one of the cities of thy land, to dwell therein; for it is not right for thy servant to dwell with thee in the king's city.
Therefore let us all, that ye may abound, be of this mind: and if ye know a certain mind, this also will God show thee:
And they waited till they were ashamed; but the doors were still shut. So they took the key, and opened them, and behold, their lord stretched forth dead upon the threshing-floor.
having our eyes set upon Jesus, the lead and the end of our faith, who passed through the cross of the cross, not despise for the shame, because of the joy which was before him, and who hath already stood at the right hand of God's throne.
Then David arose, and fled that day for the fear of Saul, and went to Ahijah the king of Gath.
And Abraham called Isaac unto Isaac, when he was tempted: and he with whom the promise was made up the only son of his own body,
and Carmel, and in the cities of the tribute, and in the cities of the Kenite;
And in the same place he saith again, They shall not come into my rest.
And the inhabitants of Shechem sat on the tops of the mountains; and they smote all that went by the way, and plundered them; and they spake this word unto Abimelech.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who was it that said, Is not Saul our king? give the men up, that we may kill them.
And Jesse called for Abinadab, and brought him before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this man.
For Jehovah will punish his love; Every one that sweareth as his son seeth him.
And Abimelech rose up with him, and the people with him, in four bands, to prepare Shechem.
And the children of Israel forsook Baal and Tartak, and worshipped the Lord only.
I went out after him, and smote him, and took it out of his mouth: and if he turned upon me, he came at me, and I took him by the hair, and smote him, and slew him.
And the ark of God was taken; and the ark of Jehovah and Phinehas the sons of Ish-bosheth were slain.
Now when he had gone, the king's servants came, and saw that the doors of the summer house were shut; and they said, It may be that he is in his summer house for a sure purpose.
And the watchmen of Saul looked out from Geba in the land of Benjamin, and saw all the host that flowed away, and ran thither and thither.
And Saul knew that the voice was David's voice, and said, Is thy voice David, my son? And David said, It is my voice, my lord king.
Remember them that are in chains, as if thou wast bound with them, and those that are in trouble, as ye are bound in the body.
And Jonathan overtook them, and his servant, Jonathan and his servant, put to the sword of twenty men, throughout the midst of the half of Mamre.
And it came to pass, that, after he had called all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the rising of the nations as far as the river Kishon.
Wherefore, if ye have here five loaves loaves, give them into my hand, or whatsoever thou hast.
When thou hast gone away from me this day, thou shalt see two men in the grave of Rachel, in the land of Benjamin, at the land of Benjamin: and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou sawest, and now thy father, despise no more for the asses, saying, What shall I do for my son?
If thou shalt hearken unto the fear of Jehovah, thou shalt hear his voice, and thou shalt not go against the commandment of Jehovah; but thou shalt be faithful unto Jehovah thy God; thou and the king shall reign over you, and thou shalt prosper.
Then said it unto Saul, Behold, the people sinned against the Lord, taking the blood with the flesh. And he said unto them that told him, Let now a great stone roll unto me hither.
And David said unto his men, Put on your swords, every one of you; and every man put on his sword; and David did the same; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred watched over their substance.
So David and his men rose early in the morning to return unto the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness for us: for he said,
And he said unto the messengers that had come, Say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow, by the time the sun is high, ye shall be saved. And the ambassadors came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
They shall perish, but thou art for ever; They shall be old as a garment.
How much more, if the people had willingly taken their food from the spoil of those that fight against them! Shall there be much destruction among the Philistines?
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered us into our hand, he that fighteth against us, who made our land waste, and slew us.
Then went up into Gibeah to Gibeah, to see Saul, and said, Is not David abiding among us in the strongholds, in the hill of Zoan, in the hill-country of the wilderness?
And it came to pass, when he returned, that he said unto his father and to his mother, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines: and now I have found her for my wife.
And they said, He is before you; go quickly now; for he is come into the city this day; for the people are sacrificing in the high place this day.
for our fathers received favor by God.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people, and what they say unto thee, They have not turned away from thee; but they have turned away from me, and would not seek me king over them.
And the children of Asher took not the land of Egypt, nor Sidon, nor idolaters, or Achzib, nor swaddled, or Rosh, or Rehob,
And it came to pass, when Jehovah commanded them, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for Jehovah was moved by their groaning because of them that hated them.
And he had numbered the children of Israel: the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, the wife of David, to Hosea the son of Laish.
And it came to pass, when they rose up early in the morning, and went down to the ground upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off upon the threshold; only the base was in its place.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, saying,
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and took their possessions from the tents.
And the children of Dan journeyed; and when Micah saw that they were stronger than he, he returned to his house.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his eyes.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah will judge me against thee; but my hand shall not rise up against thee.
So he brought the people down to the water; and the Lord said to the banquet, Put on one side, and eat the water with their tongues like a dog; and likewise, all them that handle their knees unto the water, and drink.
Let your desire be for peace with all men, and to be sanctified, without that no man can see Jehovah.
If he say, It is well, thy servant shall be at peace: but if he be angry, then thou shalt know that he hath a evil heart against me.
Behold, thou hast seen this day how Jehovah hath given thee up into my hand even now in the clefts of the rocks: and some would have me put thee to death, but I had compassion upon thee: for I said, I will not forsake my hand against my lord, who hath anointed the holy oil.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bring thee, and deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Give me your oath, that ye shall not fight against me.
Then Saul fell down on the ground, and was afraid because of Samuel's words; and there was no strength in him, for he did not eat all that day nor all that night.
And Esarhaddon the son of Joash returned to his house, and dwelt there.
And he said unto them, This is what Micah did for me, and he gave me hire, and I became his priest.
And in the morning Jonathan went out into the field at the time that he had said unto David, and had a little lad with him.
And the people of Beth-shemesh sat in the valley, and lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced when they saw it.
He shall take the tithe of thy sheep, and ye shall serve him.
And it came to pass, when he came thither, that he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and all the children of Israel went down with him from the mountain, and he at their head.
and the law maketh high priests of men that are weak; but the word of the oath, which hath been made after the law, doth call to a Son, in whom all good is for ever.
All the border of the Amorites was theirs, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, even unto the Jordan.
For he of whom these are said of another tribe, of which no man hath offered at the altar.
Behold, she cried out of the window, and cried out, the mother of Anathoth cried out by the window, Why is his chariot so long? when shall the noise of his wheels be heard?
For he put his life in safety, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah delivered all Israel: ye saw it, and rejoiced: wherefore then dost thou sin against him that is not guilty, seeing the death of David?
For when God sware unto Abraham, because there was no great oath,
And Benjamin returned, and gave them the women whom they had shed from the women of Jabesh-gilead; but yet there were not enough for them.
And it came to pass, when they came up out of Egypt, that Israel went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And the men that were not found died, and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
that he may save all that come to God by him, because he liveth to make supplication unto God for ever.
Now the sons of Eli were evil and worthless men, knowing not the Lord.
For we are the circumcision, that worship God, and boast in Jesus Christ, and have no faith in the flesh:
And the wife of Gilead bare the sons; and when her sons were men, they sent jah, saying, Thou hast no portion in the inheritance of our father's house, for thou art the son of another woman.
But if I walk in the flesh, if this is the fruit of my work, I know not what reason to make.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tidings hath told thy servant that Saul hath purposed to dwell, and to destroy the city for me.
then thou shalt cry for thy king, whom thou hast chosen thee; but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and rejected Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim, and served them.
For God is my witness, how my love goeth out unto you in the mercies of Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel saw that they were in the midst of the people; for the people were troubled, and they hid in the fields, and in the forest, and in the rocks, and in the dens, and in holes.
And he took two oxen, and cut them up, and cast them through all the land of Israel by the hand of couriers, saying, If any man shall not come out after Saul and Samuel, he shall be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah came upon the people, and they came forth like one man.
And it came to pass after that the children of Judah went down to make war upon the Canaanite that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
the Holy Spirit testifieth by this that the way into the holy place had not at that time was opened, while the first tent was yet in being;
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Do not return without him, take him in his bed, that I may kill him.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Behold, we have returned unto thee; go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and make thee our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
Then the feet of the horses were sounding, And the stamping of their horses.
But they returned, six hundred men, and fled unto the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness, and dwelt on the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And Jehovah will deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines: and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And after a long time, he called a certain day, and spake in David, saying, This day, as he spake before, behold, if thou wilt hear his voice, be not stiffnecked,
For if we keep the riches of the faith which we had at the beginning, even until the end, we have a part with Christ;
Then David said, Shall the men of Keilah give me, and my men up to Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee.
And it came to pass, when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, and thou saidst unto me, We shall no more; we shall have a king for our governor: for Jehovah thy God was thy king.
Now these are the golden images which the Philistines have sent for a sin-offering unto Jehovah: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron, one for Ekron;
And being certain of this, I know that I will walk and walk with you all, for your rising and joy in the faith;
Then David took from her hands her sacrifice; and he said unto her, Go to thy house in peace; behold, I have heard thy voice, and received thy oblation.
( for they that have been made priests without an oath, but this one was made a priest by an oath by him that saith of him, Jehovah commanded his oath which he shall not return, that thou art a priest for ever);
And in the same way ye shall rejoice, and partake in my joy.
Ye had no joy in burnt-offering, nor in burnt-offering.
In bitter hatred I persecuted the church: I kept all the righteousness of the law unto the last.
And the weight of gold rings which he took from them was one thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; besides the shields and jewels and the purple garments that were upon the kings of Midian, and the bands upon their camels' neck.
And Joseph stretched out his left hand, and took the sword from his right side, and sent it into his belly.
And I pray my prayer, that ye should increase more more and more in knowledge and knowledge:
And it came to pass, when they were gone out from the house of Micah, that the men from the house of the house of Micah came, and overtook the children of Dan,
For thou art with child, and shalt bring forth a son; his hair shall not be cut off; for the child shall be separated from his birth; and he shall bear the work of Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And God hearkened unto the voice of man: and the angel of God came to the woman when she sat in the field: but her husband was not with her.
And Samuel took a young lamb, and offered it as a burnt-offering to Jehovah; and Samuel prayed unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered.
I will not cast out from among them any of the nations, which Joshua died in this land;
And when they were on the way to the city, they saw some virgins going out to drink water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And they said, Behold, every year is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is northward of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway, which goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and toward the south of Jokneam.
And it came to pass at that time the Philistines assembled against Israel, that the men of Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped against the Philistines; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And the wife of Caleb's wife wept against him, and said, Behold, thou hast no love for me but hatest me; thou hast borrowed the children of my people, and have not answered me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not answered my father or my mother; shall I give it unto thee?
But of the brethren in the Lord's brethren, with reason of my bonds, all the strong to give the word of God without fear.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And it came to pass in this manner, that Abimelech was confirmed by God for the evil that he had done to his father in smiting seventy brethren.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua; and these are the names of his daughters: the elder was called, and Michal the younger:
Therefore, holy brethren, elect chosen in heaven, think unto Jesus the ambassador and the high priest of our faith;
And this man was more honorable than Moses, even as the builder of a house is more honorable than the house.
and that every tongue may testify that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Then Saul went down to the wilderness of Adullam, and took with him three thousand chosen of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Adullam.
Then Saul came up to Samuel in the gate of the city, and said, Tell me, if ye will be so good, into the house of the seer.
And Jonathan took off the robe, and gave it to David, and gave it to David, with all his shields, even to his sword, and his bow, and the girdle round about his loins.
And every one that was in trouble, and every one that owed, and every one that was bitter in soul, came together unto him, and he was captain over them: four hundred men were joined unto him.
And the son of Amasa went down to Timnah, and his father and his mother, and came to the vineyard of Timnah; and a young lion ran out at him.
For every man shall swear by the greatest; and the sentence of the oath shall perish.
And Samuel did as Jehovah said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came out to him in fear, and said, Wilt thou come in peace?
Hear ye now their voice, and reprove them, and give them a court of the law of the king, who shall be their prince.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, removing from the city; and as before, at their first hand, they smote themselves about thirty men of Israel on the highways, which goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, and in the open country.
And the princes of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, stood in the assembly of the assembly of God, four hundred thousand footmen, armed with swords.
that ye may be holy and gentle, the children of God without sin in a perverse and foolish generation, among whom ye are as lights in the world,
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, that he delivered them, and Azel the son of Gera, the Benjamite, and his left hand; and the children of Israel sent an offering by him unto Eglon king of Moab.
For God will be the reward of thy will and of thy acts, for his good pleasure.
And Michal's daughter Michal loved David: and Saul heard it and pleased.
And it came to pass, while he slept, that she found the seven seals of his coat, and fastened with the nail, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and awaked upon thee, and awaked down quickly, and dragged up, and dragged up.
Thus stood on and fro, and the three hundred men that were with him, at the beginning of the camp, at the beginning of the court, when the watchmen had only taken their place; and the trumpets were sounded, and the vessels brake.
And his daughter in law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child, and in the time when she conceived; and when she heard that the ark of God had been taken, and that her husband was dead, she died, and she travailed.
And we shall say that in Abraham, the Levite, who hath a right to take the tenth part, gave it.
And the wicked spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul, when he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David prayed for him.
And it came to pass, that, the governor of the city, when he heard the son of Tabeel, heard him, saying,
So the Philistines fought against Israel, and Israel prevailed, and every man fled to his tent; and there was great destruction; and there were slain thirty thousand footmen.
And Saul, with Jonathan his son, and the people that were with them, waited in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the tents of the Philistines were at Michmash.
And the fig tree said unto them, Am I to give my new bread, and my good fruit, and go over the trees?
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou deceived me with the son of Jesse, giving him food, and a sword, and inquired of Jehovah for him, and with him that he might contend against me, that he should contend with me, and contend with me, as he is doing now?
with knowledge of the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming seasons;
And Tilgath-pilneser sent for Zebulun and Naphtali to dwell; and ten thousand men followed him; and Deborah went up with him.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah, the princes of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard of it, and were afraid.
And I beseech you, I beseech you, help my work, to see to the necessities of those women who ministered with me in the gospel, with diligence and the rest of my brethren, whose names are in the book of life.
But Eshton went after the chariot, and the host as far as the oppressed of the nations; and all the army of murmuring was slain by the sword; and there was none left.
The vengeance of Jehovah shall be upon Jonathan, if it please my father to do thee evil, and I will not command thee, and send thee away, that ye may go in peace; and Jehovah will be with you, as he hath been with my father.
They were stoned, they were hewn up knives, they were tried, they were slain with the sword; they went about in rams, and in labor; being afflicted, and in pain, and persecuted,
And there was great fear in the tents, and in the field, and in all the men of the guard, and the pursuers trembled; and the earth was moved with a great rushing, and there was a fear as of God.
For Christ entered not into a holy place, which was made by men's hands, as a copy of truth: but he went into heaven, and now standeth before the face of God for us.
And it came to pass, when Saul had taken his place as the governor of Israel, that he fought against them that were against him, Moab, and the children of Ammon, and the children of Ammon, and the kings of Zobah, and the kings of Zobah, and the king of the Philistines: and he went along, and smote them.
Give the words of love from me, to them that are rulers over you, and unto all the saints.
Now when Saul's old friends saw him among the band of the prophets, the people said one to another, What hath come to Saul the son of Kish? is even Saul among the prophets?
And Deborah a woman, a woman prophet, his wife, was a judge of Israel at that time.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him in Riblah, as Nimrod, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And a certain man of the servants of Saul dwelt there that day, and stood before Jehovah his name, an Edomite, the mighty of Saul's guard.
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with David, and departed from Saul.
So they journeyed again, and the little ones, and the cattle, and the goods before them.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah: come, and gather it into your country.
Now the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
And the meal-offering took up the shoulder with the fat tail upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the portion which hath been kept for thee: take it as the portion of the feast; for it was kept for thee, until the time came, and until the guests were present. So that day Saul took food with Samuel.
I beseech this more earnestly, in the hope of returning to you shortly.
And he turned aside from him to one of the other men, saying the same words: and the multitudes answered him.
and because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body, and became like them; that by his death he might destroy him that was worthy of death, that is to say, The devil;
seeing that we give them our daughters as wives? for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
but they that preach Christ in a spirit of race, not of their hearts; but with reason of giving me sorrow in my prison.
But one of thy family shall not be cut off by my hand, and his eyes shall be darkened, and sorrow shall be in his heart; and all the seed of thy house shall perish by the sword of men.
And they sat down and drank, and the two of them alike. And the damsel's father said unto the man, If it please thee, lie here to-night, and let thy heart be glad.
And it came to pass about a month after this, that Nahash the Ammonite came up and besieged Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve us.
And as for me, I will never go against the commandment of the Lord, that I pray unto you: but I will teach thee the good and the right way.
But go on doing good and giving to others; for God is pleased with such offerings.
And he said unto him, If now I have grace in thine eyes, then give me a sign that it is thou that speak unto me.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up first to make war for us against the Canaanites?
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of their enemies, into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of their enemies round about, that they might not stand before them.
And a man of God came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Did I show myself unto thy father's people, when they were in Egypt, servants in Pharaoh's house?
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you before long, that I may be comforted when I have heard you.
I thank my God in all remembrance of thee.
Let my lord the king hear now unto the words of his servant. If the Lord that provoketh thee against me, let him take a offering; but if it be the children of men, let them be cursed before Jehovah, to cause me to drive me out this day, and keep me from my place in the possession of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And she fell upon his feet, and said, Avenge me, my lord, my lord; let thy servant speak unto thee, and hear the words of thy servant.
But if thou canst not answer me, then thou shalt give me thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Avenge me, and let us know what it is.
Therefore Jehovah smote Baal, and slime, and Iphtah, and Samuel, and Samuel, and brought you out of the hand of them that fought against thee, and saved thee.
And when the Philistines heard the voice of their cry, they cried, saying, What is this great cry among the tents of the Hebrews? then it was known unto them, that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
But I was exceeding glad in the Lord, that your care is for me to live; though thou didst seek me, yet thou wast not able to perform it.
Then said unto God, Be not angry with me, if I say only this, let me make a lie with the wool; let the wool now be dried up, while the earth is covered with dew.
Now Baruch the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, came up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of Arad; and he went and dwelt among the Amalekites.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and put them down upon the rock, and poured out the pottage over them. And he did so.
And Saul waited in the uttermost part of Geba under the fruit of Geba in Gibeah: and there were about six hundred men with him.
But now at the end of these days, it came unto us through his Son, to whom he hath given all things for an inheritance, and by whom he made the order of the generations.
For every one that taketh milk void of the word of righteousness is a child.
and exhort one another at all times to love and good works;
And it came to pass, when they came near the day of Jebus, that the servant said unto his master, Now let us go from our way into this city of the Jebusite, and bury our night there.
And he said, Behold, I am come to do this: he took away the old, that he might set the new order in its place.
So they sent, and gathered all the multitude of the Philistines together, and said, Cast the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return unto its place, lest we die with us and to our people: for there was a great fear of death throughout all the city.
and because by the law of God death cometh to men once, and after that they are judged.
So the law which went before is put on one side, because it was weak and without profit.
and to the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, the hearers of the hearers of that speak not to be said unto them,
and the sin of thy servant shall be forgiven: for Jehovah will surely strengthen thy house, because my lord shall fight in the war of Jehovah; and there shall no evil be seen in thee all thy days.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make a king for them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let every man return unto his city.
Thou shalt not take thy servant to be a man of Belial: for my words have come from me, sorrow and sorrow.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the multitude of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men and women were upon the roof, looking upon the time to the Syrian.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth, thou shalt no plague befall thee.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron: and when the ark of God came to Ekron, the people of the city shouted, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us for the destruction of us and of our people.
and Joshua gathered together the children of Ammon, and Amalek; and they went and smote Israel, and took the city of palm-trees.
Then there shall stand upon an altar there unto Jehovah, and he shall call the name of Jehovah's name: unto this day it is at Ophrah, of the Herness.
and they gave him part of a cake of figs, and of some grapes; and after the food, his spirit returned unto him; for he had neither eaten nor drank for three days and nights.
And they brought the ark of God into the house of Dagon, and put it by the side of Dagon.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and that day the children of Israel slew five thousand and twenty thousand, one hundred men of Benjamin, all of them.
And it came to pass in the day of battle at Michmash, that not a sword or a spear to be found in the hand of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan: only Saul and Jonathan his son had had them.
And it came to pass at that time, that Samuel knew not Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah come to him.
And he said unto her, If they only put me round about me, I will be weak, and I will be like any other man.
But he would not, saying, I will not eat. But his servants together with the woman made him eat, and he delivered them. And he arose from the earth, and sat on the bed.
And the Philistines fought against Israel, and the battle was hardened: and Israel prevailed against the Philistines, which smote the sword round about their host in the field.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a mountain afar off, with a great space between them.
Wherefore, though ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that ye should not teach you of the beginning of the mystery of God's revelation; ye have become as babes that have need of milk, and not of partakers.
She shall have nothing that cometh from the vine for her food, and shall eat no wine, nor strong drink, nor any unclean thing; let her take heed to do all that I have commanded.
And it was so, that he rose up early in the morning, and empty the wool in his hand, and he brought out a bowl full of water from the dew upon the wool.
But Melchizedek fled; and they followed him, and overtook him, and had his thumb, and his great toes cut off.
And Midian was stronger than Israel; and because of Midian, the children of Israel digged for themselves in the mountains, and overthrew the rocks, and the strongholds.
When he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first covenant old: But all that is sold of old and of old things shall not be found again.
Therefore, as we are so many a cloud of witnesses, having cast off every weight, and the sin into which we come, let us run to run in the way which is called for us;
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose up early and made an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
and I will go out, and will stand by my father's side in the field where ye are; and I will speak with my father concerning thee; and I will tell thee, and I will tell thee.
And David said to Abishai the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, Who shall go down with me unto Saul's tents? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
in times past the word of God unto our fathers through the prophets, in divers kinds, and in divers customs,
And the Levite said he would dwell with the man; and he became him as one of his sons.
Wherefore cause us to pass from the beginning of Christ to abound; not again that wherein it is founded, that is, the hope of the dead works, and the faith of God;
Brethren, I know that I am not come to that knowledge: but one thing I do, that which passeth by the beginning, and that which is before,
And yet again, let them yet believe, that there shall be a casting away of those things which are made, that the things which are made, that there may be that which can not be shaken.
But he said unto them, I will not be a ruler over thee, neither shall my son be ruler over you: it is Jehovah who shall rule over you.
And Jehu went out, and when she had said, Come, and said unto him, Come, and I will let thee see the man that thou seekest. And he entered into her tent, and saw, and behold, he stretched out the tents with his head.
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the brother of Achbor, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, who had the ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan had gone.
And Moses was secretly hid by his father and his mother three months after his birth, because they saw that he was a goodly child; and they feared not the king's commandment.
and let them that all their lives were in fetters, because of their fear of death.
And go not from the way to the idols of idols, wherein there is no profit, nor save; for they are false.
And the men of Israel had turned aside, and the men of Benjamin were afraid; for they perceived that evil had overtaken them.
And they said, If thou sendest away the ark of the God of Israel, thou shalt not bring it without sacrifice, but send him a sin-offering with it: then thou shalt have peace again, and thou shalt know the burden of his hand from thee.
Are they not divided, they divided not the stuff among them: a young damsel, or two to every man; and to Sisera of fine work, they wrought in fine colors on this side, and for the king's neck.
And it came to pass, after they had taken it away, that the hand of Jehovah was stretched out against the city to destroy it: and the plague of leprosy fell upon all the men of the city, small and great.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, he was a hundred and ten years old.
Then Saul returned, and pursued the Philistines no longer: and the Philistines returned to their stead.
Having, being content to suffer pain with the people of God, than for a short time to have a taste of the pleasures of sin;
And David said unto Abiathar, I was a day that day, when the persecutest was there, that he would bring the tidings unto Saul: I am surety for the live of all thy father's house.
And it came to pass on the next day, that the spirit of God came upon Saul with great power, and prophesied like a prophet among the men of his house, while David loved him, as he was day by day: and Saul had his spear in his hand.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants flames of fire:
And it came to pass, if they had remembered the land from which they went out, that they should turn backward.
He asked for water, she gave him milk; And she put butter before him in a balance.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines journeyed, that David came near to David, and David hasted to run before the host, and the face of the Philistines met the face of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel went forward against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And it came to pass after this, that he thirsted with water, and cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast delivered this great deliverance by the hand of thy servant, and I die, and I die; and I shall be delivered into the hand of this people that are uncircumcised.
And Saul, the javelin of his hand, said, I will smite David, and beat him to the wall. And David fled from him twice.
And Samuel went up from Gilgal, and the rest of the people pursued after Saul against the men of war, and came from Gilgal to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: and Saul took the number of the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Behold, I have spoken that thy house and thy father's people should stand before me for ever: but now, thus saith Jehovah, Let it not be so; I will honor them whom I am glorified; and I will accept my eyes.
Be not grieved, as when ye provoked me to wrath, In the day of trial in the wilderness,
And it came to pass, when these things were in the beginning, the priests also went into the first tent at all seasons, for prayer and the sacrifice.
And the old man said, Peace be with you; suffer all that are needful for thee; only take not thy rest in the street.
And the Philistines said, I have defied the host of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
And we shall take ten men out of every hundred, throughout all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand, a thousand out of ten thousand, to buy food for the people, that they may give to Gibeah of Benjamin the judgment of their shame in Israel.
But his lord said unto him, We will not go out of our way into a strange city, whose people are not of the children of Israel; but we will go into Gibeah.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah gave to Samuel in Shiloh the revelation of his word.
And this hope is like a strong girdle for our souls, set up and certain, and that which is within the veil;
and they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses commanded; and he brought out the land of the three children of Anak, and drove them out thence.
If I had authority over this people, I would put Abimelech out of the way, and said to Abimelech, Make thy host strong, and come out.
Now I will make known unto you, brethren, that I have made known the gospel of the gospel.
And it came to pass, that when Hanun travailed, she conceived a son; and she called his name Samuel: for she said, I prayed unto Jehovah for him.
And they made him a two-edged sword, and a cubit long, which he put on the right side under his robe.
And it came to pass at the morning, that the woman came, and he fell down at the door of the man's house, where her master was, and was spread there until it was light.
who were left delivered, to cast a stone at a razor without error.
Thou, Lord, didst put the earth upon the foundation thereof; And the heavens are the works of thy hands.
And she said unto him, Why sayest thou thou love, when thy heart is not mine? thrice thou hast mocked me, and hast not showed me the mystery of thy great strength.
saying, Our house is making a oblation in the city, and my brethren have commanded me to be there: now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go away and see my brethren. This is the king's table.
And Saul said unto the servant that was over his hand, Take out thy sword, and set it through me, before these men are uncircumcised men, and mock me. But his servant, being afraid, would not. Then Saul took out his sword, and fell upon it.
And again, when he sent his only Son into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God serve him.
And he cried out unto his servant, and said unto him, Take away thy sword, and destroy me, that they may not say unto me, His death was the work of a woman: therefore the young man put his sword through him, and slew him.
And Jehovah came and spake before, and Samuel, and Samuel. Then Samuel answered, saying, Thou shalt say, Jehovah; for thy servant's ears are open.
And if the man said unto him, First let the fat be burned, take as much as thou wilt: then the servant would say, No, thou wilt give me now, or I will take it by force.
that ye may not be slack in heart, but may receive unto them that God hath given their inheritance, because of their faith and their patience.
And Saul went to Gibeah to his house; and with him went the men of war, whose heart was touched by God.
But when Jesus had made one oblation for ever, he stood at the right hand of God;
And when Saul saw David going out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, I live, O king, I know not.
And she said, The glory is gone out of Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And they saw the Philistines the two of them. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have taken.
And Shema the son, and cried unto Jehovah, said, O Lord Jehovah, do me now remember me, and make me strong only this once, O God, that I may find thee one than the Philistines for mine eyes.
And David had taken the Jezreelitess of Jezreel to be his wife; these two were his wives.
Then the elders of the assembly said, What shall we do of women for the rest of them, seeing that the women of Benjamin are dead?
And every priest shall lay his place on the altar day by day, doing that which is necessary, and shall turn again again, and again the sacrifice which are not able to carry away sins.
And the battle prevailed for Saul, and the archers met him, and the archers wounded him.
And Noah said unto him, Arise now, now thou hast mocked me with falsehood: now say, How shouldest thou be bound? And he said unto her, If thou wilt bring the seven loops of my hair into the napkin, thou hast digged thee, and didst bind the nail, I will faint, and be like any other man.
Therefore he ought to be made like his brethren in every way, that he might be a high priest full of mercy, and keeping faith in all things to do with God, making offerings for the sins of the people.
For if the first covenant was as good as possible, there would not have remained a second.
And David's men said unto him, Now is the time when Jehovah saith unto thee, I will raise up thine enemy into thy hand to do with him whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then David arose, and took the skirt of Saul's coat in his hand, and cut off the end of it without his knowledge.
For in one place he saith of the seventh day, and God rested from all his works on the seventh day.
And David said to Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me, and hath said unto me, Tell all the business that I have sent thee, and I have commanded thee: and there was a certain place wherewith the young men are to go.
Wherefore I have sinned against you, but ye do wrong against me: Jehovah, who is judge of this day, judge ye between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And Naphtali took not the land of Beth-shemesh, or Bethshemesh, and drove them out; but he dwelt among the Canaanites in the land; nevertheless the people of Beth-shemesh and all Bithron were put to taskwork.
In a very little time he that cometh shall come, he shall not be slack.
But Joash said unto all that smote him, Wilt thou take up the cause of Baal? shall thou save him? let any man that is left his cause be put to death while it is still morning: if he be a god, let him take up his cause upon his altar.
And his father's father begat him three days; and they ate and drank, and took their rest there.
For they had with their weapons' houses, and with their engraving, and with their turbans, and with cornets, and with axes, and with axes, and with axes of iron.
And David delivered him into the hands of the guard of the guard, and went to his brethren, and came to his brethren, to know them.
And Saul and the men of Israel assembled themselves, and stood in the valley of Elah, and set their forces against the Philistines.
For there are they, of whom I have given you word before, and now with sorrow, who hate the cross of Christ;
Remember them that were over thee, and gavest thee the word of God; knowing the way of life, let thy faith be like theirs.
and we smote the south part of the land of the Cherethites, and on the land that is Judah's, and in the south of Caleb; and we put lad on the fire.
And she wept over him all the seven days of the feast of the feast; and the seventh day he answered, because she gave him no peace; and she told it to the children of her people.
for the counsel of the trial of Israel, to see whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had given to their fathers by the hand of Moses.
And ye have knowledge, that when I was manifested first, that when I departed from Macedonia, I have escaped no church, not received unto the saints, but ye only.
In like manner Christ took not himself the glory of being made the high priest, but was delivered by him that said, Thou art my Son, this day I have commanded thee:
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us shall give his daughter as wife to Benjamin.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him with power, and rent as he was, and plucked the lion in twain, and he slew him: but he did not kill his father and his mother.
For if the word which came through the angels was established, and in the course of many trespass against the commandments of God,
Now therefore consider what ye ought to do; for evil is in store for our master and all his house: for he is a unrighteous man that can not speak unto him.
But the men would not hearken unto him. So the man took his wife, and sent her out unto them; and they took her by force, and guided her night until the morning; and when the morning came, they let her go.
And it came to pass, while she was going down under the mountain upon her ass, that David and his men came down against her; and she fell suddenly to face with them.
And the Philistines came near every morning and evening forty days.
Let us then go forth unto him without the circle of the tents, And take his shame upon ourselves.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, fled, and were afraid.
And the man that travaileth with all his household went up to make the year's heave-offering to Jehovah, and to perform his oath.
And all that day Abimelech fought against the city; and he took it, and slew the people that were therein, and brake the city, and covered it with salt.
And the Philistines came near unto David; and the man that had his shield went before him.
And it came to pass, when David was returning after the Philistines, that Abner returned unto Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
I have all things and more than enough: I am replenished, having taken unto us the things which is called from thee, which is come from thee, a ointment of sweet savor, an offering acceptable unto God.
So they sent messengers into the city of Saul, and told the people: and all the people wept.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man? knowing that he hath come forth to put shame upon Israel: and if any man shall overcome him, the king will give that man much riches, and shall give him his daughter, and make his father's household free in Israel.
And as for them that at one time saw the light, and ate the good things from heaven, and having their part in the Holy Spirit,
And it came to pass, that the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he began to judge Israel, that he went out to war; and Jehovah delivered the Midianites king of Mesopotamia into his hand, and smote him.
Now therefore let it be given out unto the people, that whosoever is afraid of them, that is to depart from mount Gilgal. So twenty thousand of the people returned, but there were ten thousand.
And he brought them into his house, and killed the asses; and he washed their feet, and drank, and drank.
Then the princes went down to the gates; The people of the Lord went down among the mighty.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which seemeth right to thee, but not until thou hast taken him from the bosom; only the Lord will do as he hath said. So the woman waited there, and gave her son milk, until he was old enough of old.
So David and his men arose, and went, and slew two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their hand, and smote them to the king, that he might reign the king's son. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter Michal.
But Samuel was not pleased when they said unto him, Give us a king to be our judge. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and encamped in the valley.
And Micaiah said, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, seeing that the Levite is become my priest.
For Hanun's prayer was uttered from her heart, and she did not sound her lips: So it seemed to pass that she was drunken.
And it came to pass, as he spake unto them, that the city of the Philistines of Gath, whose name was called by name, came out of the Philistines' stairs, and spake the same words, in the hearing of David.
Be glad in the Lord at all times: Again I say, Be glad.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? and why dost thou eat no bread? why is thy heart troubled? am I not more with thee than ten sons?
Then the woman came, and said unto her husband, Behold, a man came to me, and his form was as the likeness of a god, and he feared him; neither did I ask him whence he came from, and he gave me not his name.
And Agag king of Amalek smote him captive, and smote all the people with the sword.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection from the dead, and part with him in his pains, being like him in his death.
Do all things without enchantment and arguments.
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did as it was right to him.
and to them that were at Hormah, and in marriage, and in Jarmuth,
If it pass through the land of Israel to Beth-shemesh, then great evil is his work; but if not, then we know that the evil was not his doing, but was the working of chance.
And he had a great priest over the house of God.
And Abigail went again to Nabal; and he was eating in his house like a king; and the heart of the spirit of the spirit of Nabal, because he had taken much wine; therefore she did not speak unto him till the morning came.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us go on unto one of these places, and stand for the night in Gibeah or Ramah.
Finally, my brethren, be glad in the Lord. Write the same things unto you not trouble me, and it is in safety.
And the Philistines were afraid, and said, God is come into their tents. And they said, Woe unto us! for never before hath such a thing found.
And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and went to Ramah, to the house of their house; and Elkanah smote his wife; and Jehovah kept her in mind.
So David, and the six hundred men that were with him, went over to Ahijah the son of Hammedatha king of Gath.
And after him repaired the son of Achbor, who smote him, and slew him six hundred Philistines with an staff; and he saved himself to Israel.
For when the people were numbered, not one man of the people of Jabeshgilead was present.
And Rahab the harlot, the harlot, was not slain with them that had committed the commandment of God, because she had brought into her house in peace those that sent to see the land.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and took away their cattle, and slew them with the sword with great destruction. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Then one of the servants answered and said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the revealer of Bethlehem, the cunning man, and a mighty man, and a man of war; and he is wise in his words, and behold, and Jehovah is with him.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, that my enemy should go and escape? And Michal answered Saul, He said unto me, Let me go, lest I kill thee.
And they said, Nay; we will take thee, and deliver thee into their hands, but we will not kill thee. And they took him two little cords round about, and carried him up from the rock.
And he hath waited thence from that time, until all that are against him shall have a footstool for his feet.
So the Midianites were broken in the presence of the children of Israel, and the Midianites returned not their strength: and the land had peace forty years in the days of the days.
Then he went in, and prepared a he-goat, and made an ephah of fine flour; and he put the flesh in a basket and the pottage thereof, and put it in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and gave it to him there.
And Jonathan the son of Saul, the son of Saul, said unto the young man that was with him, looking after his arms, and come, and let us go over to the camp, and there he spake nothing to his father.
And this he put into the pot, and all that came up upon the hook the priest took for himself. This they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
And he brought the offering unto Eglon king of Moab, who was a very fat man.
Now therefore, take heed to have no wine, nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing:
And he called for David, and said unto him, Jehovah liveth, thou art righteous, and all that thou hast wrought with me in the multitude have been pleasant unto me: I have seen no evil in thee from the day that thou camest unto me until now: but yet the lords is not pleased with thee.
And Saul sent for all the people to come to the battle, and went down to Kehelathah, to fight against David and his men.
And his base was at Ramah, where his house was; and there he judged Israel, and made there an altar unto Jehovah.
Behold, ye are all, O ye children of Israel: give now your counsel, what is to be done.
And when they had made an offering of an ox, they took the child to the child.
And she said, Thy servant have found favor in thine sight. And the woman went away, and took the feast, and her countenance was no more sad.
And thou shalt say unto my brother, Peace be well for thee: peace be unto thee, and thy house, and all that thou hast.
For those of us that believe come unto him; even as he hath said, As I sware when I was wroth, they can not come into my rest: Though the works were done from the time of the making of the world.
Beware that ye hear his voice which cometh unto thee. For, if they have heard the voice which came to them on the voice which came to them on earth, that we should not obey, what should we obey him whose voice cometh from heaven?
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house: and the son became the servant of Jehovah under the hand of Naaman the priest.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for his inheritance; but he could not make the people of the valley go out, for they had chariots of iron.
And now I know that thou shalt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be made strong under thy hand.
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee with power, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be changed unto another man.
Behold, I am, testify against me before Jehovah, and before the man that hath anointed the holy oil: whose ox or ass have I taken? to whom have I committed adultery? who hath been crushed by me? from whose hand have I taken a price for the blind of my eyes? I will give it all again.
And he said, In peace, I have come to offer an offering unto Jehovah: make yourselves clean, and come with me to offer the offering. And he made the atonement of Jesse and his sons clean, and sent for them to be present at the offering.
because his heart was with you, and he was greatly troubled, because ye heard that he was sick.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and sware, saying, Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
And the men of Israel and Judah arose, and cried out, and went after the Philistines as far as Gath, and the gates of Ekron; and the Philistines fell down by the way of Eway, from the way to Jahaz, and to Ekron, and to Ekron.
Then said all the trees unto the thorn, Thou comest and reign over us.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the travail, and his name was Shua; and his wife had never brought forth a child.
Wherefore they smote the seventy sons of Jerubbesheth, and of their blood, that they might bring upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and the city of Shechem, who gave him to help his brethren.
And when their fathers, or their brethren, come and afflict them, and say unto them, Give us unto us as an benefit; for we have not taken them as wives for ourselves in war; and if ye also have given them to us, ye would have been guilty of the broken oath.
So Libnah went over to the children of Ammon to fight upon them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
And Saul and his men went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other: and David's counsel was to depart as the fear of Saul; for Saul and his men fought against David and his men.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast forgiven thee the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath set thee out of thy stead king over Israel.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, and awaked, and awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go out, I will run away; but he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
Pray for us; for we know that our hearts are justified in all things.
who in the days of his flesh, having prayed and supplications with strong cry and weeping to him that was able to save him from death, had his prayer answered because of his fear of God.
But these men have been very good unto us; they sinned not, and we did not hurt us, while we were with them in the field:
and Micaiah, who was beside the side of the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse come to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And he shall take your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-trees, all the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
The bow of the mighty are broken, And the feeble are clothed with strength.
And he said, Now, when thy words are true, what shall be the shepherd of the child, and what shall be his work?
And Samuel said unto all the people, Do ye see the man of Jehovah, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king!
as they have done from the first, from the day that I brought them forth out of Egypt unto this day, and turned away from me, and serve other gods, so now they shall commit you the same way.
By faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, made ready a ark for the redemption of his own house, because God had told him that which was not in the time; and by him the world was judged by him, and he obtained his inheritance the righteousness which is by faith.
If he be able to have a fight with me, and overcome me, then we will be your servants: but if I be able to overcome him, then thou shalt be our servants, and do work for us.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy kindred, or among all my people, that thou shouldest go for thy wife unto the Philistines, that are uncircumcised? But Achan the son said unto his father, Bring her for me; for she is pleasant unto me.
