But this man, when he had offered one sacrifice for ever for ever, sat on the right hand of God;
If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? yet they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away; and David delivered his two wives.
But the lad knew not anything: but Jonathan and David knew the matter.
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in thee, that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And it came to pass, that the son of Joash had come back from battle before the sun.
and to them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David himself, and his men were in their stead.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in mine hand?
I thank my God upon all remembrance of you.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and told them in the ears of Jehovah.
And horsemen went out through the porch, and shut up the doors of the guard upon him, and shut them up.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do that which seemeth good unto thee. Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.
For a covenant is of power after men are dead; otherwise it is of no strength at all, while the city is living.
The mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarriest the wheels of his chariots?
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
Then were the hoofs of the field broken by the hand of the cliff, The portion of their mighty ones.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
Wherefore ye shall make the images of your wares, and the images of your plowshares that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he shall lighten his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
And now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers: now thy shepherds that were with us, we will not hurt them; neither was there any miss unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And it came to pass, when he returned to pass from Samuel, that God gave him another heart: and all that signs came to pass that day.
Wherefore he ought to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a gracious and faithful chief priest in the things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what ye have to do.
But now they desire a good land, that is, the heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel in his ears a day before Saul came, saying,
whose end is destroyed, whose God is their belly, And whose glory is in their shame, That are of the earth.
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wives, which they had saved of the women of Jabesh-gilead: but yet they did not suffice them.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Tarry not in the hold; depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Laish.
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye contend for Baal? will ye save him? he that will contend for him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself, because he hath cast down his altar.
And after him was Jotham the son of Achbor, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox to go, and he also delivered Israel.
And this I pray, that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
O Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, when thou sittest out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, the skies also cast water.
For verily he took not upon him the angels; but he took him the seed of Abraham.
For then he hath suffered many times from the foundation of the world: but now once he hath appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the second day of the month, that David's place was empty. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why cometh not the son of Jesse to flesh, neither yesterday, nor to-day?
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went forth both of them into the field.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
And they possessed all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and sheep.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth: and they fastened his body unto the wall of the tent of Bashan.
And they told to spy the son of Cushan, that they had come up unto mount Tabor.
And he will appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties; and he will set them to hear his land, and to reap his harvest, and to make his weapons of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, his brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah, in Shiloh, with an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do unto him as it seemeth good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily.
But the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet fruit, and my good fruit, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And when he had finished prophesied, he came to the high place.
And they sat down, and ate and drank both of them together: for the damsel's father said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together unto Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel: and when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
and delivered them that through fear of death were all their days under bondage.
And the woman hasted, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.
And they turned their goings, and came into the house of the young man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
For the law made nothing perfect, but the gift of a good hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And they passed, and went their way; and the sun went down upon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
And the priest said, The sword of the Philistines, whom thou smoowest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take that, take it; for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that, give it me.
So David and his men rose early to depart in the morning to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Then Saul drew near unto Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the seer is.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And one of the sons of Shelemiah the son of Ahitub, who was the name of Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
And now are thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? he hath fought against Israel, or fought against them.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and fire rose up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of Jehovah departed from his sight.
But if ye will not obey the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
Now David was the son of that Ephrath the son of Pekah Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.
And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, In this will I make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
And after he arose, Jair, a Gileadite, and he judged Israel and two years.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched with the trial of our infirmities; but was in all points that we are, but without sin.
And David arose, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And Saul looked behind him, and David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
And he had thirty sons sitting upon thirty ass, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth-jair, unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she loved the son well.
Then went down his brethren, and all the house of his father's house, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the sepulchre of his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will discover ourselves unto them.
And it came to pass by faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, sitting on the top of his staff.
And Sheva the son took hold of the midst of the pillars upon which the house stood, and upon which it was borne, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a Levite abiding on the side of mount Ephraim, who took unto him a concubine out of Bethlehem Judah.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem Judah, and I go to sojourn where I shall find a place.
Then said Saul unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod which was in my hand; and, behold, I must die.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel slew of the Gileadites that day twenty and five thousand and a hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And Saul cast a javelin upon him to smite him; whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined to slay David.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they escape not that refused him that spake upon the earth, much more shall we not escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven.
Moreover Jehovah will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons be with me; and Jehovah shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a forest.
And it came to pass at that time, when he was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to be dim, that he could not see;
So Jesus therefore, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanites that dwelt in Zerah, and utterly destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: the same was the first altar which he built unto Jehovah.
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Jonathan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And Zeresh the Edomite, who was set over the servants of Saul, said, I saw the son of Jesse come to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah: come down, and bring it up unto you.
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
And the strength of Israel shall not lie, nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
Howbeit we will not give them wives of our daughters; for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called the place of the place Esek.
For if that the first covenant was without spot, then should no place be sought for the second.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and changed of garments unto them that breathed the dark; and his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
And they indeed were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he drove out the inhabitants of the mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your troubles and your afflictions; and ye have said unto him, No, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
Then Harbonah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye are seventy years of Ephraim among Ephraim, and among the Manassites.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
and took a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he told him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.
And it came to pass, after they had borne it, that the hand of the Lord was against the city with a great destruction: and he smote the men of the city, both small and great; and they had the mortar in their treasuries.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded unto you.
and behold, if it go up by the way of his border to Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance that came to us.
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is not it because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and made merry, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drank, and cursed Abimelech.
And Michal Saul's daughter loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And he made him that abideth over the nobles among the people: Jehovah made me rule over the mighty.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest wrath run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with the living of thy house.
and did eat the good word of God, and the powers of the world;
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins; and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drank any water, three days and three nights.
What then? but, every way, or in truth, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I will in it rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
For if he were on the earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there are the priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and lay down unto him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests' charge, that I may eat a piece of bread.
Then said David, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me, and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
But, beloved, we are persuaded good things of you, and things that are with salvation, though we thus speak.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the soothsayers, saying, What shall we do to the ark of Jehovah? tell us how we shall send it to his place.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards out of the land: wherefore then lay thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
But Hanun would not go up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the people and the princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work and labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have served the saints, and serve.
They fought from heaven; The stars in their course fought against talking.
And they sent and gathered all the nobles of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about there.
And his lord said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.
Wherefore now return, and go in peace, lest thou displease the lords of the Philistines.
Then there was there a altar to build an altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-bah: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the chief mite.
And Jonathan cried out after the lad, saying, haste, stay not. And Jonathan's servant gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
For we are partakers of Christ, if we keep the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end;
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, bread of bread unto the people that follow me: for they are faint, and I will follow after Zebah and as Zalmunna kings of Midian.
For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because ye heard that he had been sick.
And he sent, and brought him in. And he was white and well favoured, and goodly to look. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him: for this is he.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel answered, saying, Thy servant heareth.
which hope we have as a stock of the soul, both sure and faithful, and that entereth into that within the veil;
and again I will put my trust in him; and again I and the children whom God hath given me.
So Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a pomegranate that is in Migron; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;
And ye have forgotten the exhortation that speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou rebuke him:
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Beor, wherewith Abimelech hired vanity and light, which followed him.
Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray you, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I have tasted a little of this honey.
and the sons of his body was born, and the children of his body was born: for he had many wives.
but exhort one another day, while it is called unto day, lest any one be hardened through the deceit of sin.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Oholah the son, that he may make us sport. And they called for Shema the son out of the prison-house; and he made them sport: and they set him between the pillars.
And Gaiah the son of Birzaith said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? and Shebna his chamberlain? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: why should we serve him?
count not thy handmaid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the abundance of my complaint and sorrow have I spoken hitherto.
Then went the son, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a young lion hath roared against him.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I will also go with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
Wherefore hast thou not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly upon the spoil, and did evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Let not the Lord our God cry for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they took two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb upon the rock of Oreb; and as as as as as as they were as they had slain in the winepress, they pursued with Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and as far as the other side of the Jordan.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my wine, which doth commit God and man, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way: and, behold, his concubine fell down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee: deliver us only this day.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak to her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses: and she brought him into her father's house: and when the damsel's father saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart was greatly afraid.
and these ten traded unto the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them: for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: and are ye still? be not slack to go, and to enter to possess the land.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot. And Saul and Jonathan were taken, but the people escaped.
Jozabad, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount to Arabah, to the entrance of Hamath.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with the clay, even Ashdod and the borders thereof.
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
Thus God rendered unto the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, in smiting his seventy brethren.
And after him, he was Abdon the son of Hakkatan, a Pirathonite, the judges of Israel.
And they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the chariot before them.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion which I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
And there fell of Benjamin, eighteen thousand men: all these were men of valor.
Now the Philistines gathered all their armies unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped by a well that is in Jezreel.
And when David heard that the spirit was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath taken away my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him to wife.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgins, that knew no man by lying with any male: and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And it came to pass afterward, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
And after Abimelech there arose to defend Israel, of Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in array in mount Ephraim.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tasklabor, and did not utterly drive them out.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, unto his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah;
And Sheva the son said unto her, If they bind me with seven green things that were not dry, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
which was a figure for the time, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience;
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
Pardon, I pray thee, the trespass of thy handmaid: for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house; for my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
But if I say unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
Ask thy young men, and they will show thee; wherefore let the young men find grace in thine eyes: for we come in a good day: give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
And he made us a high priest, and made a high priest for the ordinance of Melchizedek.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, When Melchizedek met him.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
For the carcase of the beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, shall be burnt without the camp.
And the woman came in the dawning of the day, and fell at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
Yet there is straw and provender for our asses; and there is bread and wine for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man that is with thy servants: there is no lack of anything.
In faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
And the land was forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
Thou hast no delight in the land of Jehovah.
And David came to the two hundred men, which were so sick that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to dwell in the valley, or to go out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and David came near unto the people, and he saluted them.
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for men abhorred the offering of Jehovah.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
But David pursued, he and four hundred men; two hundred lived behind, that were so weary that they could not pass over the valley of Tobiah.
For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took the destruction of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and a strong substance.
And because he hath not made a oath, he made a oath unto him:
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is your way in which ye go.
I am bold to the mark for the perfecting of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
Neither that he should offer himself many times, as the high priest cometh into the holy place every year with blood of others;
Being so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.
And she said, Let thy servant find favour in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, when they were at Haran.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were therein, how they dwelt sore, after the manner of the Zidonians, quiet and quiet; and there was no ruler in the land, that might put them to shame in anything; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with any man.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah hath left, to try Israel by them, even as many of Israel, as they knew not all the wars of Canaan;
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Avenge David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now be the king's son in law.
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city; and thither fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it unto them, and gat them up to the top of the tower.
Finally, brethren, what things are true, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are beloved, whatsoever things is good; if there be any power, and any praise, think on these things.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
by faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a foreign country, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise:
And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay in the valley as grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the thorn, and taught the men of Succoth.
And Ezekiel vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou shalt not fail the children of Ammon into mine hands,
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when the time was come about after Hanun, that she conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And he said, His seed, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Abdon the son of Achbor, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.
For when God promised unto Abraham, because he sware by no greater oath, he sware by himself,
And Ezekiel sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?
And another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and another company turned to the way of the border that looketh to the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
looking unto Jesus the son of Jesus, and to the end of our faith; who for the joy which was set before him endured the cross, despised the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: but the name of the city was his name.
And Jehovah called yet again, and Samuel. And Samuel arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called, my son; lie down again.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long save the king.
And Abimelech answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
And over it the likeness of the glory of the glory of the perfumer, whereof we can not now speak one of them.
For he of whom these are said unto another tribe, whereof no man spake at the altar.
And David prospered in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And Eber the Kenites, which was of the children of Hobab, the father of Moses, had separated himself from the Kenite, and pitched his tent unto the valley of Zimri, which is by Kedesh.
For by it the elders received a good report.
and let us reckon one another, to provoke to love and to good works:
So Saul called all the people together to go down to the battle of Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, David my son? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man fail for him: thy servant shall go and fight with this Philistines.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with three bullocks, and one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was young.
And he went unto his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, being threescore and ten persons, upon one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbesheth was left; for he hid himself.
And she blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt that is lent to Jehovah. And they went unto their own house.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand; and they slew of them ten thousand men.
And it came to pass, as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and served the Baalim.
And the house of Joseph sent to Hamath-Beth-el; now the name of the city before was Luz.
And it came to pass, as soon as it was about that was dead, that the children of Israel returned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made Baal the Baal their god.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me; but his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in strongholds, and dwelt in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the travail, whose name was called ah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
For the word of God is swift and strong, and more than any two two-edged sword, stripes even to the distributer of soul, and of the spirit, and of the fields, and of the marrow, and of the wisdom of the heart.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne by the side of the gate, and brake his neck, and died; for he was an old man, and heavy; and he had judged Israel forty years.
The inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased to cease in Israel, until that I arose to soon, that I arose a mother in Israel.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, he said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
And the children of Israel returned from after the Philistines, and plundered their tents.
Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here stricken the fourth part of a shekel of silver; that will I give unto the man of God, to tell us our way.
Even so Christ also glorified himself to be made a high priest: but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to-day have I begotten thee.
God, who was at the dry times, and in divers seasons spake aforetime unto the fathers by the prophets,
Salute all them that have authority over you, and all the saints: they of Italy salute you.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants together with the woman, and he spake unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
that by two times table, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong comfort, who fled for refuge to lay hold on hope before us:
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent out, and took thirty daughters from off unto his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
And there was a judge of Israel for Israel six years. And afterward died the Gileadite, and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to thy neighbor: is not her younger sister more than she? take her, I pray thee, for her.
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I am a Nazirite unto God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength shall go from me, and I shall be weak, and be like any other man.
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king at the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand: but surely we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two rough cords, and brought him up from the rock.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the gathering that was with it, wherein the gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
So David fled, and departed, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Timnah.
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ unto glory and praise of God.
And the children of Dan sent out of their families five men from their borders, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Haran, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, search the land: and when they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, they lodged there.
Then did Abigail hastened, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready arrayed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them upon asses.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field, and she alighted from her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me:
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father straitly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any bread this day. And the people were faint.
Having the same strife which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
And Amaziah took new cords, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, O son: and there were sitting in wait in the chamber, and he brake them from off his arms like a thread.
And the whole congregation sent some to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peaceably unto them.
And he sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against the Midianites, and take the waters before them to Beth-Midian and Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters to Beth-Midian and Jordan.
And her adversary provoked her sore, to make her displeased; for Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the lords of the Philistines passed by hundreds, and by thousands: but David and his men passed over against the watch with hooks.
and thou shalt hear what they say; and afterward shall thy hands be strong to go down unto the host. Then went he down with his servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in the host.
And Jair died, and was buried in Mahanaim.
And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people: the garrison, and the destroyers, they also trembled, and the earth trembled; so it was a very great trembling.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
For there is verily a murmuring of the commandment, which went before for the weakness and in vain.
And he went thither unto Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and went on, and prophesied, until he came to Ramoth-gilead.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Beth-lehem, and was there four months.
I will shoot three arrows upon the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being loosed unto his death.
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were about seven days.
holding the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I should not run in vain, nor labour in vain.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is sanctified bread: if the young men have kept themselves at the least of women.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the Philistines's hand may be against him. Wherefore Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in one of the two.
If they say thus unto us, Abide until we come unto thee; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
Having therefore, brethren, without boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and prospered: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was pleased in the sight of all the people, and also before the eyes of Saul's servants.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David, The king desireth no dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
Then said he, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
And he shall take the tithe of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.
Then said Abishai unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day. Now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even to the earth once, and I will not smite him the second time.
If they shall fall away, to restore them again unto repentance; seeing they crucified the Son of God ashamed, and put him to shame.
And Micaiah said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed down with all his might; and the house fell upon the nobles, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew in his death were more than they that he slew in his life.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and my crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid, as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a deliverer unto the children of Israel, that delivered them; and Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
And Saul went home into Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose heart God had touched.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: Ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain by man.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? and after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a moth!
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said that thy house and thy father's house should walk before me for ever: but now the Lord saith, Be it far from me; for they that honour me will I honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt look upon the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thine handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and corrupt themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their own doings.
The Lord render unto every man his righteousness and his truth; for Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to day; but I would not stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And when he had, he gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the chief of the nations unto the river of Kishon.
And he took thereof in his hand, and went to eat, and came to his father and mother, and gave them, and they ate: but he told them not that he had taken the honey out of the dead of the lion.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And David departed from thence, and went into the den of Adullam: and when his brethren, and all his father's house's house, they went down thither unto him.
Of how much thought, think ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden the Son of God under foot, and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an common thing, and hath committed shame unto the Spirit of grace?
But Caleb's son's wife was given unto him, whom he had conceived.
And these are all, having obtained a good report by faith, received not the promise:
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation in your prayer, and the solace of the Spirit of Jesus Christ:
And Jehovah said unto them, The people are yet too many; bring them down to the water, and I will prove them for thee there: and it shall be, of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, that shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, that shall not go with thee.
By so much was Jesus made a good covenant.
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.
And it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended up in the flame of the altar; and a man and his wife looked thereon, and fell upon their faces to the ground.
And it came to pass, that I would ask you, that I would ask you, that ye should give me every man the rings of his prey: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmeelites.
Go, I pray you, prepare, and know, and see his place where his foundation is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very treacherously.
And it came to pass, when David had ended speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man into his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
If ye then have dealt faithfully and truth with rebellion and his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you.
And Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, that is with the sheep.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance is mine, I will recompense, saith the Lord: and again the Lord will judge his people.
Let us therefore fear, lest, not, being left us from entering into his rest, any of you should think of you.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from thee, about which thou didst set, and spake also in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Bethhage.
And Ephraim drove not out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
The one that preach the Christ of strife, not right, that thought to add evil to my bonds:
And it came to pass, as she prayed before Jehovah, that she called her mouth.
And it came to pass, when the Jews arose early on the morrow, that, behold, reed fell upon his face unto the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, as the feast of a king; and the heart of the spirit was merry within him, because he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
And Jonathan stripped the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
I will not again drive out from among them of the nations which Joshua left when he died;
And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt-offering unto me, and peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law: and the days died not.
And he went from thence unto the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before was Kiriath-sepher.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
So they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of the Maon, in the Arabah, on the south of the wilderness.
And when he saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once; for he hath showed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they inquired and asked, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
And when they told Amaziah, he went and stood in the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And the Spirit of the spirit answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there is many servants now a days that destroyest every man from his master.
but to do good and to be drunken not; for God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor a stumblingblock of heart unto my lord, whether thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself; but when Jehovah will have dealt well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And Naaman perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
And as he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for the ordinance of Melchizedek.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things that should be utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart: for what great things he hath done for you.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels; Thou crowedst him with glory and honor, And didst set him over the works of thy hands.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot unto God, cleansing thy conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And Jonathan answered Saul, and David besought me earnestly to go to Beth-lehem.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us three days' rest, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel: and if there be no man to save us, we will come out unto thee.
Thou hast put all things under his feet: for in that he put all under subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him: but now we see not yet all things put under him.
For Christ entered not into the holy places made with hands, which are the sect of the true: but into heaven itself, now to appear before God for us:
And it came to pass, when she urged him daily with her words, and urged him, so that his soul was grieved unto death.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of barley grain, and these ten loaves, and run into the camp of thy brethren.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Therefore we turn again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And by faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departed of the children of Israel, and commanded concerning his bones.
who shall change our vile body, that it may be conformed to his glory, according to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
And Abel came to Mizpah unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
And as it is appointed unto men to die, but after this is the judgment:
And David was the youngest: and the three elder followed Saul.
And Jehu arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that told the woman? And he said, I am.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay down in the midst of the cliff, and his spear clave in the ground at his stead: but Abner and the people lay round about him.
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of the very truth women have been kept off from us three days, seeing I came forth, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a form; yea, though it were sanctified this day in the ephah.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not tarry in my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehem Judah of the house of Judah, who was a Levite, and sojourned there.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise unto God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their armies together for war, to fight with Israel. And Abimelech said unto David, Know thou certainly assuredly that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.
not turning aside the gathering of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhort one another; and so much more, as ye see the day.
And the children of Ephraim took the side of the Jordan before Ephraim: and it was so, that when the children of Ephraim that were escaped said, Let me pass over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou a sting? If he said, No.
And there went thence from thence, of the family of the Danites, out of Zorah, and out of Malchiah, six hundred men appointed with weapons of war.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp: and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.
For if we sin how we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins:
And when these things were fulfilled, the priests went continually into the first tent, to fulfil the service of God.
And the meal-offering took up the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, that which is left, set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee since I said, I have called the people. So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing.
And the king said unto Bidkar, Turn, and fall upon the priests. And Araunah the Edomite turned, and fell upon the priests, and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that had put on a linen ephod.
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, which are at Philippi, with the officers and officers:
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What mean the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? and they perceived that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and said, He is sick.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And when Saul heard that David was revealed, and the men that were with him, ( now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood about him);
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the king's wrath: for he endureth, as seeing him that escapeth.
For this man was accounted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he that built the house more honor than the house.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn into his house.
Shall I take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have slain for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not whence they be?
For where a covenant is, there must be of necessity the death of the covenants.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty men with him.
And it was so from that day, that he made it a statute and an ordinance unto Israel unto this day.
And it came to pass the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law, a Pharisee;
The Lord therefore judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee; but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
And it came to pass on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side; but he told not his father.
Ye are not yet rebellious unto blood, fighting against sin.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Enaim of the daughters of the Philistines: now now fetch her for me to wife.
And fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, let this iniquity be upon me, and let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And his mother made him a little coat, and brought it unto him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the burnt-offering.
And he stripped off his clothes, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the messenger answered, and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there is also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, even their burnt-offerings, and Phinehas died, and the ark of God is taken.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
wherein shall we be sanctified through the body of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
But Meonothai pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto the poorest of the nations; and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
And they said, There shall be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But none answered. And the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and gat him to his place.
But Saul and the people spared oppression, and the sheep of the flock, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and of the lambs, and of all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them: but every thing that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore come ye up against us? And they said, We have come up, saying, We have come up unto us, that we may do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
Now there were men lying in wait, while they tarried with her in the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, O son: and he brake the more away, as a thread of tow was broken when it toucheth the fire: so his strength was not known.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
Not that I speak in want: for I have learned, in all that I am, it shall be content.
But what things were gain unto me, even as I was accounted loss for Christ.
And what shall I say? for the time would fail me to speak on, and of Cuthah, and of Tekoa, and of Japhlet; of David also, and Samuel, and Samuel, and the prophets.
Therefore I have sworn unto the house of Ish-bosheth, that the iniquity of the house of Ish-bosheth shall not be cleansed with sacrifice nor oblation for ever.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, that the earth was abated again.
They were stoned, they were broken, they were put to death, they were slain with the sword: they wandered about in sheep, and in the field; being destitute, and afflicted,
But Sihon spared not Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And, behold, when they were running with talking, behold, came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, to Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.
And the congregation sent out twelve thousand men of blood, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.
So Saul took him away from him, and made him his captain over a thousand: and he went out, and came in before the people.
But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: A sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
For I will be merciful unto their iniquity, And their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And Jiphthah the Gileadite, a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead begat thah.
And he turned from him to another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.
And Saul's brother said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee.
and be found in him, not having mine righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is by the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith.
In the days of Shaphat, the son of Achbor, in the days of Jehiel, the highways were forgotten, and the wayfaring men that were walking in the way.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, that he did for Israel.
Now faith is the riches of things hoped for, the witness of things which are not seen.
For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake.
And David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, Arise, and go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
And the men of Israel said to their heart, Proclaim thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass, that they that were left were scattered, that two of them were not left together.
Is it not wheat to day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may understand and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking you a king.
And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: and as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him trembling.
For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not yet speak of another day.
Have I not mad men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the mad in my presence? shall this man enter into my house?
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they made him drink water.
And the child Samuel waxed on, and was in favor both with the Lord, and also with men.
This thing is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the anointed of Jehovah. And now, behold, where the king's spear is, and the water that was at his separation, is not good.
For every house is builded by some man; but he that builded all things is God.
Yea, if I offer upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with you all.
that we may be like all nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father? therefore it was a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see that is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
Moses by faith, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw that he was a child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
But now thy kingdom abideth not: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath commanded him to be captain over his people; because thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
And the spies saw a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us now the entering into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And he said unto her, What form is he? And she said, A old man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And there went out from the camp of the Philistines, a name called Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And when he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the presentation were shut up, they said, Surely he hath covered his feet in his summer chamber.
And he judged Israel and three years old, and died; and he was buried in Horhamite.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the appearance of an angel of God, exceeding terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he his name.
And the men of Gibeah rose up against me, and smote the house round about me by night, and thought to slay me: and my concubine have they forced, that she was dead.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And David fled from Ramah in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And David said to Ahijah, Surely thou knowest what thy servant can do. And Abimelech said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah; and Elkanah knew Hanun his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And David went from thence to Mizpah of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
As for the proverb of the elders, Salvation cometh from the wicked; But my hand shall not be upon thee.
Then said Micaiah, Now know I that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite unto my priest.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; let all thy desire lie upon me; only stay not in the street.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent him, as he had torn a kid, and he had nothing in his hand: but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come, and reign over us.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all green men, and all men of valor; and there escaped not a man.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them, by whom it is arrayed, receiveth blessing from God.
And having confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your perfecting and joy of faith;
And having a high priest over the house of God.
But call to remembrance the former days, in which ye were enlightened, ye bare a great fight of affliction.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, Zadok's son, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought there the ephod unto David.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bear not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of Iphtah-el, because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now now restore those countries again.
Now that ye are full of full estate, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly was added with me as of giving and receiving, but ye only.
And an angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Sela, and said, I made thee to go up out of Egypt, and bring thee unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will not break my covenant with you.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field, and they told Abimelech.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he said, Because this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
And that the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were a half of Mamre's land, which the yoke of oxen might plow.
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcrafts, and the perverseness is as iniquity and idols: because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul became David's enemy continually.
Therefore rained there also of one, and him as it were dead, so many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the shore by the shore.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that cry to the king?
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And he smote them from Aroer, even until thou come to balm, even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And Jehovah visited Hanun, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child of Samuel grew forth before Jehovah.
And they took the women captive that were therein; they slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye found not aught in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me now pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken to it. And in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab; but he would not consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus is Micaiah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
And unto Jesus the new covenant, and to the blood of the sprinkling, that speaketh better things than to Abel.
and they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses had said, and divided thence the three sons of Anak.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to reproach Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man that smiteth him, the king will increase him with great riches, and shall give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
By faith Abraham, when he was called to go forth into a place which he should receive for an inheritance, hearkened; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
of whom the world was not worthy; they wandered in the deserts, and in the mountains, and in dens, and in the caves of the earth.
And by faith Moses, when he was come unto years, and refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
And the children of Israel did evil again before Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of the Syrians, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook Jehovah, and did not serve him.
For both he that sanctifieth and sanctified are all of one: for he is not ashamed to call them brethren.
And the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast begotten a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
And the lords of the Philistines brought up unto her seven green treasures that were not dried; and she bound him with them.
Are they not all ministration, sent forth to minister for them that shall be heirs of salvation?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be so minded: and if ye be otherwise minded, God will reveal even this unto you.
( Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah.) Then said the children of Israel, Tell us, how this wickedness?
Let us draw near with a true heart in full confidence of faith; having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies wash with pure water.
And it came to pass, that, after the likeness of Melchizedek, there arose another priest,
And Micaiah hallowed the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the den which are in the mountains, and in the caves, and in strongholds.
concerning jealousy, persecuted the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law,
And he said unto him, Far be it: thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall do nothing either great or small, but that he will show it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
And when he shewed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his family.
And they turned aside thither to go in and lodge in Gibeah: and when he went in, he sat him down in the street of the city: for there was no man that took them into his house to lodge.
And the rod of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him.
Then answered all the wicked men and men of Belial, of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and go.
Be careful for nothing; but in everything of prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known unto God.
Then said Samuel, Bring me hither to me the king of Amalek. And Agag came unto him. And Hadad said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
And in this place again, if they shall enter into my rest.
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
All the saints salute you, specially they that are of Caesar's household.
For here we have no city, but we seek one to come.
And it came to pass, when he had come to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, were weary, yet pursued them.
And her wise virgins answered her: Yea, she returned unto her,
And God hearkened unto the voice of man: and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but she herself was not with her husband.
And God hath given into thy hands the princes of Midian Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of thee? Then their anger was moved toward him, when he had said.
And the daughters of Israel went every year to mourn the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in a year.
to the chief assembly and the assembly of the first-born, which are written in heaven, and unto God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous,
Thy servant killed both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised is the Philistines as one of them, seeing he hath reproached the hosts of the living God.
If ye endure correction, God will deal with you as with children; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
neither by the blood of goats and oxen, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
And he had a crown of brass upon his legs, and a breastplate of brass between his shoulders.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five goodly stones out of the brook, and put them in the sack's sack which he had, in a sack; and his horses was in his hand: and he drew near unto the Philistines.
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people sure, and to a great land; for God hath given it into your hand; a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth.
And there came an angel of the Lord, and sat under an oak that was in Ophrah, that pertained to Joash the Archite, and his son with threshing the wheat of wheat, to hide it from Midian.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand that is on the sea-shore. And they came up, and encamped at Michmash, eastward from Beth-aven.
For men indeed swear by the greater, and a oath to confirm is to them an end of all strife.
Thus the Lord do so and much more to Jonathan: but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But we are not of them that draw back to destruction; but of them that believe unto the saving life of the soul.
And Harbonah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Caleb: and there were gathered in vain men to Jahaz, and went out with him.
And they found it, namely, that they might make a attack on him; and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
But God clave a hollow place that was in the jaws, and there came water in it; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof to be hewn down, which is in a troop unto this day.
And David knew that Saul secretly did wrong against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod hither.
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, whether it is better for you, that all the children of Jerubbesheth, which are threescore and ten persons, king over you, or that one kingdom over you? remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And they called the name of that place: and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
Let the brotherly love continue.
And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these; for I have not proved them. And David smote him.
and he said, O Lord, the God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be a tribe of Israel in Israel?
Brethren, I do not count myself to have taken: but this one thing I do, that forget the things that are behind, and that goeth out to those things which are before;
Gilead dwelt beyond the Jordan: wherefore did Dan abide in the ships? Asher continued on the sea-shore, and dwelt in his breaches.
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, priest of the Most High, who met Abraham, returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
Seeing that we have a great high priest, that is passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall ye also and the king that reigneth over you remain after Jehovah your God.
Behold, I will put a wool of wool in the threshing-floor; and if the dew be upon the fleece thereof, and it be dry upon all the earth apart, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
And they came to pass, and the men that were with him, and the hundred men that were with him, came unto the camp at the first of the midst of the midst of the camp; and they had but a new song, and blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels that were in their hands.
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of the things which were to be spoken after.
And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you? is not the gleanings of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
But the men would not hearken unto him: so the man took his concubine, and brought her out unto them; and they knew her, and laid her all night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her go.
And Gilead's wife bare him sons; and his wife's sons waxed up, and they thrust out Baal, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a foreign woman.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: and they set on fire all the cities that they came to.
Let us hold fast the confession of our faith without wavering; for he is faithful that hath spoken;
And between the passages, that Jonathan had sought to go over unto the Philistines' garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my tokens, I and my companions.
And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal in the name of David's name, and ceased.
And he said unto the angel of the Lord, I beseech thee, let us hinder thee, until we shall have prepared a kid for thee.
And after Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, both men and women, young and young men, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And the Sidonians, and the Amalekites, and the Meunim, did afflict you; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen that Jehovah had delivered thee unto day into my hand in the cave; and some bid me slay thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by going into a city that hath gates and bars.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath delivered us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.
And Ezekiel said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands.
And Jehovah discomfited, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before the face of a sword; so that he, when he did not, he cast down his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
And David heard in the wilderness that the Nabal of Nabal his sheep.
It repented me that I have set up Saul to be king: for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And thy asses, which were lost three days ago, did not set thy heart upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And Samuel lay till the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show the Archite.
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went into his house.
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: ye make Jehovah's people to transgress.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly woman; and there was not a master among the children of Israel than he; from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
The mountains melted from before Jehovah, even that Sinai from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And when he had patience, he received the promise.
And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Where goest thou? and whence comest thou?
And she fastened it with the nail, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, O son: and he awaked out of his sleep, and went away with the nail of the wood, and with the veil.
By faith he kept the passover, and the blood of blood, lest he that destroyed the first-born should touch them.
And roughly said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go: but if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go.
And Abimelech gat him up to Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him: and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a branch from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done.
And again, when he brought in the first begotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
Nevertheless Jehovah raised up judges, who delivered them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: but if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
For for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not reckoning his life, to refresh your lack toward me.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, that Jehovah raised them up a saviour, and horsemen the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a man left divination; and the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon king of Moab.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Why weepest thou? and why eat thou not? And why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
To whom Abraham also gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation king of righteousness, and after that also king of Salem, which is, king of peace;
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And Abimelech answered, Whither have ye made a way to day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the ascent, and against the south of the Kenite.
And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David exacted him from before him.
And she wept before him seven days, while they were their feast: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
And Abimelech reigned three years over Israel.
Let our lord now command thy servants, which are before thee, to seek out a man, that is a skilful thing upon a harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And Abimelech ran, and the company that was with him, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city: and the two other courses ran upon all the people that were in the field, and slew them.
Did I begin to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute any thing to his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
And the issue went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, so that he could not draw his hand out of his belly; and the earth came out.
The reproach of Christ is great riches than the treasures in Egypt: for he hath respect unto the recompense of the reward.
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And the name of Saul's wife was AchAhinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity a change of the law.
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat the service of the tabernacle.
Wherefore we receive a kingdom, that can not be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God with fear and godly fear:
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and beat, and called the name of it, saying, Hitherto Jehovah hath helped us.
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee.
Beware of the dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the truth.
and to them that were at Hormah, and to them that were in Jekabzeel, and to them that were in Ziklag,
And it came to pass, that Joash the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah to Ophrah of the eighteenth.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they rose up early in the morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Comfort thy heart with a piece of bread, and afterward go your way.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floor.
And Deborah was a prophetess, a wife of Laish; she judged Israel at that time.
And when the words were heard which David spake, they told them before Saul: and he sent for him.
So he brought down the people unto the water; and Jehovah said to the plague, Every one that smiteth the water with his tongue, as a dog, he shall thou set by himself; likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.
Therefore, leaving the spirits of the teaching of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God;
And he said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
who stood only in dinner and drinking, and divers things with sorceries and ordinances, laid upon them until the time of repentance.
but my God shall take all your need according to his riches in glory through Christ Jesus.
but he made him no name, and laid upon him the likeness of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And the kings came and fought, and fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no profit of money.
And Hamor the son of Jarah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem: and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
Now therefore, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: if Jehovah have stirred thee up against me, let him accept a offering: but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah: for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went out to war; and Jehovah delivered the Midianites, and smote the king of Mesopotamia, into his hand; and his hand prevailed against him,
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Ahijah.
And it was so feared, that Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid and trembling:
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And before the light of God went out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a southern land: give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine also was with him.
So the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the showbread, that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
See ye not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others.
But Christ as a son over his own house, whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of hope unto the end.
And they went through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but came not in the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And God sent a evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech.
And the men of Israel and Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron: and the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron, and to Ekron.
And this people would this people were under my hand; then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Take thee thy army, and come out.
Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, which went up with them into the camp round about, even they also went to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
Only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing;
And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
Now therefore know, and consider what thou wilt: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household: for he is such a son of Belial, that a man can not speak unto him.
And he shall take the tithe of your flock, and ye shall be his servants.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my family, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou to me?
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city trembled at his coming, and said,
Thus was the Midianites subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more. And the land was in quietness forty years in the days of feasting.
And it said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And he found a new jaws of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.
And the Philistines drew near the morning and the evening, and offered himself forty days.
For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath kept me back from evil to hurt thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there was not left the Carmelite by the morning, the light of the morning.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, because of the Midianites,
Now in Carchemish and Zalmunna were in Carchemish, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the host of the children of the east; for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
But almost all things by law cleanse with blood; and without shed blood is no remission.
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Zoar: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are at Ramah.
And they passed thence unto mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide any thing from me of all things that he spake unto thee.
and to them that were in Sepharad, and to them that were in the cities of the hired elite, and to them that were in the country of the Kenites,
And Judah took Gaza with its border, and Ashkelon with its border, and Ekron with the border thereof.
But I trust in the Lord that I also will shortly come.
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the ambush where he hideth himself, and come ye again unto me with the truth, and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.
And he said unto him, We are going from Bethlehem of Judah toward the side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehem Judah; but I am now going into the house of Jehovah; and there is none that receiveth me to house.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, year in a place that is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and toward the south of Jokneam.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein: and they to whom it was first preached not in because of unbelief.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
Nevertheless the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
Wherefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest we should let them slip.
And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
Saul reigned one year; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good, tarry until thou hast weaned him; only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman abode, and gave her son to suck until she had weaned him.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hear thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed the land of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall cast down their altars; but ye have not obeyed my voice: wherefore have ye done this?
And the man said unto certain, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled unto day out of the host. And he said, What is there done, my son?
But a certain terrible seeketh for judgment and fierce wrath, which shall devour the adversaries.
Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee: and when ye arise early in the morning, and be light, then depart.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why speakest thou thus after my name, seeing it is hidden?
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them; but the child drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a child.
And Sheva the son went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath borne childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel rent them in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
For every one that useth milk is brutish in the word of righteousness; for he is a child.
And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him unto me in the bed, that I may kill him.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And when they were come into the land of Zuph, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father fail for the asses, and take thought for us.
And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what seemeth him good.
that ye can not plow, but be imitators of them that through faith and patience inherit the promises.
And the king sat on his throne, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
And his sons did not walk in his ways, but turned aside to gain, and took gifts, and perverted judgment.
that Jehovah called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I.
And it came to pass, when he knew that he was an angel of the Lord, saying, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for I have seen a angel of the Lord face upon me.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out with one consent.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his eyes.
And it came to pass, that year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel, even eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
And it came to pass within a long time, in the time of wheat harvest, that Shema the son visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in unto my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And she sent, and called, and called the son of Tabeel the son of Jerubbesheth, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
Now therefore take heed now, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk by the way.
And these were all dead in faith, having not received the promises: but when they saw them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
So now, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it?
And Saul was very wroth, and the saying was displeased him; and he said, They have showed David ten thousands; and they have appointed me thousands: and what can he have more than the kingdom?
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
And these are the gold of gold which the Philistines returned for a trespass offering unto Jehovah; for Ashdod, for Gaza, for Ashkelon, for Gath, for Ekron,
Now Elisabeth was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
always in all prayer for you all praying with joy;
And I will draw unto thee unto the river of Jeshurun, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And the man of Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
But one of the young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he blasphemed them.
For the same cause ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be the king in law unto the king?
Now no correction for the present is made a joy, but grievous: but afterward it shall yield the good fruit of righteousness unto them that are practised thereby.
And Jehovah hath done unto him, as he spake by me: for Jehovah hath torn the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, even unto David.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that they offer themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart; and put the gold jewels, which ye return unto him for a trespass offering, in a exile by the side thereof, and send it away, that it may go.
Consume the violence of the fire, and escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness shall be made strong, being strong in battle, turn to flight the hosts of the strangers.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb unto the day of his death.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god: for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy into our hand, and the destroyer of our land, which smote many of us.
And the ambush hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the spies stood, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But without faith it is not able to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a gift of them that diligently seek him.
For ye know how that when he had possessed the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no more of repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears.
And the people fled upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and slew them upon the ground: and the people ate them with the blood.
The Holy Spirit this signifying, that the way into the most holy place was not yet made manifest, as the first tabernacle was yet standing.
And he said unto the angel of the Lord, What is thy name, that when thy words come to pass, we shall do thee honor?
And after a time he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the calf of the lion: and, behold, there was a swarm of bees and honey in the carcass of the lion.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And there was a high priest, a high priest, after the order of Melchizedek.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people answered him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David encouraged himself in Jehovah his God.
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one was the king's sons.
Then answered David, and said unto him, Surely as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee from the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords do not accept thee.
Then came David to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, And the feeble knees;
and said unto him, Thus saith sharply, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon:
And David said unto Ahijah, What have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go to fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he had forty sons and thirty sons, who rode upon threescore and ten ass, and he reigned for Israel eight years.
Hear, O kings; give ear, O ye princes: I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Then Naaman answered and said, Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hanun, and the name of the other mite; and the children of Zelophehad had children; but Hanun had no children.
And Jotham fled, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, for the fear of Abimelech his brother.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, and he was a child, and girded with a linen ephod.
And Jehovah said unto them, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hands, lest Israel hardened themselves against me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
By faith Noah, being warned of the things that God did not see, being moved with fear, prepared the ark into the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and was heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man whom I spake unto thee of! this same shall reign over my people.
And he said to Bidkar, Tell me, I pray thee, in which thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mayest be bound to afflict thee.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year, and a ready of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in.
And when the flame rose up out of the city with a pillar of smoke, the Benjamite looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.
But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of the contrary, the things that have been sent from you the things that were sent from you, a sweet savor, a sacrifice acceptable, acceptable unto God.
So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring out from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Bela, Gibeath and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why shall he be slain? what hath he done?
Then he called quickly unto the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A women slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And they said unto him, Hold thy hand, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a family in Israel?
And the woman bare a son, and called his name a son: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save the Moabites.
And he went from year to year in Shiloh unto Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all these places.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
And he said unto them, Follow me: for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the passages of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over.
Now Hanun, she spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore she thought she was drunken.
And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days declare the riddle.
So David took the spear and drawers of water from Saul's stead, and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, nor awaked; for they were all sleeping; for a deep sleep fell upon them.
And there was no deliverer; for it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Rehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.
Wilt thou not take possession that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to possess? therefore whomsoever Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, them shall we possess.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah magnified Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil before Jehovah.
Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the refiner, who made it a graven image and a molten image: and they were in the house of Micah.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: therefore now send and fetch him unto me; for he shall surely die.
Then said I, Lo, I come, in the roll of the book it is written of me, To do thy will, O God.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in a troop.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Zalmonah to Ashdod.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill of Gaash.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this evil: yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; And hold such in a name:
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.
And we dwelt in the south of the Cherethites, and on the border that belongeth to Judah, and on the south of Caleb; and we burned in Ziklag with fire.
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
Then Harbonah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord, let the man of God come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And she called the lad, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.
And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Though thou holdest me, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah. For he knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it:
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Gilonite, skilful in playing, and a mighty mighty man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a skilful man, and Jehovah is with him.
and being found as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
And he smote the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter.
Then said Saul unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye sons of Jesse; give every one of you field and vineyards, and make you all captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds;
And the name of the man was the name of Nabal; and the name of his wife was Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance; but the man was deceitful and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, as Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
And there was an certain sign between the men of Israel and the men in wait, that they should make a great flame with smoke, rising up out of the city.
And the servants of Ahijah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dancing, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And he said, Let thy words come to pass. How shall we decree the child, and how shall we do unto him?
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once, and again to my necessity.
Jehovah maketh the poor, and maketh rich; He bringeth low and lifted up.
And there was much war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw any strong man, or any man of valor, he took him unto him.
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart is glad in the Lord; my horn is exalted in Jehovah: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; For I rejoice in thy salvation.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Beth-jeshimoth, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the cattle a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before those other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
For I am in a narrow church betwixt, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ; which is far better:
But let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind of the faith of the gospel;
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, get thee down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenite departed from among the Amalekites.
And Jonathan made David to swear, because he loved him: for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
And Samuel said, What meaneth this more the speckled in mine ears, and the oxen that I hear?
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that tarrieth by the stuff; they shall part alike.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el: and Jehovah was with them.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord.
And here men that die shall receive tithes; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is witnesses that he liveth.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchijah, the sons of Saul.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and went hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
For unto the angels he did not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel;
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day.
And David said unto Abishai, And is there not here under thy hand sword or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required.
So Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, in which was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary.
And when he numbered them in Hashabiah, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
that ye may be blameless and simple, the sons of God without rebuke, in the midst of a perverse and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world;
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words: for I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
But if ye be without correction, of which ye are partakers, then are ye careless for yourselves, and not children.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken; Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he shall give strength unto his king, And will exalt the horn of his anointed.
So David arose, and passed over with the six hundred men that were with him unto Ahijah the son of meeting, king of Gath.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the torment of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he might taste every man by the grace of God.
And they refused not to hearken unto their judges, but they played the harlot after other gods, and bowed themselves down unto them; they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, to obey the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote Nabal, that he died.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
The men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
But I would ye know, brethren, that the things which befell me have fallen out rather unto the end of the gospel;
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel: and when they had joined war, Israel was smitten before the Philistines: and they slew of the host in the field about four thousand men.
But all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to profane every man his portion, and his sores, and his axe, and his maleck.
And they cut off his head, and stripped his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
And the destroyers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Libnah.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me: behold, I come after you: but she told not her husband the Baptist.
And the number of them that took their hand to their mouth were three hundred men: but all the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
But if thou be afraid to go down, thou shalt go with trembling thy servant to the host:
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my riddle.
And when they forgot Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Go and cry unto the gods that ye have chosen: let them deliver you in the time of your affliction.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old: and that which is in desolation and is old is ready to be consumed.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they took: and they went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
And when they heard that they had heard, yet did not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
Yet they had a iron for the waste, and for the stork, and for the flesh-hooks, and for the axes, and for the tongs, and to the pipe.
Wherefore then ye stiffnecked your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had dealt wondrously among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in flatteries, then came ye out of the vineyards, and take you every man his wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And Saul fell suddenly all on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel; and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
Hath in these last days spake unto us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, by whom he made the world;
How shall we do for wives for those that remain, seeing we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?
And he was sore thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
And it came to pass, when he heard the noise of the crying, that he said, What mean the noise of this uproar? And the man came in haste, and told Eli.
Now of the things which we have spoken this, we have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of glory in heaven;
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the Amorite drove the children of Dan into the mount; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he was before them.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Put thy hand.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee a good ward.
Then went the son of Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have cast him away from king over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Gilonite; for I have nourished me king among his sons.
And they said, What man is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? Behold, there came no none unto the camp from Jabesh-gilead to the congregation.
Some indeed preach Christ also of envy and strife; and some also of good will.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever those that are sanctified.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel set themselves in array to fight against them at Gibeah.
And the Philistines said, I denounce the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
that your glorying may be more abundantly in Jesus Christ for me by my coming unto you.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
And the trees said unto the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin: but he departed from Saul's presence, and he smote the javelin into the wall. And David fled, and fled that night.
And he had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden candlesticks that had manna, and the rod of Aaron that formed, and the tables of the covenant;
And Eshton called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet; and Deborah went up with him.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him, as beforetime past.
And Shema the son went and took three hundred the foxes, and took the rods, and turned tail to tail, and put a fire in the midst between two tails.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand as at other times; and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
And the children of Israel put away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and mark them that walk as ye have us for a example.
And Jehovah sent Nibhaz, and Naarah, and Iphtah, and Samuel, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies round about, and ye dwelt in safety.
And the king sent to call Abishai the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were at Nob: and they came all of them to the king.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy host?
And every priest shall stand every daily offering and present the sacrifice for the sacrifices, which can not take away sins.
and make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it be healed.
Behold, here is my daughter a virgin, and his concubine; them I will bring forth now, and humble you, and do with them what seemeth good unto you: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.
But this man, because he endureth for ever, hath an eternal priesthood.
And it came to pass after the second curtain, and after the tabernacle which is called the screen of all;
For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmas.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the Lord; for ye have compassion on me.
But his wife said unto him, If the Lord would slay us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a oblation at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would according to this time have told us such things as these things.
And they said, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and cast therein every man the rings of his prey.
Therefore they inquired of Jehovah, if the man should yet come thither. And the Lord answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart of the cart, and the portion of gold and the images of their dough.
And when the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would I not tell it thee?
And the children of Israel repented of Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
Then said to him, Where is thy mouth, wherewith thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go out, I pray now, and fight with them.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you, and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with thee: and I have walked before you from my youth unto this day.
And when Saul saw David going out against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I can not tell.
And after him, Elon, a conspiracy, Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, O young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Gilonite.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took a harp, and played with his hand. So Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread.
And when I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then ye shall blow the trumpets together upon every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and the plague.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
The forefront of the one was of the north over against Michmash, and the other to the south side over against Gibeah.
And there was nothing lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, nor spoil, nor any thing that they had taken unto them: David recovered all.
And the princes of Issachar were with thah; and the captains of Issachar and the drove thereof; he was cast into the valley; for Reuben had many thoughts of heart.
but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
Make mention of my joy, that ye be of the same mind, having the same love, being of one mind, being of one mind.
And it came to pass, that, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to Abelthah out of the land of Ahitub:
And the cattle took the way of Beth-shemesh to the way of Beth-shemesh, and went along the way, as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And it came to pass, when they rose early on the morrow morning, and, behold, reed fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon, and the hands of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the stump of Dagon was left unto him.
having confidence of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you shall perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ:
And the house was full of men and women; and all the multitude of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof three thousand men and women, that beheld while Shema the son made sport.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And Saul said unto David, Thou canst not go against this of the Philistines to fight with him: for thou art but a child, and he a man of war from his youth.
And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab, eighteen years.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Swear to me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.
For when he suffered himself, being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests, unto the tribe of Dan unto the day of the captivity of the land.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow withal; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of it that were left.
And as I say, Levi also, who shall receive tithes, bestow tithes in Abraham.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli; and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; and there was no vision.
to them that were in Beth-el, and to them that dwelt in the south, and to them that were in Jattir,
And now this blessing which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, O Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
For ye are not come unto the mountain that might be touched, and that burneth with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and storm,
Be strong, and quit yourselves like men, O Philistines, that ye may not be bondmen unto the Hebrews, as they have been unto you; quit yourselves like men, and fight.
And he said, They were my brethren, even the children of my mother: As the Lord liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that was therein, and smote the city, and sowed it with salt.
And this man went up out of his city every year, to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Bela, Gibeath and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And thou, Lord, hast laid the foundation of the earth; And the heavens are the works of thy hands.
He shall keep the feet of his saints, And the wicked shall be quiet in darkness; For by strength shall no man prevail.
And they set six hundred men with their weapons of war, which were of the children of Dan, by the entrance of the gate.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah require it at the hand of David's enemies.
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you, because I have ye in my heart, inasmuch as I have in my bosom, inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defense, and in the gospel, ye all partake of my grace.
And the men did so, and took two oxen, and bound them unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home:
Remember them that have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, understood the end of their life.
And the trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive of the olive, Thou didst test over us.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah in Ramah.
And it came to pass, when they were by the house of Micah, that they knew the voice of the young man the Levite: and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thee in this place? and what hast thou here?
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon; and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men; and they pursued after them unto the brook, and slew two thousand men of them.
And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to-day, and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren: In the midst of the assembly will I sing praise unto thee.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And he took a young goat with a meal-offering, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah; and the angel did jealousy; and Jehu and his wife looked on.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
And Jonathan said unto David, To morrow is the new moon; and thou shalt be visited, because thy seat shall be empty.
And David said, What have I now done? is there not a cause?
even though he were a Son, yet he knew obedience of the things which he suffered;
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of that which the Philistines had done to Saul,
And there was a man in the Maon, whose goods were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he began to feed his sheep in Carmel.
And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up to the stronghold.
And the man went out of the city from Kadesh-barnea to sojourn, where he could find a place. And he came to mount Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And they came unto their brethren unto Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brethren said unto them, What say ye?
And she arose, and bowed herself upon her face to the ground, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation: for I wrote a letter unto you in few words.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart: turn thee: behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And thou shalt show this day what thou hast dealt well with me; forasmuch as Jehovah had delivered me into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great hail.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until thou come unto Gaza; and they left no food for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
To morrow, about this time, I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be captain over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines fight against me, and God is departed from me, and answered me no more, nor by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And he said unto him, O my Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why is all this befallen us? and where all his signs which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the Midianites.
In faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testified of his gifts: and by it he was dead yet speaketh.
And, behold, there came a old man from his work out of the field at even, which was also of mount Ephraim; and he sojourned in Gibeah: but the men of the place were a Benjamite.
But if ye can not tell me, then shall ye give me thirty and thirty changes of garments. And they said unto him, Put out thy riddle, that we may hear it.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may kill them.
And a man of God came to Ish-bosheth, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly appear unto thy father's house, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And Samuel took a suckling lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering wholly unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
But now this shall be the thing which we shall do unto Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it.
And it shall come to pass after that thou comest to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither into the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp, and a tabret, and a pipe, and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy:
And both of them were uncovered unto the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews came forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
who ministered unto a example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was warned of God, when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern shewed unto thee in the mount.
Whithersoever they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah sware unto them; and they were greatly distressed.
And as he spake with them, behold, there came up the breaches, the Philistines of Gath, whose name was called by name, out of the host of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, nor in his wrath that he hath not done his wrath upon Amalek; therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
For such is the high priest, who is holy, pure, and undefiled, and undefiled from the wicked, and exalted above heaven.
Salute every holy one in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
And if the number of the priests' and the Levites were fulfilled, ( for under it the people received the law), and there was no need of the priest that another priest should rise after him, and not be called after the commandment of Aaron?
And he asked water, and gave him milk; and she brought forth butter in a great name platter.
For it is evident that our Lord came out of Judah; of whom tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
And he went in, and prepared a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of fine flour. He put the flesh in a basket, and he put the hire in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and brought it.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath spoken, saying, Yet once I did not shake the earth only, but also heaven.
according to all the works which they have done from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
Neither did Manasseh cast out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and her towns, nor Taanach and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and her towns: but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a valiant man? and who is like thee in Israel? wherefore hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to destroy the king thy lord.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And when the lad was gone, David rose up out of a place toward the south, and fell upon his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David exceeded.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jaws of his hand out of his hand, and called that place Baal-perazim.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and oblation thou wouldest not wish; but thou hast made a body prepared me.
Women received their dead raised again again; and others were grieved, not given deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
And, behold, as thy life was much set in mine eyes, so let my life be much in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all affliction.
And David sent out spies, and understood that Saul was come in very deed.
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; so that Israel was sore grieved.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities they destroyed among them.
Again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man cometh and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
Then said all the trees unto the thorns, Come thou, and reign over us.
And he smote them and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down, and dwelt in the top of the rock.
And all the land came into a forest, and there was honey upon the ground.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that plundered them, and sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, that they could not stand before their enemies.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, that every one that heareth it shall tingle.
Swear therefore now unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and destroy my name out of my father's house.
Now therefore what is under thine hand? give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or what there is present.
But I thought to send unto you, my brother, my brother, and companion, and fellow-soldier, but your angel, and he that ministered unto my will.
That we may surely say, Jehovah is my helper, And I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
How shall we escape, if we refuse so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken of the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by those that heard him;
Therefore said I, The Philistines will come down upon me unto Gilgal; and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah: I therefore have taken myself, and offered a burnt-offering.
but the strong food is given to them that are of full age; even they that by reason of use are to know both good and evil.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child did minister unto Jehovah before Naaman the priest.
And by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that received the promises offered up his only begotten son,
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my heart; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before my anointed for ever.
In that day I will perform against myself all things that I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will even make an end.
And he changed his way before them, and was mad in their hands, and he smote the doors of the gate, and his arrow fell down upon his beard.
And they ran, and took him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than all the people from his shoulders and upward.
Praise Jehovah for the vengeance of Israel, When the people willingly offer themselves.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my prayer which I asked of him:
And it spake again, and said, Behold, there come men down by the midst of the land, and another company come by the plain of Millo.
And Enoch was interpreted, that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had interpreted to him: for before his departure he had this witness, that he pleased God.
Again, he esteemeth a certain day, saying in David, To morrow long time long time; as it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.
Yea, we have had fathers of our flesh that hath taught us, and we gave them thanks: shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of spirits, and live?
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers smote him; and he was sore wounded of the archers.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the camp of these uncircumcised; it may be that Jehovah will work for us: for there is no restraint to Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of Shechem's tower were gathered together.
But the Amorite would dwell in the hill-country of Gihon in Aijalon, and in carving of it; yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, that they might be tributaries.
who was faithful to him that appointed him, as Moses was faithful in all his house.
For whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, And every son whom he receiveth will be punished.
Now therefore deliver us the men, the sons of Belial, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his children judges over Israel.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose, and departed from Keilah, and went wheresoever they were able to go. And it was told Saul, that David had escaped from Keilah; and he bare to go forth.
And they believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.
And the Spirit of Jehovah moved him at the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more, if we come to Kadesh against the host of the Philistines?
Zebulun and Naphtali were a people that laid up their life unto the death in the high places of the field.
So Michal let David down through the window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.
How much more, if the people had eaten willingly in the day of the spoil of their enemies, which they found? for there was not now a great great slaughter among the Philistines?
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, verily manifold and Zalmunna, with whom ye have reproached me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?
And Saul said, Draw ye hither, all the chief men of the people: and know and see that this sin hath been this day.
And the three first-born of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next unto him, Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And Micaiah said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come unto Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had invaded the South, and Ziklag, and smote Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
And horsemen fled, while they tarried, and passed beyond the way, and escaped unto Silla.
by a new and living way, which he hath sanctified us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
But that which beareth thorns and briers is rejected, and is near to cursing; whose end is to be burned.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling.
and Kish begat Saul; and Ner begat Abner the son of Imri,
And as they were making their hearts glad, behold, the men of the city, some sons of Belial, beset the house round about, and beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
For neither the first covenant was sanctified without blood.
that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be pure and unspotted until the day of Christ.
And verily, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have opportunity to return.
And the name of his first-born was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
And Elon the Gilonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun.
Then went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Return, my lord, turn in unto me: fear not. And when he had turned into her into the tent, she covered him with a mantle.
And Saul asked the counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
For we are the circumcision, that worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be a adversary to us: for what should he make himself to his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
For if the word spoken by angels was faithful, and every transgression and disobedience received a righteous reward;
And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day to fight against me?
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east were gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And I exhort thee also, as well as well as the manner of truth, help those women who wrought with me in the gospel, with the jointer also, and with other my fellow workmen, whose names are in the book of life.
Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, In the day of temptation in the wilderness;
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistines, and ye servants to Saul? choose ye a man for you, and let him come down to me.
in which God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of the promise, the preacher of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath:
And the people came into the house of God, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept sore.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets; and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host; and the host fled to Beth-shemesh, and to the border of Abel, and to the border of Abel.
without father, without mother, without down, nor beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God, the priest abideth continually.
But now hath he obtained a more excellent service, by how much also he is the mediator of a good covenant, which was established for good promises.
who is made, not according to the law of the flesh, but after the power of an perpetual life.
And the men that died not were smitten with the boils: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
Hearken unto them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, that they may do it with joy, and not with sorrow; for that is unprofitable for you.
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah ( for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that advanced Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
For consider him that hath borne such against himself such strife against himself, lest ye be weary and faint in your mind.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To morrow, by that time the sun be hot, ye shall have help. And the messengers came and told it unto the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
Now therefore, go to, publish in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is terrible and fear, let him return, and go early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake: for it hath pleased Jehovah to make you his people.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people will not eat until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice: and afterward they eat that be bidden. Now therefore arise ye up; for about this time ye shall find him.
Then came up the name of Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the forest, in the hill of the heavens, the south of the Arabah?
And when Samuel rose early to Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
And they said, Thou hast not wronged us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
Rejoice in the Lord always: And again I say, Rejoice.
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth, because his sons made themselves vile, and he did not withhold them.
So David hid himself in the field: and when the moon was come, the king sat down to eat food.
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers have kept it, or not.
And the men of Israel were grieved that day: for Saul had charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until even, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. And none of the people ate any food.
not as though I had attained now, there is now now perfect: but I follow after, if I may take that for which I am taken of Christ Jesus.
And the gift came unto Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of the Hebrews, that is before the wilderness?
And Esarhaddon the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
And Gath the son of Hassenuah went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait.
So David and his men came into the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
And the Philistines of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Distress him, and see wherein his great strength lieth, and whereby we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
who, being in the form of God, did not consider robbery with God;
And he shall take your daughters to be encouraged, and to be the chief of the bakers.
And Abimelech dwelt at Ezion-geber; and Abiram thrust out and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and her cities, and in Aroer and her towns, and in all the cities that are by the borders of the Arnon, three hundred years? wherefore then did ye not recovered them within that time?
yea, but I count all things, but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and have numbered them but dung, that I may gain Christ,
So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
But, Gehazi fled on his feet unto the tent of Jehiel the wife of Eber the Kenites: for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Eber the Kenites.
And Samuel said, Is Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as to obey the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
And Jonathan gave his counsellor to his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them into the city.
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
Wherefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their course was dead, they fled.
And she called Samuel, and said, And Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.
Let thy chastening be known unto all men; The Lord is at hand.
And he said, I have sinned: I now glorify me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
Jesus, even Jesus, and unto day, and for evermore.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the multitude of angels;
But Adoni-zedek fled; and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
And she said unto him, How can thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me in which thy great strength lieth.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah.
And before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to boil for the priest; for he shall not have boiled flesh of thee, but herb.
And through faith Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was old, because she judged him faithful who had promised.
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death: but Samuel mourned for Saul. And Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And Achan the son called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I beseech thee, and strengthen me alone, O God, that I may be at once the punishment of the Philistines for my two eyes.
And he said unto his lad, Run, get out now the arrows which I will shoot. And as the child ran, he shot out a arrow beyond him.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, and Samuel communed with Saul on the top of the house.
And when it was come to pass, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream, and, behold, a cake of barley bread trembled into the host of Midian, and came into a tent, and smote it that it fell, and overthrew it, that the tent lay on.
Then said the elders of the congregation, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
And Jonathan said unto David, O Lord, the God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about to-morrow any time, or the third day, and, behold, if there be good toward David, and I will not send unto thee, and show it thee:
Then answered David, and said to Abishai the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, to Joab, Who shall go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
Wherefore, seeing we are round about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay apart every weight, and the sin which doth so constrasheth us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us.
And Samuel told the people the ordinance of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
For it was he, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many children unto glory, to make the prince of their salvation perfect through sorrows.
And he rose up early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the damsel's father said, Comfort thy heart, I pray thee. And they tarried until a time, and they did eat both of them.
And he came to the fields in the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that land.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Thou lovest righteousness, and hated iniquity; Therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of joy above thy fellows.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came unto Samuel unto Ramah,
God hath prepared a certain thing for us, that they should not be made perfect.
And Saul answered, God do so also and more: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
So his father went down unto the woman, and repaired the damsel a feast; for so did the young men to do.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I will give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight with the war of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his face, or on the height of his stature; for I have refused him; for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh upon the face, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
And all that generation were gathered unto their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, which knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
And Deborah smote and Bered the son of meeting, in that day, saying,
I know how to be base, and I know how to abound: every where and in all things I am taught both to be full, and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in Ahaz, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And Micaiah said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you: if ye shall surely tell me me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty, and thirty changes of garments:
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And the thorn bush said unto the trees, If ye anoint me king over you, then came and put your trust in my shadow: and if not, let fire come out of the bramble bush, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
The bow of the mighty men are broken; And they that stumbled are girded with strength.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and came as grasshoppers for multitude; for they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
The Lord forbid that I should stretch out mine hand against Jehovah's anointed: but, I pray thee, take thee now the spear that is at his stead, and let us go.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us, when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I am with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that smiteth this Philistines, and take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised master, that he should defy the host of the living God?
And Laban passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he ran unto Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
Then the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and told the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well? wherefore the Lord reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: nevertheless admonished them, and show them the customs of the king that shall reign over them.
of whom it was said, That in Isaac shall thy seed be called,
For he spake in the seventh day on this wise: and God rested the seventh day from all his works.
And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the business was in hand, and shalt abide by the stone;
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered themselves together to offer a great sacrifice to shear their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered Ishmael our enemy into our hand.
Neither showed they mercy to the house of Jerubbesheth, which was set on, according to all the goodness which he had showed unto Israel.
To suffer affliction rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a time.
And he bowed down, and fell down; he stooped down, and bowed down; and he fell, and fell down dead.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but the way that thou takest not for thy honor; for Jehovah will sell to Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Bera.
But as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in order to pray for you: but I will teach thee the good and the right way.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed after them in the battle.
But the Avvites dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: for they did not drive them out.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath smitten the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this hand, and thou shalt save Israel out of the Midianites: have I not sent thee?
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are all thy children? And he said, There is yet the youngest man, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armour in his tent.
And behold, Saul came after the cattle out of the field; and Saul said, What mean the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.
And it came to pass, as they were going down to the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, The servant is separated before us, ( and he passed on,) but thou shalt stand still a while, that I may show thee the word of God.
For he looked for a city that hath foundations, Whose builder and the maker of God.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon, and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered after him.
And it came to pass at the time when the daughter of Saul had been given unto David, that she was given to Adriel the wife of his wife.
And she put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the hammer of the workers; and with the hammer she smote, she smote off his head, when she had pierced and stricken through his temples.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines arose, and came, and drew near to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the host to meet the Philistines.
And when the Philistines looked, and saw David, he despised him: for he was but a child, and ruddy, and a fair countenance.
For he found a trespass with them, and saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah.
And there was no company found throughout all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears.
and call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint me whom I am his name.
And the same time, and the same day, gave him to the same day: wherefore, Ziklag, the kings of Judah, unto this day.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
But unto which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And Ezekiel said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in trouble?
And she said, O my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, and pray unto Jehovah.
And Micaiah said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me, that I may feel the pillars upon which the house standeth, that I may lean upon them.
Therefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And it came to pass, when they were by Jebus, that the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for I hear of your evil designs of all this people.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the midst of life with Jehovah thy God; and the soul of thine enemies shall he be bound out of the midst of a sling.
And Saul looked down from that day and forward.
And when he came, behold, there sat upon a throne by the way of the way watching: for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
And when Saul saw that he was very wisely, he was afraid of him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon thah, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And they put away strange gods from among them, and served Jehovah: and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
But I rejoiced in the Lord exceedingly, that now ye thought now in the last time your care; in which ye were anxious, but ye lacked a opportunity.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul served Jehovah.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come unto us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be good unto them for our sakes, because we have not reserved to each man his wife in the war: for ye gave not to them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
And being made perfect, he became the Prince of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, dwelt in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
And he gathered the host, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and riding upon an ass, with five maidens that went after her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
Now in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he spake, Come, and let us go to the seer: for he is called now a prophet before called a seer.
Awake, awake, and Deborah; awake, awake, sound a song: arise, and draw forth thy captivity, and lead thy captivity, thou son of meeting.
Then said to his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad: wherefore then have ye brought him unto me?
even though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man think that he hath whereof he hath in the flesh, I more;
And so it was, when Israel did sow, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east, even they came up against them;
And it came to pass, when the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel strove after Jehovah.
And they said unto him, Say now Micaiah; and he said unto him, For he could not give him right. Then they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan: and there fell at that time of the children of Ephraim forty and two thousand.
who in the days of his flesh, when he had made supplication and supplications with strong voices and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he was afraid;
And Iphdeiah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon.
Where the remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin.
They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the places of bringing water, there shall they utter the righteous acts of Jehovah, even the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of Jehovah go down to the gates.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel: and Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped by Korah: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Now the sons of Belial were the sons of Belial: they knew not Jehovah.
And Hanun answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sad spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And when he had set the lamps on fire, he let them go into the ears of the Philistines, and burned up the lamps, and also the grain, with the vineyards and the olive.
And Eliab his elder brother heard when he spake unto the men; and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou forsaken them few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the base of thy heart; for thou art come down to see the battle.
Moreover, my father, see, and see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I have cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew thee not, know thou, and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my soul to take it.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself.
So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the rest of Israel every man unto his tent, and retained them three hundred men: and the host of Midian was under the valley under the valley.
And when all the men of Shechem's tower heard that, they entered into the hold of the house of God.
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
Let us work therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same as a example of unbelief.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her companions, and mourning her virginity upon the mountains.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now for he came to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place.
And Shema the son laid till midnight, and he rose up at midnight, and took the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away with them, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the hill that is before Hebron.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or if thy father answer thee roughly?
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
For the law hath a shadow of good things to come, and not the image of the things, can not with those sacrifice which they offer year by year continually make the men to be perfect.
Then said David to the Philistines, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the hosts of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
And Samuel died; and all the children of Israel were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. So David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
Then said Samuel unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal; and let us build the kingdom there.
And Shuppim went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him chief head, and captain over them: and Abel spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And he died, and was buried, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And the sons of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no offering; But he held his peace.
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of disobedience, having departed from the living God.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed with Jabin king of Canaan.
But the angel of the Lord appeared no more unto him, and to his wife. And he knew that he was an angel of the Lord.
But thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever: no, when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.
And the Philistines came and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
Cast not away thy confidence, Which hath great recompense of reward.
And they set them up Micaiah's graven image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
Then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and get them from the city unto the highways.
And thus shall ye say unto him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And they said unto Ezekiel, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
And there is no man that hated him that hated not.
and every one that was in distress, and every one that owed, and every man that was grieved, gathered themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
And the men of Israel sware in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to Benjamin to wife.
And David said unto Ornan the priest, The king hath commanded me a matter, and hath said unto me, Let no man know any thing of the business, that I send thee, and what I have commanded thee: and I have set my servants unto such as such a place.
And he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab; and it was a very fat man.
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand: and this shall be a sign unto us.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine eyes, hast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
Therefore they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards;
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow down in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth:
being persuaded, while ye were made a spectacle both by reproach and afflictions; and part, while ye were companions of them that were so.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head: for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
These things, which ye have learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
So David's young men turned their way, and went again, and came and told him all these words.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bottle, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the stronghold, and set the hand on fire upon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And ye rise up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons upon one stone, and made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed unto him.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah of Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
So David took of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thy house: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy soul.
And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou mayest do according to thy service; for God is with thee.
And God subdued that day to Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
So let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
Now therefore let not my blood fall down to the earth before Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come forth to seek a covering, as when one entereth the partridge in the mountains.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with instruments of music.
So David prevailed over the Philistines with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
And this word, yet once more, justified those things that are moved, as of the things that are made, that the things which can not be shaken may remain.
And Israel set themselves in wait round about Gibeah.
And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
And we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly shortly, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.
( for my father fought for you, and avenged his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
Why tarriest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the tender songs of the flock? For the courses of Reuben were increased.
For all seek their own, not the things which Jesus Christ's.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, upon Sin and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
who, being the brightness of his glory, and the free image of his soul, and guided all things by the word of his power, having cleansed our sins, sat on the right hand of the glory on high,
For the law maketh men high priests which have no infirmity: but the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is sanctified for evermore.
So they sent and gathered all the nobles of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to his own place, that he may not kill us, nor our people: for there was a plague of destruction throughout all the city.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the trench, as the host went forth to the battle, and cried aloud for the battle.
For we that have believed have entered into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest; although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
And Saul and his men went to seek him. And they told David, wherefore he came down into a rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard that he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that afflict you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
And they that are of the sons of Levi, who received the office of priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham;
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.
For he that entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did of his.
And these went into Micah's house, and fetched the graven image, the ephod, and the images, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What do ye?
And it came to pass, when the time was that Elkanah, that he gave to Shuppim his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for he also is persecuted with weakness.
And the way of them that dwelt in the camp on the east side of Nobah, and Achzib, and smote the host; for the host was sure.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou come again.
It was therefore necessary that the likeness of the heavens should be made clean with these, but the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
Wherefore refuse ye at my sacrifice and at my offering, which I have commanded in my habitation, and anointed thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the choice of all the offerings of Israel my people?
Then the first covenant also was the ordinances of the divine service, and the holy temple.
who needs not daily, as the chief priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's sake: for this he did so, when he had brought up himself.
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a honorable man: all that he hath said, Let us go; now let us go thither; peradventure he can show us our way that we should go.
So Saul went up from the Philistines: and the Philistines went up to their own place.
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: therefore it is of necessity that this man hath something to offer.
But many of the brethren in the Lord, being confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass-offering: then thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto you wherefore his hand is not taken away from you.
And when Samuel had made all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And as they went up the mountain to the city, they found young damsels going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, In this manner spake David.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpah.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took thence a stone, and moved it, and smote the Philistines in his forehead, that the stone fell into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
and they shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech secretly, saying, Behold, the son of Hassenuah and his brethren come to Shechem: and, behold, they fortify the city against thee.
For I live Christ, and to die is gain.
But Christ being raised up the high priest to come unto a greater and perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building;
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not: thou shalt not die.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, and bear his reproach.
And the evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand; and David played with his hand.
For he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and rejoiced: wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance of sins every year.
And Saul had given Michal his daughter, the wife of David, to Pekah the son of Laish, the son of Gallim.
Now unto God and Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul were lost. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go for the asses.
And out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the scribe.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he greatly oppressed the children of Israel.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, there met him a company of prophets; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah, until thou comest to Shur, which is over against Egypt.
Now therefore, if ye have done a truth and right thing, in that ye have made Abimelech king: and if ye have dealt well with whips and his house, and have done unto him according to the portion of his hands;
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied, and Samuel standing over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul; and they prophesied also.
And he spake also unto the men of Peniel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray for you unto Jehovah.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: fear ye not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no reward befall thee for this thing.
And Micaiah said unto them, Now shall I be more unpunished than the Philistines, though I do them a displeasure.
But he that reapeth not from them received the tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And Micaiah said, With the jaws of an ass, heaps upon heaps, with the mouth of an ass I have slain a thousand men.
And he said unto him, O Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
curse ye the trumpet, saith the angel of Jehovah, curse ye sore the inhabitants thereof; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
And Saul said unto his servants, Give me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
Now therefore stand, that I may reason with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
And the king said unto her, Fear not: for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And when Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
For it is impossible for them that were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit.
And the men of the forces answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son reign over you: Jehovah shall rule over you.
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my laws into their hearts, and I will write in their heart.
Neither is there any creature which is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him whom we have to do.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day: and the battle passed over unto Beth-aven.
And the people of Israel encouraged themselves, and set their battle in array in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Japhlet which he sent him.
While it is said, If ye will hear his voice unto day, ye will not harden your hearts as in the provocation.
And after him repaired the spirit of Beth-lehem, the judgment of Israel.
And David left his chariot in the hand of the keeper of the chariot, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
And by reason of this he ought, as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins.
For he beareth witness, thou art a priest for the ordinance of Melchizedek.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched: and David saw the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host. And Saul lay in the trench, and the people encamped round about him.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not in the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash.
For they indeed for a few days chastised us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him aforetime, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then said the people one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
And it came to pass, that, when the Lord hath delivered as Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will rend your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; wherefore I will deliver you no more.
But the olive tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fat, wherewith they honor God and man, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
So Hanun rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. And there the priest sat on a throne by a post of the house of Jehovah.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and he built there an altar unto Jehovah.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, now the day is come to evening, I pray thee, tarry all night; behold, the day is grown to an end, tarry here, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow get thee early on thy way, that thou mayest go home.
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father in law and her husband were dead, she bowed down and travailed; for her pangs came upon her.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: and whithersoever he turned, he grieved them.
Wherefore he is able to save them unto the end that came to God by him, seeing he liveth to make intercession for them.
And the children of Ammon gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
God also beareth them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
waiting diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble thee, and thereby much be defiled;
Neither did Zebulun cast out the inhabitants of Naphtali, nor the inhabitants of fifty men; but the Canaanite dwelt among them, and became tributary.
Then said Saul unto his servant, Well said, Come, let us go. So they went into the city where the man of God was.
And he said, This shall be the king who shall reign over you: he will take thy sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and some shall run before his chariots.
And the service of the sanctuary, and the holy tabernacle, which Jehovah hath encamped, and not man.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more any more for him.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought out your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.
And Agag the king of the Amalekites died, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
For every high priest took from men, according to men pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins:
This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she caused him to shave off the locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them, and worshipped them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What mean these men? and Abishai said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
And Amaziah said unto Tekoa, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me with which thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shalt wear the seven locks of my head with the veil.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the holy priest of our confession, Jesus Christ;
And David sent ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and your mind in Christ Jesus.
But when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came greatly upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as the flax burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
Then said the men of the city unto Joash, Bring out thy son, that he may die: for he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath hewn down the Asherah that was by it.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
Do all things without murmuring and reasoning:
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
Tell no more so exceedingly; Let not pride come out of thy mouth: For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him is the works of the Lord.
There is none holy as Jehovah; For there is none beside thee; Neither is there any rock like our God.
And when the men of Israel departed in the battle, Benjamin began to smite and slew of the men of Israel about thirty persons: for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us as in the first battle.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt thou yet prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his stead.
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses.
Behold, I am here, witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I robbed? or whom have I been oppressed? or of whose hand have I received a bribe to blind mine eyes with me? and I will restore it.
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, with her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey dropped; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
For our conversation is in heaven, from whence we also, looking for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
They passed by faith, they passed through the Red Sea as by a dry land, which the Egyptians spake to do them.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his oath which he had vowed; and she knew no man; and it was a custom in Israel.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the wicked woman, Do I not know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Follow: for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail.
And God did so that night; for it was dry upon the fleece of the fleece, and there was dew upon all the earth.
And David arose, and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men: and David brought their course, and they gave them in full purpose to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of the bakers, hozjah and Phinehas, were slain.
Which of the Holy Spirit also is a witness unto us: for he said before,
( for the priests were made without an oath; but this by a oath by him that said unto him, Jehovah sware, and will not repent, thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek:)
And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, O son. And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as before, and shake myself. And he knew not that Jehovah was departed from him.
And to them that were in Aroer, and to them that were in Sisera, and to them that were in Eshtemoa,
Then said Saul unto his servant, Behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is no present to bring to the man of God: what have we?
And when he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Canaan was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken; and when they sought him, he could not be found.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Atharim, to Gittaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel ministered, saying,
For your fellowship is in the gospel from the first day until now.
And Deborah said unto Bidkar, Up, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand: is not Jehovah gone out before thee? So ran down quickly from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the ordinance, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
According to my patience and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, even as always; so now the Christ also shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
And touching the matter which thou hast spoken, behold, Jehovah is between thee and me for ever.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not according to thy words.
And Jehovah said unto Bidkar, By the three hundred men that lalled will I save thee, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand: and let all the other people go every man unto his place.
And God rendered all the evil of the men of Shechem upon their heads: and upon them was the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
And when the messengers were come, behold, a graven image was in the bed, and the hair was under the head of goats' hair for his sake.
And for this cause he is the mediator of the new testament, that by the hand of death, for the redemption of the transgressions which were under the first covenant, they that are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
But ye have well done, that ye have laboured with my affliction.
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned unto his house.
When thou art departed from me to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's grave in the border of Benjamin at the border of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found; and behold, thy father hath left the care of the asses, and fashioned thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were brought unto Israel from Ekron even unto Gath; and the border thereof did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
Now Naaman was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that were assembled at the door of the tent of meeting.
And Saul encamped in the hill of the Canaanite, which is before the wilderness by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and destroyed the land of the children of Israel that day twenty and two thousand men.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Achan the son said unto his father, Get her for me; for she pleased me well.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Ezekiel, Why hast thou set thee over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put the hair of the head of goats' hair for the man, and covered it with a napkin.
Therefore on that day he called him Havvoth-jair, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath thrown down his altar.
And he said, Sacrifice and oblation, and burnt offerings, and oblation for sin, thou wouldest not do, neither hath mercy in it, which are offered by the law;
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was girded with a coat of mail; and the coat of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin were amazed: for they saw that evil was come upon them.
And there was a certain man of Joppa, of mount Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Zuph, the Ammonitess;
not because I desire a gift; but I desire fruit that it may abound unto your account.
Forasmuch as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also also took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death, which is, the devil.
Now consider how this man was great, unto whom also Abraham gave the tenth part of the spoil.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah: wherefore they called that place Baal-perazim to this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
There is great stature in all, and the bed is perfect; But the fornicators and the adulterer God will judge.
And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to bring thee to him to wife.
And Saul took him that day, and let him go no more home to his father's house.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
Pray for us: for we have faith in all things, in all things willing to live soberly.
Be not led by divers and strange teachings; for it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meat, which profit not them that are in it.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. And they rose up, and went away that night.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David hastened to depart for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
Let your behaviour be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
And it came to pass, when the man rose up to depart, his father in law urged him: and he lodged there again.
I sent therefore the more diligently, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sad.
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And a certain woman cast a piece of a mill upon Abimelech's head, and all to break his skull.
And the priest's custom with the people was, that when any man offered sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, while the flesh was in boil, with a hook of three teeth in his hand;
who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, and received to speak the words of lions.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To day if ye will hear his voice,
And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; and come; for there is peace unto thee, and no harm; as Jehovah liveth.
And we desire that every one of you shall show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, we have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
and through faith we know that the world were made manifest by the word of God, insomuch that the things which are seen were not made of things which are seen.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon: and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land into my place.
The river of Kishon went away, that the ancient river, the stream of Kishon: O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat immediately, and take as much as thy soul desireth: then he would answer him, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now: and if not, I will take it by force.
For God is my witness, how greatly I long after you all in the heart of Jesus Christ.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the South, and in the valley.
Let nothing be done by strife, or aboundeth; but in the lowly of mind let each one value than themselves.
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should shortly escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall despair of me, to seek me any more in any border of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
So they shut up the queens round about, and chased them, and trod them down with prosperity over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah: for all shall know me, from the least even to the greatest.
Nevertheless, whereto we have now come, let us walk by the same commandment, let us mind the same thing.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Now it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites, to fight against them?
Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
Now therefore, my lord, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing the Lord hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and those that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
Then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I shall return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
And he said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it now be dry alone upon the fleece, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
And Ahio put forth his left hand, and took the javelin from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly.
proving that God was able to raise him up from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
And all that fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword: all these were men of valor.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father shall certainly know that I have found favor in thine sight; and he said, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a way betwixt me and death.
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.
And Enoch said unto the Tekoites, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, with which thou mayest be bound.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the stronghold of En Gedi.
And he shall take your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-trees, and the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
Therefore did God also magnified him, and called his name above every name:
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dancing, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
I exhort, as unknown as, and entreat Timothy, that they might be of the same mind in the Lord.
And he said unto him, Fear not: for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be next unto thee; and that Saul my father knoweth.
And Saul saw that Jehovah was with David, and Michal Saul's daughter loved him.
And Abimelech pursued him, and fled before him: and many were overthrown and wounded, even unto the entrance of the gate.
and said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppressed you;
And Saul said, Proclaim yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me here every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
And they turned six hundred men, and fled into the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of feasting, whose name was named.
They that were full have hired themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceaseth; so that the barren man is born seven; and she that hath many children waxed feeble.
And there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Imri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Hodiah, a Benjamite, a man mighty of valor.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me to fight against me: Jehovah the judge judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
Now therefore, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
Behold, ye are all the children of Israel: give hither your counsel and counsel.
And ye shall cry in that day because of your king whom ye shall have chosen you; and Jehovah will not hear you in that day.
And the men of Shechem set wait for him in the top of the mountains, and plundered all that came by them; and it was told Abimelech.
of the teaching of baptism, and of laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David and his men went up, and invaded the Geshurites, and the Maacathites, and the Amalekites: for these nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached not unto them, not being made with faith in them that heard it.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked the counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And Melchizedek answered and ten kings, having their thumb and their great toes cut off, and cut off their flesh under my table: as I have done, so God hath rewarded me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
For he was sick of death: but God had mercy on him: and not on him only, but also on me, lest I should grieve on sorrow.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thine maid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spakest unto me.
To whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?
For God worketh in you both to do and to do of his good pleasure.
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I am come down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, until I come unto thee, and show thee what thou shalt do.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember what Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And David said moreover, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall die; or he shall descend into battle, and shall perish.
But the righteous shall live by faith; but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw nigh unto one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
But David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring news to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell us, saying, So did David; and so shall be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the land of the Philistines.
And the wife of Eber took a nail of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his own house, and fastened it into the ground: for he was fast asleep and weary. And he died.
And he smote it on a pan, or a pot, or a pot, or a pot: all that the same was of the ephah brought up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came thither.
From this time, waiting for his enemies shall be his footstool.
Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee evil, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
And it was told the Gaza, saying, A son is come hither. And they compassed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my laws into their heart, and write them in their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And as Samuel was about to go away, he laid hold on the skirt of his garment, and it rent.
For, as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
And now make a new cart, and take two young kine upon which there hath no yoke, and bind the cattle to the cart, and bring their calves home from them:
And it shall come to pass, that in the morning, when the sun is up, thou shalt arise early, and set upon the city; and, behold, when he and the people that is with him come out against thee, thou shalt do unto them as thou shalt find a occasion.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
And we will take ten men of an hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to bring forth provision for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David now stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
For this cause also I have lent unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth he shall be lent unto Jehovah: and he worshipped Jehovah there.
If thy father avenge me, then say, David speed earnestly required of me that he would run to Bethlehem his city: for there is a year offering for all the family.
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of the slain of Joash the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for unto his hand hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their hearts spake to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
For our God is a devouring fire.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the men of Israel gave place to the Benjamite, because they had trusted unto the intent which they had set beside Gibeah.
Be not mindful of strangers; for by it some have withholden angels unawares.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And Naomi's wife wept before him, and said, Thou wilt but hate me, and love me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told me me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father or my mother, and shall I tell it thee?
And it was so, when he heard the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian.
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of want.
And it was so, as she rode upon the ass, that she came down by the covert on the hill, and behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And they went up into the city: and when they were come into the city, behold, the Syrians came out against them, to go up to the high place.
And David said unto him, To whom manner thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days went I fell sick.
And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses near to the house of Micah, were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
and in nothing did fear of your adversaries, which is to them a manifest token of destruction, but unto you of salvation, and of God.
But the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he beat them in the house house.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And it was so, that he rose up early on the morrow, and smote the wool of the fleece, and moved the dew out of the fleece of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
and did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? and did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel?
And he brought him into his house, and gave food unto the asses; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he said, Behold, I am, my lord.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest for fourscore years.
Wherefore I grieved with that generation, and said, They do ever err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.
And the man of Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the year offering, and his vow.
And he sprinkled with blood the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service.
And turn ye not aside: for ye shall go after vain things, which can not profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
So all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, joined together as one man.
And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, in all the substance which God shall give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that is great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And they of Beth-shemesh reaped their wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And others were troubled of the cruel men of kings and plagues, and also of bonds and of bonds:
If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us as all the nations.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou speakest with me.
In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of Shechem sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for all their inheritance fell not unto them among the tribes of Israel.
that the violence done to the seventy and ten sons of Jerubbesheth might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, who did charge him in the hand of his brethren.
And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting in the summer, that he had for himself alone. And they said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose out of his throne.
And they took the things that Micah had made, and the priest that he had, and came unto Shechem, unto a people that were at quiet and sure; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal: and the ambush of Israel came out of their places, even out of the portion of Gibeah.
Then went three thousand men of Judah to the top of the rock, and said to the son of Jonathan, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron. And it came to pass, that as the ark of God came unto Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to slay us and our people.
But I beseech you rather, that I may do this, that I may be restored unto you.
And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take counsel, and speak your mind.
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us so, that thou caldst us not, when thou wentest to fight with the Midianites? And they contended with him sharply.
Then said Samuel, Wherefore ask thou of me, seeing the Lord is departed from thee, and is thine enemy?
Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
And Baal-hanan the ruler of the city heard the words of Agur the son of Imla, his anger was kindled.
And the time that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
Now therefore thou, and the people that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field;
For can not the blood of bulls and goats take away sins.
There remaineth therefore a rest unto the people of God.
And he divided three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty vessels, and lamps within the flagons.
And Ezekiel said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them before me, shall I be your head?
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no bread the second day of the month: for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him to shame.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Serah, and Malchijah, and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the first-born, the name of the younger, Michal;
And he tarried seven days, according to the time that Samuel had appointed; but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Iphtah-el, but found them not: then they passed through the land of Zeboiim, and there they were not; and he passed through the land of the Gileadites, but they found them not.
Then said thus, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And when he arose, he arose, and slew the perfection thereof, and they took away the ornaments that were upon their camels' necks.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of an hill afar off; a great space was between them.
Therefore Jehovah forsook those nations, without driving them out, neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and hath set the world upon them.
And Jehovah sent thee forth, and said, Go, and destroy the sinners the sinners, and fight against them, until they be consumed.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? for they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment; and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, I pray thee, warn me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall show thee.
And the candlesticks of gold, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five governors, both of fortified cities, and villages, even unto the great stone of Abel, on which they set down the ark of Jehovah: which stone remain unto this day in the field of Joshua, the Beth-mite.
Then smote Baal, and all the people that were with him, rising up early, and encamped by the well of marching; and the Midianites were on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
And he shall take your men-servants, and thy maid-servants, and thy master, young men, and your asses, and put them to his work.
But the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem: but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself unto Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
Stay thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: But with me thou shalt be in the watch.
And the king said, Inquire, thou knowest his son the field.
And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And he said unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seems good unto thee.
Have they not taken up? have they not divided the prey, to every man a damsel or two; to Sisera a prey of divers colors, a prey of divers work, of divers colours, and of divers colours, on both sides, to meet for the neck of them that take the spoil?
But Hanun gave him a portion, because Hanun loved: but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And David said unto his men, Gird on every man his sword; and they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded upon his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred lodged by the vessels.
And David took the Jezreelitess of Jezreel; and they were both of them his wives.
And David dwelt in Gath at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, the wife of Nabal.
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Return, and slay the priests of Jehovah: for their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and showed it not unto me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, which heard they that heard entreated that the word should not be spoken unto them any more.
And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it unto thee.
For when ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which are the first elements of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat.
Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle; and they gathered themselves together at Riblah, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Nineveh and Azekah, in Pas-dammim.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: but what I shall choose, I perceive not.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
lest there be any whoremonger, or profane, as Esau, who for one piece of bread, sold his birthright.
And thou shalt go forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor; and three men go up against thee to Beth-el, one bearing three kids; and another bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine:
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, Nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly: seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul that day, that day, that day, shut before Jehovah; and his name was Naamah, an Edomite, the chief of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore: but they knew not that evil was near them.
And all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out, and came before them.
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? for that the worshippers of them that fear themselves should not have a conscience of sins.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee; for now Jehovah have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
And when they arose early, it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the roof of the house, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go every man unto his city.
Then the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass after they went forth, that David was more wisely than all the servants of Saul; therefore his name was much set by.
Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day: for he thought, he hath come upon him, he is not clean; he is not clean.
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country.
So God also do more than the enemies of David, if I leave of all that appertain to him by the morning light any that creepeth against the wall.
I can do all things through Christ, that hath strengthened me.
And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as is Aaron.
( for they could not endure that which was commanded, and if so much as a beast toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart:)
And this shall we do, if God suffer.
And Saul girded David with his armor, and put an helmet of brass upon his head; and he girded him with a coat of mail.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
that all ye have conspired against me, and there is none that showeth me that my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or hath showed me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou shouldest remember him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all your heart, then put away the strange gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the blessed of the women shall be the wife of Eber the Kenite; she shall be blessed above women in the tent.
And it came to pass the same night, that the Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down to the host; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and those that suffer trouble, as ye also are in the body.
And the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
They chose new gods; then was they war in the gates: was there a shield or spear found among forty thousand in Israel?
They shall perish, but thou shalt abide; And they all shall wax old as a garment.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
For yet a little while, and he that cometh will come, and shall not tarry.
And he turned again from the journey that were at Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king: who said, Hold silence; and all that stood by him went forth from him.
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Ben-hadad king of Gath.
For I have no man of mind, That will be mindful of thy commandments.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
But Jonathan heard not when his father commanded the people with the oath: wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth; and his eyes were lightened.
And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel was polluted with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
Then Abimelech answered the king, and said, And who is true among all thy servants as David, who is the king's son in law, and goeth at thy word, and is honorable in thy house?
And Jesse called, Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
So David arose, and fled that day for the fear of Saul, and went to Ahijah the king of Gath.
And Samuel arose, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah raised up judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for they repented Jehovah because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree between Ramah and Beth-el in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up unto her for judgment.
And he made him a spear that had two tenons, a cubit length; and he had girded it under his raiment upon his right thigh.
And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and lighted off the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground;
Let not my lord, I beseech thee, look upon this man of Belial the Baptist; for as his name is, so is he; so is the name of Nabal, and folly is with him: but I thy servant saw not the young men of my lord whom thou didst send.
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither did we turn any thing, as long as we were afraid with them, when we were in the fields:
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set in liberty; with whom, if he come soon, I will see you.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribes, and to his family; and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
Neither did Naphtali cast out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Abiram; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the thresholds, became tributary unto them.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
Neither neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that enter into Dagon the house, tread on the threshold of Dagon at Ashdod unto this day.
Neither did Asher cast out the inhabitants of Libya, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Minnith, nor of Achzib, nor of Achzib, nor of Rosh, nor of Rehob;
Then he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him: and it was so, because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in a narrow time ( for the people were distressed, then the people hid themselves in the caves, and in the thickets, and in the rocks, and in the high places, and in pits.
And he made the ephod thereof, and put it in his city, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah; and all Israel went there a harlot after it; which thing hath been a snare unto them, and to his house.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Bidkar the wife, Enving thy husband, that he may tell us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? is it not so?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; who also was gathered after him; and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented with him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away the necromancers, and the wizards, out of the land.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men undone; every one could stone stones in a corner breadth, and not miss.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his eyes.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did not I deliver you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And Gezer went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness, that nothing was left of all that belonged unto him; and he hath rewarded me evil for good.
For if the blood of bullocks and goats, and the ashes of the heifer sprinkled the unclean, and sanctify unto the cleansing of the flesh:
And David said unto Ahijah, If I have found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some city in the land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
And Saul's servants spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Doest it to be a light to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and departed from Saul.
And all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when the enemy the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul; and I saw him, even the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone away the way which Jehovah hath sent me, and have brought the king of Amalek king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekite.
And the weight of the golden rings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides ornaments, and a pillars, and purple garments that was upon the kings of Midian, and beside the chains that were about their camels' necks.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron; ( now Hebron the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba); and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him a king.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto Shebna, Behold, there came the people down from the top of the mountains. And Shebna said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.
Him therefore I hope to send straightway; and straightway I shall see how it will go with me.
And Saul sent messengers unto the house of David to watch him, and to slay him in the morning. And Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life to night, thou shalt be slain.
And they tarried until they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the ointment; therefore they took a key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead upon the earth.
And as Samuel offered up the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And he smote the tower of Peniel, and slew the men of the city.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Boaz.
And when the Spirit of God came upon Saul, when he heard these tidings, his wrath was kindled greatly.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude were melted away, and they hasted to beat one another.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, and said, There was a son, the son of the freewoman, because he had taken his wife, and gave her to his neighbor. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
But if ye will yet do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And he said, Let me now now, for our family hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me now now, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not to the king's table.
Saying, Verily I will bless thee, And I will multiply thee.
And when Moses had spoken every commandment unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood of bullocks, and of goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book, and all the people,
And he went up from thence to Peniel, and spake unto them likewise: and the men of Peniel answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered him.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was to Sisera, which dwelt in the summer of the nations.
And David abode his servants with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
Blessed be thy counsel, and blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and avenge me with my hand.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they smote of the people, and killed, as at other times, in the highways, of which one went up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
And unto the second priest, the second priest, the second priest, every year, the second priest, the high priest, the high priest, the high priest, the high priest, the high priest, the chief priest, the son of Israel, the son of Israel, the son of Israel, the son of Israel, the son of Israel, the second priest, the high priest, the high priest, the high priest, the chief priest, the second priest, the second priest, the priest
And Samuel said unto Saul, Abide, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
And his father in law, the damsel's father, hid him; and he abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we beseech thee, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.
And she shall not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her, let her take her heed.
If therefore any comfort in Christ, if any man love of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any man and compassion,
And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, and host against war.
And I will go out, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the house, and set them in the chief place among those that were bidden, which were about thirty persons.
And thou shalt not yet while yet I live, even the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I die not.
Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeketh to dwell in the house of Saul, to destroy the city for my sake.
And when the transgressors and the Anakim fled, he pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
Then said they, What shall be the trespass offering which we shall return unto him? They answered, five golden gold of gold, and five golden courses, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon your lords.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the anointed of Jehovah, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
So David went, and the six hundred men that were with him, and came unto the valley, or, whither they that were left behind remained.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new cords that never were taken, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
