And it came to pass, before the fat, before the fat was burnt, that the servant of the priest should come, and say unto the man that offereth the offering, Give me me of the flesh, to boil for the priest: he hath no taste of bread baken in water, but thou wouldest eat it not.
And Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, being troubled with fear.
And they passed over, and went, and the sun went upon them by Gibeah, which is to Benjamin.
Then said Saul unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod which was in my hand; and, behold, I must die.
So Saul took him away from him, and made him a captain over a thousand men, and went out, and came in before the people.
And David answered, What have I done now? I ask a question.
And when he was manifested, as he was reproved, both to shame and to tribulations; and there was much workmen with them that were baptized in this way.
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered into the stronghold of the house of Siloam.
And Ezekiel said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands.
And turn ye not aside: for ye shall go after vain things, which can not profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
For this reason he shall offer sacrifices for the people, as well as for himself.
And he said unto him, We are passing from Bethlehem Judah unto the mount country of Ephraim; I am from thence, and I went to Bethlehem Judah: I go into the house of Jehovah; and there is none that hath taken me into his house.
And Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of his host was unto Sisera, who dwelt in the summer of the nations.
But all Israel and Judah loved David: for he went out, and came before them.
There remaineth then a continual place unto the people of God.
Awake, awake, and Deborah; awake, awake, sound a song: arise, and draw forth thy captivity, and lead thy captivity, thou son of meeting.
And the people went out of the camp of the Philistines in three courses: the one went on the way to Ophrah unto the land of Libnah.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David, The king desireth no dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And when he was come, he sat by the way of the way watching: and his heart was afraid for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told the gospel, there was a great cry.
And war came again; and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote them, so that they fled before him.
and we smote the south part of the land of the Cherethites, and on the land that is Judah's, and in the south of Caleb; and we put lad on the fire.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was unto Sisera, who dwelt in the summer of the nations.
who ministered unto a example and shadow of heavenly things. As it was answered unto Moses, when he was to finish the tabernacle, behold, he saith, that thou make all things according to the pattern which was shewed thee on the mount.
And as they went up the mountain to the city, they found young damsels going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And inasmuch as it is not without an oath, ( for the rest hath been made priests without an oath;)
And Saul said, No man shall die this day, because Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
In those days, when there was no king in Israel, there was a Levite abiding beyond mount Ephraim, who took himself a concubine out of Beth-lehem Judah.
Shall the rulers of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I pray thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
Therefore, saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, though I say that thy house and thy father's house would walk before me for ever; but now, saith Jehovah, far be it from me; for they that honour me will I honour; but they that despise me, I will make reproach.
And the Philistines looked upon him, and saw David, and despised him: for he was a child, and white colour.
And the king sat at his seat, as beforetime by the wall, and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat beside Saul; but David's place was empty.
But I trust in the Lord that I also will shortly come.
And she said, O my lord, as thy soul is alive, my lord, I am that woman, who besought the Lord by thy side:
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp: and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.
For in Thessalonica once, and even twice, ye sent unto me for my need.
And so was so fearful, and Moses said, I am greatly afraid and full of trembling.
And when David saw that Saul was gone out to seek his life, David was in the wilderness of Ziph at Hor-kiln.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the thorn, and taught the men of Succoth.
Behold, all ye, O children of Israel, Consider and give counsel hither.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred virgins, who knew not man by lying with him; and they brought them to the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Beth-zar.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And a prophetess spake in her heart, and her lips was moved: but her voice was not heard at all. And when she had said, she said,
And Ezekiel sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?
And Saul dwelt in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate, which is in Magah; and the people with him were about six hundred men.
For to walk against his commandment, is as the wickedness of those that divine, and terrible to worship incense: because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath set thee from thy place as king.
Wherefore also I have lent unto Jehovah all the days of his life, he shall be lent unto Jehovah. And they worshipped Jehovah there.
But when Jesus had made one oblation for ever, he stood at the right hand of God;
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to many multitude of angels;
who, being in the form of God, did not consider robbery with God;
And the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed on the north; and they said unto them, Why hast thou passed over to fight against the children of Ammon, and have not called us to go with thee? we will burn thy house round about thee.
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that may abound unto your account.
And at that time, when Elisabeth sat in his stead, his eyes were dim so that he could not see;
And thou shalt see the affliction of my habitation, in all the substance that I will give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And yet again, let them yet believe, that there shall be a casting away of those things which are made, that the things which are made, that there may be that which can not be shaken.
Be not anxious: but in everything of prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your supplications be made known unto God.
As he saith in another place, Thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchizedek.
And he took his army, and divided it into three companies, and laid a ambush in the field. And when the people came out of the city, he arose and set upon them.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, and Abimelech hired with them vanity and wanton men; and they followed him.
Remember them that lead you, who spake unto thee the word of God, whose faith is considering the thought of the flesh;
So Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Moses was faithful in all his house for a servant, for a testimony to the things that would be spoken.
And Jehovah said unto him, But I will be with thee, and thou shalt afflict the Midianites, as if they are one man.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give cakes of bread unto my people; for they are weary, and I will walk after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah: come down, and bring it up unto you.
who, being washed, his glory, and his substance, and his substance, and by the word of his power, hath made by himself the purification of sins, set himself down on the right hand of the greatness on high.
Forasmuch as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also also took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him who had the power of death, which is, the devil.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpah.
And the children of Benjamin went out to meet the host, and they drew them out of the city, and began to vex the people, as beforetime by the way, by the way that goeth up to Beth-el, the other to Gibeah; and in the field there were about thirty men of Israel.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man to his tent; and there was a very great slaughter; and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath borne childless, thy mother shall be childless among women. And Samuel cut him in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
but we can not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife unto the daughters of Benjamin.
But Christ being raised up the high priest to come unto a greater and perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building;
And in the same way ye shall rejoice, and partake in my joy.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou weep for Saul, and I will reject him from the king of Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee unto Jesse the Beth-kmite: for I have seen among his sons for myself a king.
For Jehovah will not cast away his people for his great name's sake; for it hath pleased Jehovah to make you his people.
For your perfecting in the first day from the first day until now.
And the servants of Ahijah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? Is it not for this man that they sung in the dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
who served a scab and the shadow of the heavenly things, as Moses was warned when he was about to accomplish the tabernacle; for he saith, See to it, that thou make all things according to the pattern which was showed thee in the mount.
When he restored the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to a silversmith, who made an graven image and a molten image out of it: it was in the house of Micah.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; for the men of Israel gave to Benjamin, because they trusted the ambush whom they had set against Gibeah.
And Saul was very wroth, and was displeased him, and he thought, saying, They have seen me ten thousand thousands; but unto me they have thought unto thousands: what can he have the kingdom?
And David went to the other side, and stood on the top of the mount afar off; and the way was great between them.
not according to the covenant that I made unto their fathers in day of my taking their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not continue in my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
And the Gaserpent were told, saying, The son is come hither. And they compassed the place, and lay in wait for him all night at the gate of the city gate. They kept silence all night, saying, We will wait until the morning light, and then will we kill him.
And the Holy Spirit also beareth us witness: for what was said,
But ye know his opinion, that, as a child with a father, he served with me for the gospel.
And Joseph's house went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel; and Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped by Korah; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Then said the elders of Jabesh unto him, Give us for us seven days, that we may send men to every one of Israel: and if none help, we will come out unto thee.
Have more tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world,
And when he had set the lamps on fire, he let them go into the ears of the Philistines, and burned up the lamps, and also the grain, with the vineyards and the olive.
And they said, Who is of all the tribes of Israel, that came not up to the Lord to Mizpah; and, behold, the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead were not found in the army.
If ye endure correction, God will deal with you as with children; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
And Saul said unto his servant, Thy counsel is good; come, let us go. And they went into the city where the man of God was.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armour, Come, let us go over to the camp of these uncircumcised; it may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint on Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us as all the nations.
neither did they show favor to the house of Baal ( that is, that is, according to all the good that he had done for Israel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, whom I have not rejected from Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and come, that I may send thee to Jesse the Gilonite; for I have nourished me king among his sons.
and he took up a wild ass' a ass, and a serpent, which he saw upon the ground, and slew a thousand men with it.
And Hamor the son of Hassenuah went out, and stood at the gate into the gate: and Abimelech and his people arose from the place where they had waited.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing before.
For if the first was without spot, yet was not stayed for a second.
And Deborah, and Bered, and Bered, the son of Nimshi.
Salute all your princes, and all the saints. They also from Italy salute you.
And Jonathan went up on his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew them after him.
And if a man touch his enemy, shall he deliver him safe? so shall ye be accepted of Jehovah, for that which thou hast done for me this day.
And the Philistines came together to fight upon Israel, and three thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people of people, as the sand of the sea: and they came up, and encamped at Michmash, to the east of Beth-aven.
And David girded his sword above his youth, and began to go; for he did not try. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these, for I had not tried. And David turned them from him.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul served Jehovah.
I am pricked, and exhort your own mind, to be of the same mind in the Lord;
Now Saul came from the field, and drove the oxen before him; and he said, Wherefore are the people weeping? And they told him what the men of Jabesh had said.
Also now stand, and see this great thing which Jehovah hath done before your eyes.
For every house is builded by one; but he that built all things is God.
And Abdon the son of Achbor, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.
And when the men of Ashdod saw this manner of plague, he said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is heavy upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
having nothing through jealousy, nor through pride, but in the meekness of one that partake to be better than himself;
But this is that we will do unto Gibeah: We will go up against it by the decision of Jehovah.
Bring not forth words very proud words; Let no pride go forth out of thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, whose works are not weighed.
And Saul knew the voice of David, and said, Is this thy voice, David, David? And David said, My voice, my lord, O king.
And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel was polluted with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And they smote Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all mighty and able men; none escaped.
For if the first were without spot, a place was not sought for a second.
And Saul went into his house unto Gibeah; and the people went with him, whose heart God had touched.
And after this he loved a woman that dwelt in the valley of Cushan, and she was called Sharezer.
And he said, Behold, I am, for thou didst call me. And when thou didst understand that Jehovah called the child, and he said unto Samuel, Go, and sleep; and if he shall call thee any more, thou shalt say, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. And Samuel went and slept in his stead.
And the men of Israel were grieved that day; for Saul had charged the people, saying, Cursed is the man that eateth any bread until it is even; and I am judged of mine enemies. And none of the people ate bread.
And he shall take the tithe of your flock, and ye shall be his servants.
And it came to pass, when he heard the noise of the crying, that he said, What is the noise of this uproar? And the man hasted, and came and told,
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, which is good for you, who ruled over you seventy men, all the sons of Jerubbesheth, or the ruler over you man? and ye shall remember that I am your bone and your flesh.
And Jehovah will also give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me; and the host of Israel shall be Jehovah delivered into the hand of the Philistines.
for the carcase of the beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for a sin-offering, shall be burnt without the camp.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? far from it, O Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
Let not my lord take heed unto this evil man, the Carmelite; for as his name is, so is he. The name of Nabal is his name, and folly is with him: but I, thy servant, saw not the young men whom thou sentest.
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tasklabor, and did not utterly drive them out.
And the trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive of the olive, Thou didst test over us.
For they also suffered us for a short time, as it seemed good to them; but he worketh it for us, that we may be holy as he is.
And as soon as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this is judged,
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
Thou shalt make the graven images and the graven images of thy wares to destroy the land, and give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he shall lighten his hand upon you, and upon thy gods, and upon thy land.
And his mother's brethren spake all these words concerning him to all the lords of Shechem: and they laid up Abimelech: for they said, He is our brother.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders, whose days were prolonged after Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
Wherefore ye shall make the images of your wares, and the images of your plowshares that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he shall lighten his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
And after he came, Jair the Gileadite, who was the judge over Israel two and twenty years.
And roughly said unto her, If thou goest with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul heard, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take a heifer out of the herd with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; Thou gavest him a crown of glory and honor, And madest him ruler over all the works of thy hands:
And they smote that day the Philistines from Ezion-geber to the ground; and the people were wearied exceedingly.
by whom this corruptible body of us shall be transformed into the likeness of the body of his glory, according to the measure of the working wherewith he is able to put all things under himself.
And he said, His name is sure: I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah. Sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Jonathan gave his arms to the lad, and said unto him, Go, and carry them into the city.
So then, my beloved and my beloved brethren, my joy and my crown, stand firm in the Lord, beloved friends.
Now the first covenant did ordinances and the holy sanctuary.
She shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither shall she drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her shall she keep.
The kings came, they fought; then the kings of Canaan fought; at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, they took no spoil in silver.
But Eshton went after the chariot, and the host as far as the oppressed of the nations; and all the army of murmuring was slain by the sword; and there was none left.
And he brought him into his house, and gave food unto the asses; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
So that the pattern of the heavenly shall be made clean with these: but the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
And now, I pray, I pray thee, in the hearing of the people, saying, Whosoever is terrible and trembling, let him return and depart from the mount Gilead. And of twenty thousand men returned, and ten thousand remained.
And David said unto Abishai, Slay him not: for who shall put forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and shall be guiltless?
And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, that the Philistines fought against Israel: but the voice of Jehovah heard that day the Philistines were afraid, and they departed before Israel.
And Abraham called Isaac unto Isaac, when he was tempted: and he with whom the promise was made up the only son of his own body,
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me from the sore of the lion and bare, shall save me from the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And a man of Benjamin ran from the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day with his garments and the earth upon his head.
For as for our own daughters we can not give them, being bound with an oath and a curse, whereby we said, Cursed be he that shall give Benjamin any of his daughters to wife.
For ye have compassion on me in my chains, and rejoiced with the taking of your substance, knowing that ye have for yourselves a good possession and a patience in heaven.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up; behold, I will give the land into his hand.
But the olive tree said unto them, Shall I give up my wealth of oil, whereby men give glory to God, and go over the trees?
Moreover I count all things to be but loss for the excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord: for whom I suffer the loss of all things, and count them, but as dung, that I may gain Christ:
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
and said unto him, Thus saith sharply, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon:
And the princes of Succoth answered and said, Peradventure the hands of the hands of Shua 'hands, and Shelah, are in thy hand; and now thou sayest that we should give bread to thy host.
Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God, and brought it from Kadesh to Ashdod.
Judah took Gaza and its border, Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
Then said the elders of the congregation, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
being circumcised on the eighth day, of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, a Pharisee, a Pharisee;
And Samuel told all things, and did not hold back. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do what seemeth good to him.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
And Benjamin returned, and gave them the women whom they had shed from the women of Jabesh-gilead; but yet there were not enough for them.
Brethren, I regard not myself as yet, but one thing I do.
And the women sang as they played, and said, I Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
I thank my God in all remembrance of you.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned. Do thou unto us according to all that is good in thy sight: only deliver us, we pray thee, this day.
And David girded his sword upon his dress, and sought to go; for he had not yet tried. And David said unto Saul, I can not go in these; for I have never tempted. And David smote him.
And when he came over the Jordan, he passed over, he and the three hundred men, who were with him, wearied, and pursued.
And Jesse called, Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this one.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, that David took his harps and mocked: and behold, he came to Saul, and he recovered; and the demon departed from him.
Give not up your hope that shall be greatly recompensed.
So Abimelech dwelt in Ezion-geber; and Menahem and his brethren dwelt from Shechem in Shechem.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines, and save the foreskins of Keilah.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the camp of these uncircumcised; it may be that Jehovah will work for us: for there is no restraint to Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had smitten the South and the lad; and when they smote Ziklag, they burnt it with fire.
And the child came unto the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot; and Jonathan called after the child, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And he said unto his lad, Run, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, the arrows that I am about. The young man ran, and he shot the arrow, and went over him.
And they said unto Ezekiel, Come, and come thou to us for the captain, and fight against the children of Ammon.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish spake and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? and now ye know what to do.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him exceedingly, and made him his armorbearer.
And it came to pass, when he had come to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, were weary, yet pursued.
If he be able to have a fight with me, and overcome me, then we will be your servants: but if I be able to overcome him, then thou shalt be our servants, and do work for us.
For we have not a high priest not to repent with our weaknesses, but tempted in all things in like manner, without sin.
There is none holy as Jehovah; For there is none beside thee; Neither is there any rock like our God.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east, gathered together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribes, and to his family; and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, shall keep your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Now unto God and Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast forgiven thee the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath set thee out of thy stead king over Israel.
For whom Jehovah loveth, he chasteneth; And every son whom he receiveth will be guilty.
And they believed in David, saying, He hath made himself utterly abhorred among his people in Israel, and shall be my servant for ever.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And his father 'father's father kept him there; and he tarried with him three days: and they ate and drank, and tarried there.
And she laid up a ambush in the inner chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son; and he brake the cords, as the bands of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire; so his strength was not known.
And they waited a long time till they were ashamed; and seeing that no man opened the door, they took a key: and opened, they found their lord lying dead upon the ground.
And the men of the Danites were six hundred men of Mareshah, and Eshtaol, armed with instruments of war.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and long, my joy and my crown; stand firm in the Lord, my beloved.
Now therefore rise up early in the morning with the servants of thy lord that have come with you; and when ye arise early in the morning, and have light, depart.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And Samuel took the vial of the oil, and poured upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath appointed thee for his inheritance?
And when he had given the offering, he sent away the people that had come with the offering.
And therefore hearken unto their voice: and thou shalt surely hearken unto them; and thou shalt show them the king's customs, which shall rule over them.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day; and Samuel rose up, and went to Ramoth-gilead.
And Samuel lay till the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show the vision to come.
And Saul said unto David, Thou canst not go against this of the Philistines to fight with him: for thou art but a child, and he a man of war from his youth.
I will not destroy the nations that Joshua left, when he died.
And we saw that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
And the children of Benjamin dwelt out of the city, and seeing their enemies fled, and pursued after them a long way, and smote some of them, as they had done the first and second day, while they fled by two ways, whereof one went up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah; and they slew thirty men.
And when Samuel had made all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Abimelech sat down in the head of the kingdom, but the Horites and his companions out of the city, and would not suffer them to dwell in it.
And the people came unto the forest, and, behold, the honey dropped, and there was none that moveth his hand unto his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And they were not kind unto the house of Nisroch the house of Jerubbesheth, according to all that he had done good to Israel.
For they that say such things declare that they seek a country for themselves.
But I would ye know, brethren, that the things which befell me have fallen out rather unto the end of the gospel;
This is the unbare strait, yet much more past, having taken away the captivity of the things that are shaken, as of the things that are made, that the things which are not shaken may remain.
And the kine went on the way on the way to Beth-shemesh, and on the way of the highway, as they went; and they turned not aside to the right hand nor to the left; and the princes of the Philistines walked after them up to the border of Beth-shemesh.
And the men of Israel were joined together that day; and Saul charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that shall eat bread until even, until I be avenged of mine enemies. And none of the people ate any food.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's flock at Beth-lehem.
For this cause he also is made of a new covenant, that, having been put to death for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, the called might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
And Jonathan answered Saul, saying, David earnestly asked that I go to Beth-lehem.
And David arose, and went, he and his men, and smote of the Philistines two hundred men: and David brought their course, and they delivered them in full unto the king, that he might be the king's son: and Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
The one hanged on the north side against Michmash; and the one on the south side over against Gibeah.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me, and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall deliver up.
And he brought the offering unto Eglon king of Moab, who was a very fat man.
And when Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, For this I will covenant with you, that every right eye shall be plucked out, and I will put it a reproach upon all Israel.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set in liberty: with whom, if he come soon, I will see you.
Give my joy, that ye may be of one mind, having the same love, being of one accord, being of one accord, master of him that is minded of him.
For God worketh in you both to do and to work, for his good pleasure.
For many walk, of whom I have told you many times ( and now tell you weeping, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ.
then shall that which cometh forth from the door of my house to meet me, when I shall return in peace from the children of Ammon, be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
And he brought a kid of the flock, and the drink-offerings, and put them upon a rock, offering unto Jehovah, who doeth wonders; and he and his wife looked upon.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And it shall be, in the morning, when the sun arose, thou shalt arise early, and thrust up the city; and, behold, he and the people that shall go with him shall go out unto thee; and thou shalt do unto him as thy hand shall find.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David hasted to go away from Saul's face: and Saul and his men were beset David and his men, to catch them.
And he sent messengers into all Manasseh, and they also followed him: and other men came to Asher, and Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they came to meet him.
And all the inhabitants of the tower of Shechem heard of it, and went into the inner chamber of the house of the rock.
And they set his weapons the house of Ashtaroth, and set his body on the wall of Beth Shan.
And it was so that they feared that Moses said, I am afraid and trembling.
For this cause we should give heed more to the things which we have heard, lest we should be offended in any way.
And it came to pass, that the three hundred and three hundred hearkened upon the trumpets; and every man's sword turned to Jehovah against his brother throughout all the host; and the host fled unto the front of the ascent of Adummim, to the border of Abel.
And Zeresh the Edomite, who was set over the servants of Saul, said, I saw the son of Jesse come to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And the weight of the golden rings which he requested was one thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the hooks, and the chains, and the purple garments that was upon the kings of Midian, and beside the chains that were about their camels' necks.
And Shema the son went to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
Let us then sanctify God in all times through him, that is to say, The fruit of the lips giveth witness to his name.
And Enoch said unto the prophetess, Behold, ye have mocked me with vain words: now say, How shouldest thou be bound in bonds?
For God worketh in you, both to will and to accomplish according to his good will.
This is the sign for you that shall come unto your two sons: the same shall ye die in the same day.
And we saw that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
And he returned to Ramah, because his house was there, and there he judged Israel, and built an altar unto Jehovah there.
Now therefore, hear, I pray thee, my lord the king, the words of thy servant: if Jehovah stir thee up against me, let him accept of sacrifice: but if the children of men are cursed in the sight of Jehovah, who have cast me out this day, that I should not dwell in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being loosed unto his death;
And the chief of the Philistines, the Philistines, that had never been dried up, did the princes of the Philistines, which had never been dried up.
And the woman came in the dawning of the day, and fell at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul were lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take, I pray thee, one of the young men with thee, and arise, go after the asses.
And Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Behold, Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance, and thou shalt deliver his people out of the hand of their enemies, that are round about them. And this shall be a sign unto thee, that God hath anointed thee to be prince.
And after the second curtain a tabernacle, which is called holy,
but he, when he had offered one sacrifice for ever for ever, sat on the right hand of God;
If thou sendest back the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty, but render unto him what thou owest for sin, and then thou shalt be healed; and thou shalt know that his hand departeth not from thee.
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me; but his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
Let our lord command thy servants that are before thee; let them seek a man skilful in the harp: and when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, he shall play upon it, and thou shalt feel good.
And the Spirit of Jehovah journeyed to set him out of the same time, as far as Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
Yet they hearkened not unto their judges; for they played the harlot unto other gods, and bowed themselves down to them: they turned aside quickly out of the way wherein their fathers walked, to obey the commandments of Jehovah; they did not so.
And on the day of the new moon, the second day, there was no one in the throne of David. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why hath the son of Jesse not come to the feast yesterday or to-day?
And the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, and said, The ark of the God of Israel abideth not with us; for his hand is hard upon us, and our god is hard.
And it came to pass after ten days, that Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died.
And the name of the man was the name of Nabal; and the name of his wife was Abigail: and she was a man discreet and fair woman; but her husband was sick, and sick, and sick. And he was of the house of Caleb.
They shall perish, but thou shalt prolong still; And they shall grow old as a garment.
Then came up the name of Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the forest, in the hill of the heavens, the south of the Arabah?
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
and both straw and provender are for our asses, and also bread and wine there are for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the soothsayers, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us how we shall send it to its place.
For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because ye heard that he had been sick.
And Er the son of Obed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and Shechem took courage unto his coming.
And by faith, even Sarah conceived, and she bare a child when she was past age, seeing she was faithful that had promised.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they were not escaped that had refused him that had refused the oracles upon earth, much more we that turn away from heaven.
Now Hanun, she spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore she thought she was drunken.
And his friend answered and said, Surely the sword of Joash, the son of Joash, the men of Israel; into their hands God hath delivered all the host of Midian.
Woe is ours! who shall save us out of the hand of these gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians in the wilderness.
and make straight paths for your feet, that which is lame may not be condemned, but rather be healed.
And Jehovah came and spake before, and Samuel, and Samuel. Then Samuel answered, saying, Thou shalt say, Jehovah; for thy servant's ears are open.
Then Saul went down to the wilderness of Adullam, and took with him three thousand chosen of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Adullam.
And the mountains trembled before Jehovah, before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Samuel died, and all Israel gathered together, and mourned for him, and buried him in his house in Ramah. So David arose, and went down into the wilderness of Paran.
through which we shall be sanctified through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And there was a man from the servants of Saul in that day, and kept close before Jehovah, whose name was Meshullemeth the Edomite, the head of Saul's shepherds.
And they buried their bones in the earth under a tree in Jabesh; and they ate seven days.
And if they say, Come up against us, and we shall go up: for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand, and this is the sign of us.
And it came to pass, when he saw that he was the angel of Jehovah, and said, Alas, my lord Jehovah; for now I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
Or they would not have ceased to be offered, because the worshippers, having been spent once, would have had no more conscience of sins?
to try Israel by them, whether they keep the way of Jehovah, to walk therein, as their fathers kept or not.
But he, because he liveth for ever, his priesthood hath changed.
And we saw that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
God also beareth them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
And they indeed for a few days, according to their own pleasure, instructed us: but he for our profit, that we might receive his holiness.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines for twenty years.
Then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in a troop.
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and made a great slaughter of them: and David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee over his inheritance?
Then they asked him to inquire of Jehovah, that they might know whether their journey should be prosperous, and the thing should be fulfilled.
So Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Abimelech went again to the giant; and Shobach sent Sharezer and his brethren away, and would not leave them alive in Shechem.
And Gilead took the passages of the Jordan unto Ephraim; and it came to pass, that when any of the inhabitants of Ephraim say, Let me pass over. And the men of Gilead say unto him, Thou art a Roman mite? And he said, No.
and the second priest only the chief priest, but the chief priest, not apart from blood, which he offereth for himself, and the people repent.
of teaching, and of laying on hands, and from resurrection of dead, and of eternal judgment.
And it came to pass, when their heart rejoiced, that they said, Call for Shema, and he will play before us. And they called a son out of the house of bondage, and he went before them, and set him between the pillars.
Let your gentleness be known unto all men; The Lord is at hand.
It is the same unto me, if I look down on or honorable; in all things in all things I have hidden the mystery of how to be full, and how to go without meat, how to have riches and needy.
For your fellowship is in the gospel of Christ from the first day until now.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it:
And they came to their brethren at Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brethren said unto them, What report ye?
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
And when Jehovah raised up unto them judges, then was Jehovah with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repented Jehovah, because of their groaning from the presence of their oppressors, and of them that put them away.
seeing that he would suffer many times from the foundation of the world: but now he was seen once at the end of the ages for the captivity of sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and the gods of the Syrians, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they left Jehovah, and served him no more.
And all the people stood, and said, We will not return to our tents, neither shall any of us go into his own house.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What mean these men? and Joab said to the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me for days and years? I have not found any more threatening in him from the day of his grave unto this day.
Then the woman came to Saul, and knew that he was greatly afraid: and she said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath hearkened unto thee, and I have given my life for my life: I have hearkened unto thy words that thou hast spoken unto me.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good; and ye are still: be not slothful to go to possess the land.
The men of Gibeah rose up against me, and compassed the house by night: they thought to slay me; and they ravished my concubine, and she was dead.
Now I rejoice in the Lord exceedingly, that now your thought is prolonged for me, as ye did also think; but ye were careless.
And the name of Saul's wife was Achsah the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And ye bear us also the Holy Spirit; for he hath said before,
For in that he suffered being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
Now David was the son of that pertained to Ephrath Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man was old in the days of Saul, advanced in years among men.
So the prophetess, when she had eaten, had eaten in Shiloh; and, behold, the priest, the priest sitting upon a troop, before the door of the house of Jehovah.
Nay, my sons, the report is not good that I hear the people of Jehovah.
Do nothing according to strife, or according to vain eyes; but in meekness that looketh to one another than yourselves,
And he said unto them, Are ye not the men that hated me, and cast me out of the house of my father's house, and now ye are come to me to be judged by reason?
And he said, My sin is great: yet glorify me now before the princes of my people, and before Israel; and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah your God.
And he changed his way before them, and was mad in their hands, and he smote the doors of the gate, and his arrow fell down upon his beard.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord persecute his servant? for what have I done? what evil is in my hand?
And being made perfect, he became to all that obey him eternal salvation.
And David pursued, he, and four hundred men, and two hundred men that were too more, that had been too discouraged to pass over the brook of Azaliah,
For if we keep the riches of the faith which we had at the beginning, even until the end, we have a part with Christ;
And when the Sidonians, the Amalekite, and the Meunim, they cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would I not tell it thee?
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in a troop.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? if Saul hear, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which seemeth right to thee, but not until thou hast taken him from the bosom; only the Lord will do as he hath said. So the woman waited there, and gave her son milk, until he was old enough of old.
And he said unto him, What is thy name, that if thy word shall come to pass, we may honor thee?
He had a son, whose name was Saul, a man's servant, a servant; and there was not one than the children of Israel a better man than he; he was from his own shoulders and upward, he was above any of the people.
where your fathers tempted me, trying me, and saw my works forty years.
Jehovah be merciful unto me, that I may not stretch out my hand upon Jehovah's anointed. But now, take the spear, that is at his head, and let us go.
And she said, Let thy servant find favour in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad.
When ye go, ye came unto a people confident, and the land wide on two hands; for God hath given it into your hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the land.
Seeing then it is that some should enter into it: and they, unto whom it was first preached, came not because of unbelief.
And the Philistines came up, and encamped in Judah; and they ran into a troop.
And the congregation sent twelve thousand men of valor, and charged them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead by the mouth of the sword, the women and the little ones.
So then, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and my crown, so stand ye in the Lord, beloved.
Then the priests of Dagon, and all that came into the house of Dagon, did not tread on the threshold of Dagon, in Ashdod, unto this day.
And when he saw her rest, he said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But when she had no answer, seeing she was dead, he took her up, and laid her upon his ass, and returned to his house.
And Michal Saul's daughter loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And Saul said, Then say unto David, The king hath no desire for a hundred's sake, but only for the king's sake the king's sake, that the king may recover the better of his enemies. But it was in Saul's mind that David might die by the hand of the Philistines.
Not that I seek, but I seek fruit to your account.
but the Amorite would dwell in the hill-country of Gihon, in Aijalon, and in tumults: nevertheless the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, that they were subject to tasklabor.
And he went every year about to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel in the Millo.
My sons, for it is no good report that I hear: ye make the people of Jehovah transgress.
That we may surely say, Jehovah is my helper, And I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
But the men would not hearken unto him: so the man took his concubine, and brought her out unto them; and they knew her, and laid her all night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her go.
And it came to pass, when the time was done to the fords of the Jordan, that Ephraim was to return. And when any of the number of Ephraim came thither, he said, I pray you, let me go. The Gileadite said unto him, Art thou not? If he said, I am not.
And the three bands all heard upon their horns, and when they had broken the vessels, they took the fiery branches in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand ready for blowing, crying out, for Jehovah and for the plague.
For, as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people, and what they say unto thee, They have not turned away from thee; but they have turned away from me, and would not seek me king over them.
And they sat down together, and ate and drank. And the father of the damsel said unto his son in law, I beseech thee to tarry here to-day, and let us make merry together.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father shall certainly know that I have found favor in thine sight; and he said, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a way betwixt me and death.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled unto David, to the tent of Keilah, an ephod in his hand.
And Saul, and all the people with him, went together to the battle: and every man's sword turned against the man at his side, and there was a very great noise.
Which we have as the outward parts of the soul, sure and sure, and that entereth in even within the veil;
I speak not as for want: for I have learned, wherein I am, to be content therewith.
and every man shall gather themselves unto him, and every man that hath an oppressor, and every man bitter in soul; and he shall be over them for the head, and there are with him about four hundred men.
Let your life be without love of money, satisfied with meat: for he hath said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
And Jehovah made Israel safe that day; and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon: and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land into my place.
And there went out to meet a man, and said unto him, Come in unto me, my lord, come in, fear not. And he went in unto her tent, and covered her with a robe.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude were melted away, and they hasted to beat one another.
For he that is proving himself, he is able to save others when they are tempted.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse thy conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And he said unto him, Far be it; thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall not do anything great or small, nor open mine ear: therefore shall my father hide from me this thing? this is not this.
who through faith overcame kingdoms, fulfilled righteousness, and received that which was spoken, shut the mouth of lions;
And David said, Do not so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath delivered us, and delivered the troop which came against us into our hand.
And it came to pass, when the lad was gone, that David rose up from his place, which was toward the south, and fell upon his face to the ground, and worshipped thrice; and kissed one another, they wept together, but David.
Now the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, the multitude melted, and it went down, and was beaten down.
And Saul watched David from that day and forward.
And above it were the cherubim of glory set upon the mercy-seat, whereof it is not now able to speak.
then it shall be, that whatsoever shall come out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I shall return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
For only for bread, and for wine, and to drink, and the different things, and the ordinances of the outward things, even unto the time of setting judgment.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field, and they told Abimelech.
And he took a child of the men of Succoth: and he asked him the names of the princes and the elders of Succoth, and told him seventy seventy men.
And when they had come to an end, he sent away the tribute, and sent the people that took the tribute.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And the children of Israel did again evil before Jehovah after the death of the Lord.
And they said, We will gladly give them. And they spread out a garment, and cast every man a ring of his spoil.
And the seven kine stood by the way to Beth-shemesh; they passed by the way, and turned not to the right hand nor to the left; and the noise of their voice was called on the way; and the lords of the Philistines followed them, as far as the border of Beth-shemesh.
And all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Beth-el, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until evening; and they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And they said, Behold the feast of Jehovah is in Shiloh, which is to the north of Beth-el, the east of the highway, which goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and southward of Jokneam.
whose end is destroyed, whose God is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, they that devise of the earth.
And she called the lad, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he built unto Jehovah.
And the children of Benjamin said, They shall go before us as at the beginning. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and get them out of the city into the highways.
and they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses commanded; and he brought out the land of the three children of Anak, and drove them out thence.
And he commanded the men whom he sent, saying, Thus shall ye say unto all the men of Israel, Hath ye done this day as this day when the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day? Consider it, and repent it, and consider it.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, he said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet go out to fight against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I forbear? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow will I deliver him into thy hand.
And the sons of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no offering; But he held his peace.
And Micaiah said unto them, Let me now call a riddle unto you; if ye shall tell me unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find out, then I will give you thirty for you, and thirty changes of garments.
and having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant covered upon every part of gold, which was a golden pot, and the rod of Aaron, and the pillars of Aaron, and the tables of the covenant.
Let thy gentleness be made known unto all peoples; The Lord is nigh.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went out to war; and Jehovah delivered the Midianites, and smote the king of Mesopotamia, into his hand; and his hand prevailed against him,
And David came to the two hundred men that were sick to go after David, and whom they had caused to dwell in the brook of Azaliah, and went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and David drew near the people, and inquired of them of peace.
And roughly said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And we shall say that in Abraham, the Levite, who hath a right to take the tenth part, gave it.
And she called the lad, and said, The glory is departed from Israel, and gave diligence to the taking of the ark of God, and of her father-in-law and her husband.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah; do unto me according to that which is gone out of thy mouth: for Jehovah hath avenged thee upon thine enemies, even upon the children of Ammon.
And ye rise up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons upon one stone, and made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three divisions. And they came into the middle of the camp at the morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day. And it came to pass, that the rest were scattered, that there were no two of them left.
And he turned from him to another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.
And David ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and pulled it out of its sheath, and put him to death, and cut off his head with it: and the Philistines saw that their mighty men died, and fled.
because his heart was with you, and he was greatly troubled, because ye heard that he was sick.
and the princes in Issachar were with thah; and Issachar and Dedan; they were cast into the valley at his feet.
But God clave a hollow place that was in the jaws, and there came water in it; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof to be hewn down, which is in a troop unto this day.
For they indeed for a few days chastised us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
And Shema the son went down to the woman, and set a feast, as the way was among the young men.
In faith he kept the passover, and the blood of the blood, that the destroyer of the first-born might not touch them.
to appoint for himself captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; also to plow his plowing, and to reap his harvest; and to make instruments of his war, and with instruments of his chariots.
And Jonathan said, Far be it far from thee: for I know not that the evil hath been determined by my father to come upon thee, neither will I tell thee.
holding the word of life to my glory in the day of Christ; because I run not in vain, nor laboured in vain.
And Abel came to Mizpah unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
Now these are the nations, which Jehovah kept in the land for the counsel of Israel by them, all that had no respect of all the wars of Canaan;
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
For I am pressed by the two, having desire to depart, and to be with Christ: for it is far better.
Thou hast put all things under his feet: for in all things he hath done all things to him, he hath not left nothing under him: but now we see not all things under him,
And Jonathan said unto David, What doth thy soul say? and I will do it for thee.
And Agag the king of Amalek died, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And there was no smith found in the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that will do according to that which is in my heart and in my heart; I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before my anointed for ever.
And David took these words, and smote the king of Gath.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the staff which was in his hand, and came against the flesh, and against the unleavened things; and the fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh, and the unleavened bread; and the angel of Jehovah went out of his sight.
For nothing be careful, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known unto God.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
and see, my father, and see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew thee not, know and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou liest in wait for my life to take it.
And I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know the things concerning you.
Wherefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I know how it will go with me.
And I poured out the arrows of the arrows upon the side, and spread them out for myself.
And he judged Israel twenty and twenty years; and he died, and was buried in Jotbathah.
Let thy chastening be known unto all men; The Lord is at hand.
And where there is a remission of remission, there is no more a offering for sin.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up a saviour unto the children of Israel, and he saved them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Wherefore I ought to think for you all in this way, because I have ye in my heart; for in my bonds I have in my bonds, and in my striving before the judges of the gospel, shewing that it is true, ye all have with me in grace.
Ye have not multiplied, ye speak proudly, saying, The old that saith shall proceed out of your mouth: for the God of knowledge is the God of knowledge, and by him shall be weighed by him.
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, that which is well-pleasing before him, through Jesus Christ, to whom glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took the destruction of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and a strong substance.
As they were making their hearts glad, behold, the men of the city, some base fellows, compassed the house, beat at the door; and they spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring out the man that came into thy house, that we can have sex with him.
For a covenant of tumult, when men are dead, Seeing it is in no way of war, while the Chaldeans are dead.
In those days there was no king in Israel: there was a man, a Levite, who dwelt as a sojourner in the uttermost parts of mount Ephraim. And he took for himself a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah.
Thus was the Midianites subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more. And the land was in quietness forty years in the days of feasting.
And the set sign between the men of Israel and the ambush were that they should make a great cloud of smoke up out of the city.
And Samuel rose early to Saul in the morning, and it was told Samuel, saying, Saul is come into Carmel, and, lo, he set up a pillar to himself, and goeth round, and passeth down to Gilgal.
And the Levite, the husband of the slain woman, answered and said, I came unto Gibeah, which is of Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge in the night.
And all the sons of Benjamin that fell in that day were five and twenty thousand by wielding men; all these were able men.
Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the eternal covenant,
And he asked them, saying, Why do ye do all these things that I hear, and do evil with all these people?
Now therefore if thou hast done well, and without sin in making Abimelech king over you, and have dealt well with Baal, and with his house, and have made a good reward for him that fight for thee,
And when these signs come unto you, behold, thou takest the occasion that is offered unto you; for God is with you.
And another went on the way of Beth-horon: and another went by the mountain of the valley of Zeboim, toward the wilderness.
and I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my soul, and burn incense unto me, and to put the ephod upon me before me: and I gave unto thy father's house of all the sacrifices of the children of Israel.
They of the sons of Levi, that received the priest's office, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, which is of their brethren, though these came forth out of the body of Abraham;
Therefore said I, The Philistines will come down upon me unto Gilgal; and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah: I therefore have taken myself, and offered a burnt-offering.
And it came to pass, when I said, I would ask you: give me every man the rings of the spoil; for they had golden rings, because they were the Ishmeelites.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath, and had no more added to seek him.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be glad when I know how ye do.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
And the Ashdodites rose up early on the morrow; and, behold, reed fell on the face of the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and they took dagon, and put it back to its place.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah. Then Elkanah knew Hanun his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dancing, saying, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
As the ancient proverb saith, From the wicked, wickedness goeth out; But my hand shall not be against thee.
But with blood almost all things are purified according to the law; and there is no remission of persons.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent and with earth upon his head.
with his own company, when they were armed, and against the city, and against the other courses, they shall chase the enemies that were scattered about the field.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
Go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I am come down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: tarry ye seven days, until I come unto you, and show you what ye shall do.
It is so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they.
If one man sins against another, God will judge him; but if a man sins against Jehovah, who will make intercession for him? But they hearkened not to the voice of their father, because Jehovah had thought to slay them.
Behold, I am here: testify against me, before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken, and whom have I oppressed; whom have I broken, whom have I broken, and whose hand have I taken a ransom, and have hid mine eyes with it? and I will restore unto you.
And they passed through faith through the Red Sea as through the dry land, which the Egyptians had received a trial, were swallowed up;
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of Midian: and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
And Gilead dwelt on the other side of the Jordan, and Dan had made himself to ships: Asher dwelt on the sea shore, and dwelt in the feast.
There is an old saying, From the wicked cometh evil; But my hand shall not be lifted up against thee.
So Saul sent his keeper to the house of David to keep him, that he might be slain in the morning. And Michal David's wife had told him this, saying, Except thou save thyself this night, thou shalt surely die.
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept until they had no more tears.
so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
And all the men of Israel rose up from their places, and encamped in Baal Tamar: and the ambush of Israel commanded from their places, from the oaks of Gibeah.
and see, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then came out of the vineyards; and every man taketh his wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and it shall return to its place, and will not kill us, nor our people: for there was a plague of destruction throughout all the city, and the hand of God was there.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, bread of bread unto the people that follow me, for they are faint; and I will pursue after Zebah and as Zalmunna kings of Midian.
Beware lest there be any that lacketh the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness groweth up trouble, and many be defiled thereby;
And that man went up out of his city from time to return, to bow himself, and to sacrifice before Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh, and there two sons of Ish-bosheth, set the charge of the priesthood and Phinehas, priests to Jehovah.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
Now we will do this, if God will give us.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
By faith the walls of Jericho fell, they were about seven days.
And he spake unto the men of Peniel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Ask thy young men, and they tell thee, and the young men find favor in thine sight, for we have come upon a good day: give, I pray thee, that thy hand findeth, to thy servants, and to thy son David.
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not: but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox, and sheep, and camel and ass.
lest there be any fornicator, or profane, as Esau, who selleth his birthright,
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
For I have no one so of the same mind, who with the pure love is anxious for you.
Then said to him, Where is thy mouth, wherewith thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go out, I pray now, and fight with them.
But the Avvites dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: for they did not drive them out.
By faith Moses when he became great, and refused to be called the daughter of Pharaoh's daughter:
And Ezekiel vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt do all the children of Ammon into my hand?
And when he was gone, his servants came and saw that the door of the upper chamber were shut up. And they said, Surely he is covering his feet in the upper room.
Wherefore also there were born of one, and that of one dieth, as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand of the sea, which is by the sea-shore.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave alive a man among them. And they said, Do all that is good in thine eyes. And the priest said, Let us draw near unto God hither.
And he said unto them, What shall I have done what ye have done? Is not the cluster of the grapes of Ephraim better than the shouting of Abiezer?
But certain worthless fellows said, How could this man save us? They despised him, and brought him no present; but he held his peace.
And David said unto Ahijah, If I have found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some city in the land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
but ye have done well in my affliction.
And it shall be in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, ye shall rise early, and leap upon the city; and, behold, when he and the people that are with him come out against thee, then shall ye do unto them as ye shall find a occasion.
And he said unto him, Ah, O Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why is all this befallen us? and where all his signs which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up out of Egypt? and now Jehovah hath cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
and to them that were at Hormah, and in marriage, and in Jarmuth,
These are the nations, which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them ( that is, to try all them that knew not of the wars of Canaan;
Now therefore, what hast thou at hand? Give me five loaves, or whatsoever is here.
And he asked her water, and she gave him milk, and offered him butter in a platter fit for princes.
in times past the word of God unto our fathers through the prophets, in divers kinds, and in divers customs,
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Go up with me into my portion, and let us fight against the Canaanites; then I will go with you into your lot. And Simeon went with him.
And he went into the land of Heth, and built a city there, and called it Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And they went up, and encamped at Kiriath-jearim in Judah: therefore they called this place out of Dan unto this day; it is the west of Kiriath-jearim.
And Saul said, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee evil, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the foolish man, and have erred exceedingly.
And they turned back, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness: and upon the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who smote them with them to Geba, and slew two thousand more.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not according to thy words.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no bread here in hand; there is only holy bread; but if the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant for David's love for David.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill, and hallowed Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
Even so Christ also glorified himself, that he might be made a high priest: but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set in liberty; with whom, if he come soon, I will see you.
And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.
And when all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever; no, when Jehovah hath cut off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
And she called the name of jealousy, saying, The glory is gone out of Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law.
And David took the whole of the flock, and of the herd, and brought them before these cattle: and they said, This is David's spoil.
And the Philistines gathered together, and came and encamped at Shunem, so Saul gathered all Israel, and encamped in Gilboa.
For they could not endure what was commanded: If even an beast toucheth the mountain, it must be stoned.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but walk against his commandment, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you and against thy king for your destruction, as it was against your fathers.
And the hand of Jehovah was sore heavy against the river, and he destroyed them, and smote them with augury, both in Ashdod, and in the borders thereof.
And all the host cut down every one branch for himself, and followed Abimelech, and put them against the band, and set the band on fire on them: and all the men of the tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, and he die; because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and hath hewn down the Asherah thereof.
And it came to pass, as they were going down in the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Speak unto the servant to go before us, and pass on: but thou shalt stand still a while, that I may tell thee the word of Jehovah.
And ye shall take the ark of Jehovah, and put it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold, which ye have returned unto him, shall be a trespass-offering; and ye shall put it out on the side, and shall send it away, and it shall go.
According to all their works, they have done from the day that I brought them out of Egypt unto this day: as they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so shall they also serve thee.
And Achan said unto them, If thou doest, surely surely I will take vengeance upon you, and after that I shall cease.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And when he came, behold, there sat upon a throne by the way of the way watching: for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
Remember your princes, O men that spake unto thee the word of God, and considered the end of their way, even their faith.
And he went thither unto Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and went on, and prophesied, until he came to Ramoth-gilead.
Rejoice in the Lord always; And again I say, Rejoice.
But a man came to Saul, saying, Escape and come; for the Philistines have fought against the land.
So David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Ahijah the son of meeting, king of Gath.
I will surely bless thee, saying, Surely I will bless thee, and multiply thee.
And the children of Benjamin came at that time, and wives were given them of the daughters of Jabesh-gilead: but they found no other, whom they might give in like manner.
and turn ye not away; for vain things that can not profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go out into the field. And they two went out into the field.
And when I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then ye shall blow the trumpets together upon every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and the plague.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and said, He is sick.
And Shema the son went down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah; and they came to the vineyards of Timnah: and, behold, a young lion roared against him.
And to whom he sware, that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that were disobedient?
And she was deeply troubled: so she prayed unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Shepham, and blow the trumpet, and called together the house of Abiezer, to follow him.
And it came to pass, between the passage where Jonathan sought to go over to the camp of the Philistines, there was a rock of flint on one side, and a rock on the other side: and the name of the one was called Baal, and the name of the other.
And when Samuel saw Saul, then Jehovah answered him, Behold, the man of whom I have spoken unto thee shall forbid my people.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, there met him a company of prophets; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, thy going in to Shur, which is before Egypt.
So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have returned the ark of Jehovah: come down, and take it up to yourselves.
And Midian, and Amalek, and all the children of the east, lay in the valley as locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand upon the sea-shore for multitude.
that ye may not be condemned, but imitators of them that possess the promises through faith and patience.
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What mean these men? and Abishai said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
But I have all things, and abound: I am filled, having received from the way of a perfumer the things that came from you, a sweet savour, a acceptable and acceptable sacrifice unto God.
And the thorn said unto the trees, If it be truly thy desire to make me thy king, then come and trust in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and burn the cedars of Lebanon.
And he said unto him, What is the word that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me. May God do so, and so be so and so, if thou hide from me one word of all that were spoken unto thee.
but let your conversation be worthy of the gospel of Christ; that whether I come and see you, or, being absent, may hear of you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one accord working together for the faith of the gospel.
But if ye be without correction, in which all the children of men are waxed ted, then thou shalt be strange and not sons.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly woman; and there was not a master among the children of Israel than he; from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
therefore let us go forth unto him without the camp, and bear his reproach.
When the hair of the children of Israel is long, when the children of Israel offer themselves, bless Jehovah.
And the wife of Eber the Kenite took in her hand a nail and a hammer: and she went softly to him, and cast the nail into his temple, and he went through into the ground; he fell down from the time when he was faint, and he died.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Atad, but found them not; then they passed through the land of Shallers, and there they were not there. And he passed through the land of the Gileadites, but they found them not.
For all seek their own things, not the things of Jesus Christ.
Be free from the love of money; be content with such things as thou hast; for he hath said, I will not leave you, neither will I forsake you.
Thus God rewarded the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father, in smiting his seventy brethren.
And when he saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once; for he hath told me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hand.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until thou come unto Gaza; and they left no food for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Saul said, Let God be surety upon me, if thou die not, Jonathan.
And it came to pass, when they were afar off from the house, then Micah, and the men that were in the house of Micah, cried out; and they overtook the children of Dan.
And Micaiah said unto him, Make thee dwell with me, and be a father and a priest unto me, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver a year, and thy raiment and thy food.
And some of the Hebrews had gone over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead; but as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him trembling.
If a man sin against a man, then hath God judged him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? and they hearkened not to the voice of their father, though Jehovah had delight to slay them.
And ye have risen against the house of my father this day, and ye shall kill his sons, seventy men upon one stone, and cause Abimelech the son of his handmaid to reign over the masters of Shechem, because he is your brother.
And David said unto his men, Before Jehovah, never let it be said that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the chosen of Jehovah's elect, because Jehovah's anointing oil hath been anointed upon him.
And there went out a man from the camp of the Philistines, whose name was divided, from Gath; six cubits and a span his height,
And she fastened it with the nail, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: he awaked out of his sleep, and plucked away the nail of the wood, and the screen.
And Achan the son said unto them, This time, as the Philistines are troubled, when I do evil, I am blameless.
But I am straitened between two: having a desire to be dissolved, and to be with Christ, a thing by far the better.
that your glorying may abound in me in Christ Jesus, through my being present with you.
And the angel of Jehovah stood before his eyes, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O man of war.
And he said, Now, when thy words are true, what shall be the shepherd of the child, and what shall be his work?
But Jonathan had not heard of his father's commissions, to the people, and put forth the end of the rod, which was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and brought his hand to his mouth, and his eyes behold.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bring forth a son; no razor shall come upon his head; for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb: he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
For ye have need of patience, that, after that ye have done the will of God, ye may receive that which was spoken.
But Saul said unto David, Thou shalt not go against this of the Philistines to fight with him, because thou only art a child, whereas he is a man of war from his youth.
for he was sick of death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also upon me, that I might not have sorrow on sorrow.
And she let him down through a window; and he went and fled away, and escaped.
For ye have need of patience, that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance is mine, I will recompense, saith the Lord: and again the Lord will judge his people.
And he gave him to Ziklag in that day: therefore, Ziklag, the kings of Judah, unto this day.
And he spake unto him, and said, This is nothing else but the sword of Ben-hadad the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for Jehovah had delivered Midian, and all their host into his hand.
being gentle to them that are ignorant, and that goeth astray; Seeing that also is persecuted with weakness.
and their sins and their abominations I will remember no more.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? and why dost thou afflict thy heart? am not I better to thee than ten children?
And Jehovah was wroth with them, and delivered them into the hand of the Philistines and of the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his children judges over Israel.
And they took that which was Micah made, and his priest, and came unto Shechem, to a people living and without device; and they put them to the sword without mercy, and burned down their city.
And Moses by faith was born, and was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the young child; and they feared not the king's commandment.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.
And the Philistines went up into the land of Judah, and encamped in the place of that which was called the name of Eshcol, the bone, where their host was spread.
And the Amorites were determined to dwell in Endor, in Aijalon, and in travail; but the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon them, and they became subject to tasklabor.
and the voice of the trumpet and the voice of words, which they that heard, defending themselves, turned aside speaking, being spoken unto them any more:
So David arose, and passed over with the six hundred men that were with him unto Ahijah the son of meeting, king of Gath.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath delivered us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.
And David took the sword of Saul, and put the girdle upon him, and could not go forward; for he was not content with them. Then David said unto Saul, I am not able to go out with these, for I am not with them. And David took them off.
And Israel set a ambush round about Gibeah.
And he died by faith Jacob; blessed one of Joseph's sons, and worshipped the top of his rod.
And he said, In his kingdom, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Naphtali took not the land of Beth-shemesh, or Bethshemesh, and drove them out; but he dwelt among the Canaanites in the land; nevertheless the people of Beth-shemesh and all Bithron were put to taskwork.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Jehovah will be witness between us: surely we will do what thou sayest.
My brethren, I count not myself to have taken: but one thing I do: who forget the things that are behind, and stretched forth mine,
And it shall be, when these signs shall come unto thee, thou shalt do as thy hand shall find; for God is with thee.
But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of the contrary, the things that have been sent from you the things that were sent from you, a sweet savor, a sacrifice acceptable, acceptable unto God.
and bring these ten stuff to the captain of the thousand, and visit thy brethren to see how they are, and take a pledge of them.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well? wherefore the Lord reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, my son David: and prosper thou shalt do, and thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his stead.
And he left them, that he might try Israel by them, whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses, or not.
Withhold thou not the lands of those whom Chemosh thy God shall drive out from before thee? so will we keep all the lands of them whom Jehovah our God bringeth out from before us.
the world, of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in the deserts, and the mountains, and the holes, and the holes of the earth.
And he said unto him, Thou shalt not die: thou shalt not die: behold, my father doeth nothing either great or small, but that he hath beguiled it unto me: why would my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
and be found in him, not having the righteousness of my own, that which is of the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith.
And Abimelech pursued him; and he fled from before him: and many fell slain at the entrance of the gate.
What is thy god that thy god causeth thee to possess, wilt thou not possess it? and all that Jehovah our God hath driven out from us, shall we possess it.
Those whose root is in Amalek came out of Ephraim, after thee, Benjamin, among thy people. Princes came down out of Machir; and they that handle the rod's staff came out of Zebulun.
And Samuel told him all the words, and hid nothing from him. And he said, He is Jehovah; he will do that which is good in his sight.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they made the Canaanites tributary; but they did not utterly dispossess them.
And the Amorites would dwell on the hill-country of Gihon, in Aijalon, and in carving; but the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and they became tributary.
And they said, Thou hast not wronged us, nor oppressed us, nor took any man's hand.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, his concubine fell down at the door of the house, with her hands on the door.
and let us reckon one another, to provoke to love and to good works:
And the congregation sent twelve thousand men of valor, and charged them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the little ones.
Thou hast loved righteousness and hated; And so God thy God hath anointed thy head above upon the princes of them that are with thee.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah require it at the hand of David's enemies.
And Saul sent again to see David, saying, Bring him to me in the bed, that he may be slain.
By faith Abraham, being tempted, offered up Isaac: yea, he that received the promises was offered up his own self and only son:
And he smote them from Aroer, and unto thy going in unto Minnith twenty cities, and twenty cities in the midst of the vineyards; and the children of Ammon humbled themselves before the children of Israel.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the lad ministered unto Jehovah in the presence of Naaman the priest.
Then Abigail made two hundred loaves, and two vessels of wine, and five sheep ready arrayed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred cakes of dry figs, and laid them upon asses.
For if the blood of goats and oxen, and the ashes of a heifer that hath been defiled, they are sanctified unto the cleanness of the flesh;
But go on doing good and giving to others; for God is pleased with such offerings.
And David called unto the army and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Wilt thou not answer, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou that thou call unto the king?
It was right for us to have such a high priest, he that is holy and without evil, and sinneth not, having no part with sinners, and exalted above heaven.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, he spake with Saul on the housetop.
And it was so. And when he rose up early on the morrow, he pressed the wool of the fleece, and drained out the dew out of the fleece of the shearing of the fleece;
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David saw the place where Saul lay down, as well as Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host. Now Saul slept in the camp, and the people were encamped round about him.
And Achan said unto them, This time will I be blameless in the case of the Philistines, when I shall hurt them.
But I rejoiced in the Lord exceedingly, that now ye thought now in the last time your care; in which ye were anxious, but ye lacked a opportunity.
And the same time, and the same day, gave him to the same day: wherefore, Ziklag, the kings of Judah, unto this day.
For Jehovah will punish his love; Every one that sweareth as his son seeth him.
And these were dead in faith without receiving the promises; but seeing them from afar and received them, and that they were sojourners and sojourners upon the earth.
And it came to pass, as he did so year by year, when she went up unto the house of Jehovah, and she rebelled against her: and she wept, and did not eat.
that ye may be perfect and simple, the children of God without blemish in the midst of a perverse and perverse generation, among whom ye are as lights in the world;
And Saul chose for himself three thousand men of Israel, of which two thousand were with Saul at Michmash and in the mountain of Beth-el, and one thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and he sent the rest of the people unto their tents.
And all the men of Israel said to Shepham, Be over us, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast delivered us from Midian.
Deal kindly therefore with thy servant; for thou hast brought me thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee. But if there be any iniquity in me, thou kill me, and bring me not in unto thy father.
And it came to pass, when he heard the interpretation of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he bowed down, and returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath given the camp of Midian into your hand.
And Agag the king of the Amalekites died, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And the spies saw a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us now the entering into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And they said one to another, Who did this? And they searched and sought, and said, The son of Jehoash hath done this thing.
He asked the water, and gave her milk; she brought forth the ghost, she brought nigh butter.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with the corners thereof.
Yet thou hast forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore will I no more deliver thee.
And let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the sun, when it ariseth in his strength. Then the land had rest forty years.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And Jonathan sware unto David, because he loved him; for he loved him as his own soul.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will recompense, saith the Lord; and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
And they brought the ark of God into the house of Dagon, and put it by the side of Dagon.
And David said to Jonathan, To morrow is the new moon, and I will not sit with the king at his table: but let me go to a refuge in the land until the even.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Did I take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, and to go up unto my altar to burn the incense of the offerings, and to take up the ephod? did I give unto your father's house all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel?
And it said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet fruits, and mine increase, and go to be exalted among the other trees?
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
I know both to be base, and I know to abound: in everything and in all things I have been knit together, both to be full, and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want.
And he numbered them in Hashabiah; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
For ye think diligently upon him that once evil against himself, that ye be not weary, failing in your mind.
For this is the covenant that I will command with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my statutes in their heart, and I will write them in their heart, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Go therefore, I pray you, and take all diligence, and inquire, and consider the place where his foot is, and who seeth him there: for he thinketh of me, that I lie falsely in wait for him.
They that were full shall hire themselves out for bread; but they that are hungry shall be fat: and as for the rich, she shall bear seven; but she that hath many sons withered away.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to be with him in the camp of Dan, between Seraiah and Zeredah.
And he divided three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty vessels, and lamps within the flagons.
And he inquired of the Lord, and answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by priests, nor by the prophets.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in Ahaz, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass that they that were left were scattered, and not two of them were left together.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
And Israel and the Philistines had set their forces in array, and fought against war.
And this I pray, that your love may abound more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
And he said unto them, What have I done now like you? are not the gleaning of Ephraim better than the harvest of the Hebrews?
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew there thirty men, whose clothes he took away, and gave to them that had declared the dark, and went up very wroth to his father's house.
And he said unto them, Let me make a request of you, that every one of you give me a ring from his spoil. And they had gold rings of gold, because they were the Ishmeelites.
And they all came to the house of God at Shiloh, and tarried before him until the evening, and lifted up their voices, and wept, and wept, saying,
And all the land of the land are come into a forest, and honey is upon the face of the field.
For such is the high priest, who is holy, pure, and undefiled, and undefiled from the wicked, and exalted above heaven.
Thou camest not unto a mountain that shall touch, and burn with fire, and a cloud, and a dry smoke, and a violent wind,
of whom it was said, That in Isaac shall thy seed be called,
Stay with me, be not afraid: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: for thou shalt be safe with me.
Which of the Holy Spirit also is a witness unto us: for he said before,
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
He went down at her feet, and he was stretched out; and he bowed down, and bowed down; and he bowed down, and went down thither.
Arise therefore in the night with the people that is with thee, and he hid in the field:
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, Who among all thy servants, is faithful as David? he is the king's king's son, that moveth thee speedily, and be honoured in thy house.
Where Jesus went in unto us, having become a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And when Saul saw how he understood, he feared him.
Behold, my daughter, the virgin, and his concubine, let me bring them out, I pray you, and humble them, and do to them that which is good in your eyes; and do not this foolish thing.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek for me a woman that hath a spirit of divination, that I may go to her and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit in Endor.
And the three sons of Jesse went, and went after Saul to battle; and the name of his three sons that went into the host was Eliab the first-born, and his second Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And Saul said to his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and pierce me with it, lest these uncircumcised men come with me, and pierce me, and roll me upon me. And the armorbearer of his armor was not willing: for he was greatly afraid: and Saul took the sword, and fell upon it.
And Saul came to Saul at Gibeah, and said, Is not David abiding near us in the hill of Tophet, before the wilderness?
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, whose son art thou? And David answered, I am the son of thy handmaid, the son of Bethlehem.
It repented me that I have set up Saul to be king: for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And Saul's brother said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee.
For Jehovah will not deliver his people, because of the glory of his name; for Jehovah will will make thee a people for himself.
And the lords of the Philistines passed by hundreds and by thousands; and David and his men passed on in the hinder part of the Syrians.
And it came to pass after a long time, at the time of wheat harvest, that he saw his wife with a young goat: and he said, I will go to my wife's chamber. And her father would not suffer him to enter.
Shall they not find? they shall divide the spoil, even two women, for every head; for they shall put forth the charge of the signet, to whom they shall be taught, which are made of embroidered work, a couple of embroidered work, for the neck of the spoil.
And Micaiah gave the office to the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
Let them consider it that go upon white asses, And those that walk in the way.
But David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judah: how much more, if we go to the war of the Philistines?
Now therefore deliver us the men, the sons of Belial, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And David said unto Ahijah, What have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I have done thy charge unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And the fig-tree saith unto them, Have I ceased from my sweet, and my good increase, that I have gone to wander over the trees?
And it came to pass, when Israel had sown, and it was Midian, and Amalek, and the rest of the east nations came up.
For when God made a promise unto Abraham, seeing he swear by no man greater, he sware by himself,
And it came to pass, that there were born seventy sons, that he came out of his unbelief; for he had many wives.
And when I blow with the trumpet, I and all that are with me, ye shall blow the trumpets round about all the camp, and shall say, For Jehovah and for base.
And his brethren, and his whole family, came down, and took him up; and they brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the tomb of his father: he commanded Israel twenty years.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold, I pray thee, thou barren, and thou shalt not bear: when thou hast conceived, thou shalt bear a son.
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And the congregation sent out twelve thousand men from the people, and commanded them, saying, Go, smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women and the children.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is done to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
And all these died according to faith, having not received the promises, but beholding them afar off, and besought them, and confessed that they were sojourners and sojourners upon the earth.
And the sons of Judah did not make the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem; and the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
and to abide in the flesh;
For God repented for us, that they should not be perfected without us.
And after him was Jotham the son of Achbor, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox to go, and he also delivered Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And the children of Israel came near unto the children of Benjamin the second day.
And on the fourth day they rose up early in the morning, and made haste: but the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Take a little provision to hide thy strength, and go on thy way.
And the people, the captains of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he is the head of all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And thy asses, which were lost three days ago, be not careful of them, because they were found: for whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not for thee and for all the house of thy father?
And they called unto the children of Dan, and they turned their faces round about, and said to Micah, What is thou to thee that thou wast called together?
Even so the Christ, being once offered to bear the sins of many, shall appear unto them that wait for him the second time without sin for salvation.
I am bold to the mark for the perfecting of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And Jonathan made David to swear, because he loved him: for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
And the angel of Jehovah put out the tip of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and the fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of Jehovah departed from his sight.
And they ran, and brought him from thence, and set himself in the midst of the people, and he was higher than all the people from his shoulders and upward.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, out of the tribe of death, and his name was Elimelech: his wife was barren, and bare not children.
And Shema the son said unto them, This time I am guiltless of the Philistines, though I do them harm.
For about him we have many words to say, and hard to interpret, seeing that thou hast heard it.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old: and that which is in desolation and is old is ready to be consumed.
So they sat down, and ate, and drank, both of them together. Then the damsel's father said unto the man, Be pleased, I pray thee, to lodge all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And he said unto them, Take heed to me, and do likewise. When I come unto the camp, do as I do.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah: come down, bring it up unto you.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon, and he blew the trumpet, and blew the trumpet, and the smiths were gathered after him.
And she said, Honor hath taken away from Israel: for the ark of God is taken.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgot Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And they waited so long as they were ashamed, because he opened not the doors of the upper chamber: therefore they took the key, and opened the doors, and there their lord was lying upon the ground dead.
And the number of them that took up the waters with their tongues were three hundred; and all the inhabitants of the people fell upon their knees to the water.
Then Jehovah raised up princes, and they delivered them from the hand of their spoilers.
How shall we provide wives for those that remain, since we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?
And the children of Israel repented of Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
Salute ye every holy in Christ Jesus.
Behold, ye are all the children of Israel: give hither your counsel and counsel.
And the Philistines stood on the mount on one side, and the host of Israel stood on the mount on the other side, and the valley between them.
As the proverb of the elders saith, Out of the wicked cometh evil; But my hand shall not be upon you.
And when these signs shall come to thee, whatsoever thy hand shall find, for Jehovah is with thee.
And Naomi said unto her, If they bind me with seven green things that are not dry, then I am weak, and be as one of man's race.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days the battle sought for a possession for themselves, to dwell therein; for there was no portion of the land made unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And the men of Israel went in the battle, and Benjamin began to vex among the thirty men of Israel, because they had said, They shall be utterly smitten before us as in the first battle.
And it came to pass about a month after this, that Nahash the Ammonite came up and besieged Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve us.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David. But Jonathan the son of Saul loved David exceedingly.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them, and worshipped them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said unto Saul, Why dost thou hearken to them that speak, that I would do thee wrong?
And when thou hast tarried three days, go down quickly, and come to the place where thou hid thyself when this one did, and remain by the stone;
And all the children of Israel went up, even all the people, and came to Beth-el, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fast on that day until the evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And the cart came into the field of Jeshua a Benjamite, and stood there; and there was a great stone, and cut in pieces the wood of the cart, and laid the cattle upon it a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Let not man's heart fail concerning him: thy servant shall go and fight with this of the Philistines.
There remaineth therefore a day of rest for the people of God.
So the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the showbread, that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
And Jonathan took off the robe, and gave it to David, and gave it to David, with all his shields, even to his sword, and his bow, and the girdle round about his loins.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, be so minded: and if ye be otherwise minded, this also God will reveal unto you.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.
And now behold how great this man was, to whom Abraham our father gave a tenth part of that which he had gotten in the battle.
For Christ entered not into holy places, made with hand the sect of the true, but into heaven itself, to appear before God for us:
Behold, this day shall thine eyes see that Jehovah hath given thee this day into my hand in the cave, and said to slay thee, and mine eye hath compassion on thee, and I say, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for the anointed of Jehovah he.
Now therefore, I pray, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: if it be so, that the Lord hath stirred you up against me, let him accept a offering. But if it be the children of men, they are cursed before Jehovah: for they have driven me out this day, that I should not cleave unto the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
yea, verily, and I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is more than all: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and unto me they are less than nothing, that I may have Christ as my reward:
And when the men of Israel returned in the battle, Benjamin began to smite, and slew the men of Israel about thirty men; for they said, Surely they are utterly smitten before us as in the chief battle.
But now this shall be the thing which we shall do unto Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it.
And he took two oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent through all the border of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, He that cometh not out after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came forth as one man.
And they believed what David said, He hath hated himself by all his people Israel, and he shall be my servant for ever.
And Shema the son, and cried unto Jehovah, said, O Lord Jehovah, do me now remember me, and make me strong only this once, O God, that I may find thee one than the Philistines for mine eyes.
The wise men, her queens, answer her; Yea, she will answer her words.
And they buried him within the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim the north of Gaash.
For if the word, said by angels, became stedfast, and every transgression and transgression hath received a righteous reward;
to them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David himself, and his men to stay.
And the sons of Benjamin were gathered out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go forth to battle with the children of Israel.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Surely ye see him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. And all the people cried, and said, Long save the king.
And it came to pass by faith Joseph, when his end was nigh, that the children of Israel would go out of Egypt, and commanded his bones.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter to the man that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it.
dwell with me; fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; for a charge thou with me.
A man making void the law of Moses, dieth without any mercy under two or three witnesses.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna fled; and he pursued them: and he took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
Then the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and told the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
And the time that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was four months.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
And his mother's house spake all this concerning him in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem: and their heart turned unto Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Hanun answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman whose spirit is broken with sorrow: I have not taken wine or strong drink; but I have opened my heart before Jehovah.
And being certain of this, I know that I will walk and walk with you all, for your rising and joy in the faith;
For he hath said of the seventh words, and the seventh day he rested from all his works.
And the Philistines of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Distress him, and see wherein his great strength lieth, and whereby we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron; and the name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath-arba; and they smote Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
Then said all the trees unto the thorns, Come thou, and reign over us.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who wrought this great salvation in Israel? The Lord liveth, if there fall from the hair of his head to the earth, for he hath done this day with God. And the people delivered Jonathan, and he died not.
fulfil my joy, that ye may think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, supposing one thing;
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Ben-hadad king of Gath.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of the very truth women have been kept off from us three days, seeing I came forth, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a form; yea, though it were sanctified this day in the ephah.
And now, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, drive out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and thou shalt possess it.
And the congregation sent out twelve thousand men of blood, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.
Go, I pray you, make more sure, and know, and see his place where his record is, which hath seen him there; for it is told me that he dealeth very treacherously.
And when the Philistines arose, and walked, and came to meet David, David hastened, and ran toward the host to meet the Philistines.
And Mesha went over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron; and when the ark came to the ark of God unto Ekron, that the Ekronites cry out, saying, They have brought up unto us the ark of the God of Israel, to kill us and to our people.
And he spake also unto the men of Peniel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Now these are the stones of gold which the Philistines returned unto Jehovah, one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron.
As also a piece of a cake of figs, and two raisins. And when he had eaten them, his spirit returned, and he was refreshed: for he had not eaten bread, nor drank water three days, and three nights.
But what things were gain unto me, even as I was accounted loss for Christ.
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcrafts, and the perverseness is as iniquity and idols: because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
yea, but I count all things, but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and have numbered them but dung, that I may gain Christ,
holding fast to the word of life, for a glorying to me in the day of Christ, that I run not in vain, nor labour in vain.
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.
The wisest of her damsels answered her: She also answereth her questions.
This thing is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the anointed of Jehovah. And now, behold, where the king's spear is, and the water that was at his separation, is not good.
And it came to pass every year, that called a blessing, and blessed his wife, saying, Jehovah give thee seed by this woman in exchange for the child thou hast given unto Jehovah. And they returned to their house.
And it was told to Saul by certain, saying, Behold, David is in Ramoth-gilead.
And all the wicked men, and the wicked, of those that had gone with David, answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead away and go.
and we think to stir one another to love and good works;
And it shall not be so without any of the oath of the oath of the oath, nor of the hand of an oath:
And all Israel heard, saying, Saul hath smitten the Philistines' garrison; and moreover, Israel was abhorred by the Philistines. And the people were called after Saul to Gilgal.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And David said unto Saul, Why hast thou heard men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thee to harm thee?
And the Philistines called for priests and for divination, saying, What shall we do to the ark of Jehovah? let us know that we send it to its place?
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
For if the word which was spoken by angels was confirmed, and every transgression and disobedience received righteousness;
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the rock of Etam; and they said unto a son, Knowest thou not that the Philistines have dominion over us? and what is this that thou hast done to us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.
For they that say such things declare that they seek a habitation.
And the woman hasted, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, he hath appeared unto me, the man that came on day to me.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the choice of the devoted things, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And when they of Ashdod, rising up early the next day, behold, and Dagon fell on his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
And David went from thence to Mizpah of Moab, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother go out with you, until I know what God doth for me.
The stars fought from heaven; From their armies they fought against talking.
And the princes of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, stood in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, drawing sword.
And Saul was very wroth, and was displeased in his sight; and he said, They have showed David ten thousands; but unto me they have appointed the thousands; and there is there more for him but the kingdom?
but my God shall abound all your need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
In faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness of being righteous, God bearing witness unto his gifts; and when he died, he yet speaketh.
Thou shalt not yet while yet I live upon me the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I die not.
Zebulun is a people that smiteth the soul thereof, And Naphtali, in the high places of the field.
And the man that Elkanah went up with all his household, that he should offer the offering of Jehovah, and to pay his vow.
In the days of Pekah, the son of Beor, in the days of Jehiel, the highways were not used, and the wayfaring men went by the way.
And he sent unto them that were at Beth-el, and in Ramah of the South, and in Jattir;
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day; now let me smite him with the earth with his spear, and there shall be no need of him.
that God was able to give life unto the dead; and therefore he delivered him from death.
even Christ also glorified himself to be made a high priest: but it was he that said unto him, Thou art my Son: this day have I become thy father.
If therefore he were on the earth, he would not even be a priest; there is they that offer the gifts according to the law,
But Joash said unto all that smote him, Wilt thou take up the cause of Baal? shall thou save him? let any man that is left his cause be put to death while it is still morning: if he be a god, let him take up his cause upon his altar.
And all the men of Israel that dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, and pursued after them.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clothed with a dish; and the weight of the ephah was five thousand shekels of brass.
And David fled, and departed, and came to Samuel in Riblah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Dan.
And David asked Jehovah, saying, Shall I go? and will I smite among these the Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and thou shalt smite among the Philistines, and thou shalt be saved.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was to Sisera, which dwelt in the summer of the nations.
And the men of Israel went out to war against Benjamin ( and the men of Israel fought against them in Gibeah.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded thee.
And it came to pass, when David was returning after the Philistines, that Abner returned unto Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
But Saul looked not upon David with a good eye from that day and forward.
So Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, None of us shall go into his tent, and none of us shall depart to his house.
When ye go in, ye shall come to a people secure, and the land is enlarged; for God hath given it into your hand; it is a place where there is no lack of anything that is upon the earth.
And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these; for I have not proved them. And David smote him.
And Saul sent messengers to the house of David to keep him, and to kill him in the morning; but Michal his wife told David, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life to-night, then thou shalt be slain.
For every house is builded by some one; and he that hath built all things God,
And Jehovah appeared to appear in Shiloh; for Jehovah was revealed unto Samuel in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
And he was very thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance by the hand of thy servant; and now shall I die of thirst, and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?
Ye are not yet rebellious unto blood, warring against sin.
Again again he sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon,
And it shall be, if Israel shall sow, that the Midianites shall come up, and Amalek, and the children of the east; yea, they shall come up against him.
And thy asses, which were lost three days ago, did not set thy heart upon them; for they are found: for whom is all that is pleasant in Israel? is it not for thee, and for all thy father's house?
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, According to these words hath David spoken.
Now that ye are full of full estate, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly was added with me as of giving and receiving, but ye only.
And Saul encampeth in the high place of the Canaanite, which is before the wilderness by the way, and David dwelt in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul had come after him in the wilderness.
And it came to pass, when he came to the Jordan, that he passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him, weary, but pursued.
And the children of Israel also returned by their tribes, and their fathers' houses: in those days there was no king in Israel: but every man did that which was right to himself.
And he passed over through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through through the land of Iphtah-el, and found them not; and they passed over through the land of Shallers, and they were not; and he passed through the land of Benjamin, but they found not.
Now the sons of Belial were the sons of Belial: they knew not Jehovah.
For he that entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did of his.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel returned unto Israel from Ekron to Gath; and Israel delivered their borders out of the hand of the Philistines. Then there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
having no fear of them that are against you, which is a manifest token of their destruction, but of thy salvation, and that of God;
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples round about them, worshipping them, and provoke Jehovah to anger.
and the men very good unto us, and have not put us to shame, neither have we sought all the days that we went up and down with them, when we were in the field.
Have I not mad men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the mad in my presence? shall this man enter into my house?
and no hospitality can not forget: for by this, being not aware of it, have left his angels.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of thy hand, and of which thou hast sworn, and spakest in mine ears, behold, I have taken the silver with me. And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah.
And when the lad was gone, David rose up out of a place toward the south, and fell upon his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David exceeded.
But I reckon those things that are gain to me as a loss for Christ.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the door of the house, and went out to go his way: and, behold, there lay the woman his concubine at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
And David's men said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do unto him as it seemeth good unto thee. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's mantle secretly.
Therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli, that the iniquity of the house of Ish-bosheth shall not be taken away with sacrifice or offering for ever.
And he had thirty sons sitting upon thirty asses; and they had thirty cities, that are called the villages of Jair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And Moab humbled that day under the hand of Israel; and the land rested fourscore years.
And when he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And they took that which Micah had made, and the priest that he had, and came upon him, upon a quiet people, and in safety; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And when all that knew him aforetime saw that he prophesied with the prophets, the people said one to another, What is this that is done to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
Now, my father, behold, behold, the skirt of thy robe in my hand: for when I cut the skirt of thy garment, I did not kill thee: know, and know that there is no evil nor rebellious in my hand: I have not sinned against thee, but thou hast fed my life.
but the Avvites dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
For my father shall fight for you, and shall give him his life, and deliver you out of the hand of Midian.
And he took a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he told him the princes of Succoth, and his elders, seventy-seven men.
For the account of God liveth, and working, and the sharp above every two-edged sword, and stripes unto the separate, both of life and spirit, of joint, and of marrow, and of thoughts, and of thoughts of heart.
Yea, they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise in the camp of the Philistines waxed louder and louder: and Saul said unto the priest, Take thy hand.
For he of whom these are said in the tribe of the tribe, whom no man commanded at the altar,
For Jehovah will not leave his people for his great name; for Jehovah hath pleased you to make you a people.
So it came to pass, that day, that day, that day, to Jabin the king of Canaan, before the children of Israel,
So that day God smote with Hazael king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And for this cause he is the mediator of the new testament, that by the hand of death, for the redemption of the transgressions which were under the first covenant, they that are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
Then the priest's heart rejoiced, and took the ephod, and the other gods, and the graven image, and went with the people.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and the inhabitants of the east, set themselves together, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And I went after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I took him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
looking unto Jesus the son of Jesus, and to the end of our faith; who for the joy which was set before him endured the cross, despised the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? and after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a moth!
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Entreat me, O Lord, let the man of God come, whom thou hast sent again come unto us, and teach us what we should do concerning the child that shall be born.
And it came to pass, that he called the name of Baal that day, saying, Let Baal take up his cause against him because of his altar.
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die; for we have seen God.
My heart loveth the princes of Israel: O ye that of your own good shall set yourselves to silence, bless Jehovah.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Imri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of a Benjamite, a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
And the old man, having lifted up his eyes, saw the ambush of the city, and said, Where goest thou, and whence comest thou?
And all the people went to Gilgal, and caused Saul to reign there before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there was sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul rejoiced, and all the men of Israel were very much.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
And Saul and the people despised the flocks, and the flocks of sheep, and of the herds, and the garments, and the rams, and all that was pleasant, and would not destroy them; but every thing that was vile and good for nothing, that they destroyed.
And Jehovah said unto Bidkar, By the three hundred men that lalled will I save thee, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand: and let all the other people go every man unto his place.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
For, as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
And the children of Dan went on their way, and Micah saw that they were stronger than he, and turned and returned to his house.
As it is righteous for me to think this to you all, because ye have put me in your hearts, and that ye have both in my bonds, and in the defense, and in the defense of the gospel, ye are all partakers in my grace.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of feasting, whose name was named.
And he sprinkled the tabernacle, and sprinkled all the vessels thereof with blood;
For he hath not subject to angels the world that is to come, whereof we speak;
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and let us build the kingdom there.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And they turned thither, and came into the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and inquired after his welfare.
Woe to the curse! and the angel of Jehovah, saith the angel of Jehovah, a curse upon her city, because they have not come to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
And they said, He is before you; go quickly now; for he is come into the city this day; for the people are sacrificing in the high place this day.
And it shall come to pass after that ye shall come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where a troop of the Philistines shall stand; and when thou comest into the city, thou shalt see a band of prophets coming down from the high places with instruments of music before them; and they shall prophesy like prophets:
and then it fell, it is impossible to restore them again to repentance; seeing they crucified the Son of God again, and put him to open shame.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called that place the place of Mahanaim.
And it came to pass at the time, when the daughter of Saul had been given unto David, that she was given to wife the wife to wife.
And there was at that time a man of mount Ephraim named his name.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: howbeit the name of the city was called.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou come again.
For we ought all diligence, and be careful, that one tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
Therefore they inquired of Jehovah, if the man should yet come thither. And the Lord answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And she sat under a palm-tree, which was called by her name, between Ramah and Beth-el in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up unto her for all judgment.
But Christ being made high priest of the good things to come by the good and more perfect, not made with hand, which is, not of this creature;
In those days there is no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the men sought for itself an inheritance to dwell in; for it fell not unto it unto that day among the tribes of Israel by inheritance.
By faith Noah, being warned of things concerning the things which was not yet seen, having feared, and prepared a ark unto the salvation of his house, through which he sinned the world, and of righteousness according to faith he became heir.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests, unto the tribe of Dan unto the day of the captivity of the land.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of Shechem's tower were gathered together.
And Meonothai pursued after the chariots, and after the army, to the lele-country; and all the host of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; not one was left.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do these things, which I hear, even very evil things, from all the people?
And Ben-hadad sent messengers into all the mount Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take the waters before them to Beth-the Jordan. And Ephraim shouted, and took the waters before them and the Jordan, as far as Beth-zur.
who by faith overcame kingdoms, wrought righteousness, and received promises, stopped the mouth of lions,
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget thy work and the labor of love which thou hast showed toward his name, in that ye served the saints, and yet serve them.
Then said they, What shall the trespass offering be that we shall return unto him? And they said, five gold of gold, and five gold of gold, for the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague was upon you all, and upon your lords.
But without any cause the inferior of the inferior is blessed by the greatest.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the spoil to the elders of Judah, unto his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you from the spoil of Jehovah's enemies.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and departed from Saul.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Hanun, and said, I made thee to go up out of Egypt, and have brought thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will not break my covenant with you; and as for thee,
And they went from before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness, but the battle took up unto them; and they that came of the cities destroyed them among them.
They were not satisfied with his words, which the man when he seeth, brought forth his concubine unto them, and forsook her to their wickedness: and when they had made her the night, they let her go in the morning.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, get thee down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenite departed from among the Amalekites.
But here men that die shall receive tithes: and there is that testified unto that he was alive.
And the number of them that spread up the waters with their hand to their mouth was three hundred men; and all the rest of the forces fell to drink the water.
For many walk, of whom I told you often, and now tell you even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ;
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me now pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken to it. And in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab; but he would not consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
For even in Thessalonica, because of one occasion, ye sent for my need.
And they asked the Lord, saying, Is the man present hither? And the word of Jehovah was he that keepeth himself.
and because of this infirmity he ought, as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant was keeping the sheep of his father: and when a lion or a bear came, and took a lamb out of the flock,
So Saul sent officers to take David; and when they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel looked over them, the Spirit of Jehovah came upon them, and they prophesied also.
For he, of whom these things are spoken, is of another tribe, whereof no man ministered upon the altar.
And the children of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul tarried in Gilgal, and all the people were moved after him.
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with him, and was departed from himself.
And Jonathan went up on his hand and his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan, and his armorbearer slew them after him.
and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in flatteries, then came ye out of the vineyards, and take you every man his wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
For who, when they heard, rebelled? No, did not all them that came out of Egypt by Moses?
And the king said unto Bidkar, Turn thee, and fall upon the priests. And the Edomite answered, and fell upon the priests, and slew the two of the ephod, and the priests of the ephod.
And he said unto the angel of the Lord, Let us now prepare thee, while we prepare a kid for thee.
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, Who is faithful among all thy servants, as David, and the king's son, and let him depart unto thy council, and be glorified in thy house?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments; and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, I pray thee, warn me by the spirit of rebellion, and bring me up, whom I shall show thee.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel; and the battle spread, and Israel was smitten before the Philistines; and they slew in battle array in the field about four thousand men.
Again he appointed a certain day, saying, In David, this day, after so long time ( as it is said before), To-day, if ye will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.
Then said the elders of the congregation, How shall we provide wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
And, behold, as thy life was much set in mine eyes, so let my life be much in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all affliction.
And the Philistines came near unto David; and the man that had his shield went before him.
Jesus, even Jesus, and unto day, and the same for ever.
but ye exhort one another every day, while it is called unto day, that none of you be hardened through the deceit of sin.
And the name of Saul's wife was Achsah the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner the brother of Saul's brother.
And the people saw him, and praised their god: for they said, Our god hath given into our hand them that hate us, and spoil our land, and slay many of us.
being persuaded, while ye were made a spectacle both by reproach and afflictions; and part, while ye were companions of them that were so.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; and the men of Israel gave land to Benjamin, because they had trusted the ambush which they had set against Gibeah.
of whom it was said, Of Isaac shall thy seed take their name:
And there was a young man of Bethlehem Judah, of the family of Judah; and he was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field to meet David, and a little child with him.
And there was an certain sign between the men of Israel and the men in wait, that they should make a great flame with smoke, rising up out of the city.
The Sidonians also, and Amalek and Canaan, cursed you, and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand?
And the men of Beth-maacah said, Who shall stand before Jehovah this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
As it is said in the old proverb, Out of the wicked shall wickedness come forth; therefore shall not my hand be upon thee. After whom dost thou go forth, O king of Israel?
And now, I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; now, the shepherds whom thou hast been with us, we have not put them to shame, nor did any thing look after them, all the days of their being in Carmel.
And it came to pass, while he slept, that she found the seven seals of his coat, and fastened with the nail, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and awaked upon thee, and awaked down quickly, and dragged up, and dragged up.
And David smote the land, and saved no man nor woman alive; and he took away the sheep, and the cattle, and the asses, and the camels, and the raiment. Then he returned, and came to Ahijah.
And the Midianites was subdued before the children of Israel, and they did not lift up their head; and the land rested for forty years in the days of purification.
Not that I have already obtained the prize, or am already perfected: but I follow, if I also should get possession, seeing that I was received heirs of Christ.
And it came to pass, that every one that saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day: think ye over, counsel, and speak.
So therefore we can say in confidence, The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid: what shall man do unto me?
For we that believe shall enter into rest; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest; and this indeed, when the works from the foundation of the world were finished.
And David sent ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout the camp. And the host fled to Beth-shemesh, to the border of Abel, to the border of Abel, to the border of Abel.
And David delivered him into the hands of the guard of the guard, and went to his brethren, and came to his brethren, to know them.
And the death came to Samuel; and all Israel came together, and wept with him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. Then David went down into the wilderness of Maon.
For the Christ entered not into holy places, the sect of the true, but into heaven itself, now to be revealed before God for us.
And it came to pass, after they had taken it away, that the hand of Jehovah was stretched out against the city to destroy it: and the plague of leprosy fell upon all the men of the city, small and great.
And it came to pass on that same night Jehovah said unto him, Take the bullock of the cattle that is thy father, and a second bullock seven years old, and break down the altar of Baal that is thy father, and cut down the Asherah that is beside it;
And Micaiah answered and said unto him, From this day will I be guiltless in what I do against the Philistines: for I will do you evil.
And I exhorted you that ye should do this, that I may be restored to you shortly.
And it came to pass, when he heard the noise of the cry, that he said, What is the noise of this concourse? And the man came quickly and told,
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, Zadok's son, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought there the ephod unto David.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and found Saul lying, and slept in the tent, and lay his spear upon his head: and Abner and the people slept round about him.
( in the former time in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, and let us go to the seer; for he is called a prophet in first time called a seer.)
How much more, if the people should eat willingly willingly of the spoil of their enemies which they have found? for now hath there been no great slaughter among the Philistines.
And they told to spy the son of Cushan, that they had gone up unto mount Tabor.
And Abimelech rose up with him, and the people with him, in four bands, to prepare Shechem.
And they smote at that time about ten thousand men of Moab, every mighty man, and every man of valor; no man escaped.
If they say unto us, Wait unto us until we come; then we will stand as we are, and shall not go up unto them.
And he said unto his wife, We will surely die, because we have seen God.
But when they came up out of Egypt, he went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came into Kadesh.
But the vine said unto them, Am I to give up my wine, who maketh glad God and men, to go over the trees?
Here is my virgin daughter and his concubine: I pray thee, let me bring them out; do violence unto them, and do unto them whatsoever ye please: do not this infamy unto this man.
and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ, unto the glory of God the Father.
For it is born witness, thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchizedek.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David now stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
( for the law brought nothing to perfection, but a gift of a good hope by which we draw nigh unto God.)
In the morning her master arose, and he opened the doors of the house, and went out to go on his way: and, behold, his concubine fell at the door of the house, with her hand on the door.
And when Saul spake unto the priest, there arose a great tumult in the camp of the Philistines, and increased by steps, and was heard more plainly. And Saul said unto the priest, Draw in thy hand.
For unto which of the angels said he in any time, Thou art my Son: this day am I become thy father? and again, I will be unto him a Father, and he shall be my Son?
Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, the wife of David, to Hosea the son of Laish.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt; and they followed other gods from the gods of the people that were round about them; and they bowed down unto them, and provoked the anger of Jehovah.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote the snow of Nabal, and he died.
And the men of Jabesh said to the children of Ammon, To-morrow we shall come out unto you, and do to us according to all that is good in your sight.
And Jesse called, Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel: and he said, Jehovah hath not chosen this man.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Hear, O ye kings, give ear, ye princes: it is I, that will sing unto Jehovah, I will sing unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go from us?
Howbeit we are not of them that turn back to destruction, but of them that believe the life of the soul.
And now, I pray thee, hearken thou also to the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength when thou goest on thy way.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a deliverer unto the children of Israel, that delivered them; and Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
For as Jehovah liveth, who shall deliver Israel, I will swear, that if it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die: but no man of all the host answered him.
And David ravaged all the land, and left neither man nor woman alive: and he took away the sheep and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to spy his.
And the wife of Gilead bare him children; and when his wife's sons were grown, they drove out Baal, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people: the garrison, and the destroyers, they also trembled, and the earth trembled; so it was a very great trembling.
Not that I seek the gift; But I seek for the profit that increase for your sake.
And there came a man of God to Naaman, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Were I now revealed unto thy father's house, when they were in Egypt, before Pharaoh's house,
For they are only the statutes of the flesh, of meats, and of drinking, and of witchcrafts, which have their place until the time that shall be fulfilled.
And they said, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and cast therein every man the rings of his prey.
And the days that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was one year and four months.
if thou hast done good faith and sincerity with Baal and his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in thee.
Now therefore see the king whom thou hast chosen, and whom thou hast asked for: behold, Jehovah hath set a king over thee.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the briers; and he taught the men of Succoth.
By faith Noah, having received an answer concerning those things which were not seen, being moved with fear, wrought the ark for the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and was appointed the heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And Iphdeiah continued, and sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Speak, how is this evil?
And he stripped off his clothes, and prophesied also before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Therefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Saul waited in the uttermost part of Geba under the fruit of Geba in Gibeah: and there were about six hundred men with him.
And when he was dead, all the men of Israel that were with him returned unto their home.
even, even to you, that I may have glory in you in the day of Christ, that I may boast in the day of Christ; because my running was not because of nothing, neither did my work fail.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And it came to pass, when he knew that he was an angel of the Lord, and said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for seeing I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face.
And know also ye, I beseech you, in the beginning of the gospel, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I came out of Macedonia, no assembly was laid unto me in the way of giving, and receiving you alone.
And they went aside thither to go in to dwell in Gibeah. And he went in, and sat down in the street of the city; for there was none that took them into his house to stay.
For I am in a narrow church betwixt, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ; which is far better:
And while they were eating the supper, the sons of the city gathered the house, and smote the door; and they said unto the old man, The master of the house, Send forth that man that came into thy house, that we may take our pleasure with him.
And it came to pass, when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is that thy voice, David my son? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
From thence they went to mount Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the Amorite drove the children of Dan into the hill-country; for they would not suffer them to come down into the valley.
Thou hast not yet rebellious to shed thy blood, As thou hast wearied thy blood.
Having therefore, brethren, without boldness in the holy of holies by the blood of Jesus,
And when he had taken na, then was dead, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee; and Jehovah will avenge me of thee, and my hand shall not be upon thee.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the den which are in the mountains, and in the caves, and in strongholds.
And the priest answered David, and said, I have no common bread, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
Many are the priests, because they are hindered from death.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee safely, and deliver thee into their hands; but surely we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two rough cords, and brought him up from the rock.
And when they went from thence to Gibeah, there met him a prophet, and the Spirit of God fell upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied, and Samuel standing over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul; and they prophesied also.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight; and Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped by the mighty men. And the Philistines came to Aphek,
And now this blessing which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
For even in Thessalonica you sent once, and again to me in my need.
And I said, Now the Philistines shall come down upon me at Gilgal, and I will make no supplication to Jehovah: and I will break myself, and I will make a burnt-offering.
For they did not endure that which was said, and if any beast touch the mount, it shall be stoned.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken away from Israel to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and their border had Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorite.
And the asses of Kish Shua was lost: and Kish said unto his son Saul, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, go, and seek the asses. And they passed through the hill-country of Ephraim.
and others were troubled of riot and stripes, and also of bands and prisons.
Then the congregation sent, and spake all this unto the children of Benjamin that were at the rock of Rimmon; and they warned them they would not be hurt.
And he went, and prepared a young goat, and unleavened cakes, of an ephah of fine flour; and he put flesh in a basket, and put them in a pot, and brought them unto him under the oak, and presented them.
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah commanded him: but he feared his father's house, and the men of that city, he would not do it by day, but did all by night.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a hundred and ten years old.
And it came to pass, when the people came to the camp, that the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us this day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto us from Shiloh, that it may come into our midst, and deliver us from the hand of our enemies.
The reproach of Christ is great riches than the treasures in Egypt: for he hath respect unto the recompense of the reward.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Serah, and Malchijah, and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the first-born, the name of the younger, Michal;
But all the children of Israel were to go unto the Philistines to possess themselves, and to make them molten, and with axes, and with hooks.
And he gathered together unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man fled from before him, and were greatly afraid.
For we are partakers of Christ, if we keep the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end;
Then said the son of consolation, Who is Abimelech, and who are we of Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerubbesheth? and is not his chief captain? he commanded the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: why should we serve him?
And the king said unto her, Fear not; but what didst thou see? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw a god ascended out of the earth.
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart is glad in the Lord; my horn is exalted in Jehovah: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; For I rejoice in thy salvation.
Therefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And when these things were fulfilled, the priests went continually into the first tent, to fulfil the service of God.
Wherefore also of one were begotten, and that of one that had died, as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand that were by the sea-shore, were innumerable.
When Israel had grown strong, they put the Canaanites to tasklabor, and did not utterly drive them out.
And they brought near before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate, and rose up, and went on that night.
And as to the rest, brethren, as many as are true, as many as the grave, as many as righteous, as many as undefiled, as many as of good repute, if any manner of virtue; and if any praise, these things think.
saying above, The sacrifice, and oblation, and the burnt-offerings, and the sin-offering, thou shalt not do, nor delight in; according to the law shall be according to the law.
that ye may be accepted of your good things, that ye may be true and blameless until the day of Christ.
Then said I, Lo, I come, in the roll of the book it is written of me, To do thy will, O God.
And it came to pass, saying, Therefore, in my hand, in the Lord's giving and Zalmunna into my hand, I have eaten your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with the threshing instruments.
So Gezer went out before the nobles of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which is gone out of thy mouth: forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, the small one of all the tribes of Israel? and my family, the least of the families of Benjamin? why then do ye speak these words unto me?
He made it a statute and a statute for Israel from that day until now.
And Samuel called the people unto the Lord unto Mizpah.
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went into his house.
And Jonathan gave his armour to his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them into the city.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were greatly afraid.
Seeing he longed for you all, and was very troubled, because ye heard that he was sick.
For then they would have ceased to be offered: for the worshippers of them that fear themselves made no more sin to sin.
And Jonathan gave his weapons unto the lad whom he had, and said unto him, Go, carry into the city.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels; Thou crowest him with glory and honor.
Flee not therefore from this, until my coming in unto thee, and I will bring out my oblation, and put it before thee. And he said, I will abide till thy return.
to those at Beth-el, and to those in the South of the South, and to those that were in Jattir,
And they cried unto Jehovah, who raised them up a saviour, and delivered them; Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb.
And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: wherefore, behold, I pray thee, I beseech thee in the morning, and thou shalt abide in a secret place, and shalt be hid.
Take heed that no man falleth short of the grace of God; that no man groweth up like a root of bitterness causeth trouble, and by it many be defiled.
Now Hanun was speaking in her heart; her lips were moved, but her voice could not be heard, So she thought to be drunken.
Hath at the end of these days spake unto us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom he made the world.
For every one that taketh milk void of the word of righteousness is a child.
And Jehovah said to Bidkar, Yet the people too many; bring them down to the water, and I will purge it there: and it shall be, he of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, he shall go with thee: and whatsoever I shall say unto thee, This shall not go with thee; he shall not go with thee.
And God rendered all the wickedness of the men of Shechem upon their heads: and Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth fell upon them.
But thou shalt turn thee this day from thy God, who hath delivered thy salvation from all thy troubles and thy travail; and thou hast said unto him, Set a king over us: and now stand thou before Jehovah by thy tribes and by thy thousands.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth there shall no evil befall thee for this thing.
And when Saul saw David going out against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I can not tell.
For it hath been testified of him, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And the children of Israel repented of Benjamin their brother, and said, There is a day this day cut off from Israel.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and the base, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they made him drink water.
the five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Avvim that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal Hermon, unto the entrance of Hamath.
And the Philistines came out morning and evening, and offered himself forty days.
But now he hath obtained a more excellent ministration, by so much as he is the mediator of a good covenant, which is given unto the promise as unto the law.
But Hanun gave him a double portion; for Hanun loved, but Jehovah bare her womb.
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed the land of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men: all these drew the sword.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, put thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be thy father and priest: is it better for thee to serve the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?
By so much Jesus became surety of a good covenant.
Then the feet of the horses were sounding, And the stamping of their horses.
And it shall come to pass, that in the morning, when the sun is up, thou shalt arise early, and set upon the city; and, behold, when he and the people that is with him come out against thee, thou shalt do unto them as thou shalt find a occasion.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal-Tamar; and the ambush of Israel fled out of their place, out of the borders of Geba.
So Samuel would not see Saul until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul, and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And the man, the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, Unto Gibeah, which is to Benjamin, I came and my concubine to lodge.
And he opened all his heart to her, and said unto her, My head hath not touched me; for I have been separated unto God from the day of my birth: if my hair be cut off, then my strength shall depart from me, and I will faint, and will be like any other man.
And he took a young man from Succoth, and asked him; and the young man reckoned him the captains of Succoth, and his elders, seventy-seven men.
And they shall prove Israel by them, to know whether they obey the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Bohan between Ramah and Beth-el in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up unto her for judgment.
and said unto him, Fear not; for Saul my father will not deliver thee into his hand; and thou shalt be king of Israel, and I will be by thee; and Saul my father shall know this.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us that the asses were found. But the story of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken unto him, he told him not.
And Jotham escaped, and fled, and went to Beer: and he abode there, because of Abimelech his brother.
For if we have sinned, if we receive the knowledge of the truth, we shall no longer continue a sacrifice for sins:
And it came to pass on the seventh day, before he went into the chamber of the bride, that the men of the city said unto him, What is sweet than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not been plowed with my cow, ye would not have visited me.
How shall we escape, seeing so great salvation? which a beginning should be spoken by the Lord, through those that heard was confirmed unto us.
And David and his men went up, and discomfited the Geshurites, and the Meunim, and the Amalekites: for they were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, and unto the land of Egypt.
Go now, I pray you, prepare, and know, and see his place where his foot is; who hath seen him there? for he said unto me, He is very subtle.
And of this, being persuaded, I know that I shall continue and continue with you all, to be your perfecting and joy of faith.
And Achan the son said, With the jaws of the ass, and of the ass, and of the ass of the ass, I smote one thousand men.
So we perceived that they could not go in, because they believed not.
and Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, were the children of Ikkesh.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for I hear of your evil designs of all this people.
For our country is in heaven: from where the Saviour, for whom we stand, shall come, even the Lord Jesus Christ:
and gave him a piece of figs, and two cakes of raisins, and he did eat; and his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, for three days and three nights.
And Laban came to Mizpah unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and dancing: she was his only child; he had not a son or daughter save her.
And the daughters of Israel went every year to mourn the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in a year.
But now they desire a good land, that is, the heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city.
And it came to pass, that, after the likeness of Melchizedek, there arose another priest,
And as they were making their hearts glad, behold, the men of the city, some sons of Belial, beset the house round about, and beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came to Baal-perazim, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and came to Mizpah of Gilead; and from Mizpah he went over unto the children of Ammon.
And I will put this wool of wool upon the threshing-floor; if the dew be upon the fleece thereof only, and it be dry upon all the ground apart, I shall know that by my hand, as thou hast said, thou shalt deliver Israel.
And after him arose Jair a Gileadite, and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
Wherefore, having left the doctrine of the first-fruits of Christ, let us be bold unto thee, not to set again a foundation of repentance from dead works, of faith toward God;
And Saul was come from the field behind the cattle. And Saul said, What is the matter with the people, that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And Jehovah sent thee forth, and said, Go, and destroy the sinners the sinners, and fight against them, until they be consumed.
but to our God and Father glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And Jacob blessed the two sons of Joseph, when he was near unto death; and he bowed down God, and stood by his staff.
And the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, and said, The ark of the God of Israel abideth not with us, because his hand is hard upon us, and with Dagon our god.
And his sons did not walk in his ways, but turned aside to gain, and took gifts, and perverted judgment.
And he said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it now be dry upon the fleece only, and let there be dew upon all the earth.
And Saul sent messengers to the house of David to watch him, and to slay him in the morning. And Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life to-night, thou shalt be put to death.
By faith Abraham, when he was called, hearkened to go forth into a place that he went to receive for an inheritance: and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
Who shall hearken unto thee in this matter? for as his portion goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that remaineth with the vessels; they shall be alike.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And he said, I beseech thee, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why have these evils fallen upon us? and where are his signs, which our fathers have told us, saying, Jehovah brought us out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the bands of Midian.
And he said unto his servants, Behold, ye see a man that is sick: wherefore did ye bring him unto me?
And he said, Sacrifice and oblation, and burnt offerings, and oblation for sin, thou wouldest not do, neither hath mercy in it, which are offered by the law;
And it came to pass, when they were come to the land of Zuph, that Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us return, and let us return, lest my father forget concerning the asses, and be troubled about us.
And after him, Abimelech, of Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, the man of Issachar, was the saviour of Israel: he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the Philistines gathered their camp to battle, and gathered themselves to Sidon, which belonged to Judah, and encamped between Nineveh and Azekah, in the gate of Elishah.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are all the young men? And he said, The youngest is left, but, behold, he feedeth the flock. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and bring him; for we can not sit down till he come here.
How much more, do ye think that he tares, who hath trodden the Son of God under foot, and hath esteemed the blood of the covenant unclean, by which he was sanctified, and offered before the Spirit of grace?
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
For I have no man of mind, That will be mindful of thy commandments.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron; as the ark of God came unto Ekron, the Moabitess cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to kill us and to our people.
for the carcase of the beasts, whose blood is brought into the holy place of the high priest for a sin-offering, shall be burned without the camp.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines fight against me, and God is departed from me, and answered me no more, nor by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And there was no soundness before him: but all things naked and laid bare unto his eyes, with whom we have to do.
Whence shall they take wives? for we have all in hand sworn, and not to give our daughters unto them.
And David sent ten young men. And David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel, and come to the Spirit, and ask of him in my name of peace.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And Ezekiel said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? why have ye come unto me now when ye are in trouble?
And of Benjamin fell out of Benjamin, all of them men.
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers have kept, or not.
And to Sisera, he called all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the uncovering of the nations, unto the brook of Kishon.
And the thorn bush said unto the trees, If ye anoint me king over you, then came and put your trust in my shadow: and if not, let fire come out of the bramble bush, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And when the cloud rose up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamite looked behind them; and, behold, the whole city went up into smoke unto heaven.
And what do I say? for the time would fail me, and beat me on, and Bered, and Sheva, and David, and David, and Samuel, and the prophets.
And when he had finished prophesied, he came to the high place.
And it came to pass from that day and forward, that he made it a statute and a ordinance for Israel unto this day.
Who shall presume unto thee in this matter? for it shall be given to him that went to the battle and to him that standeth by the goods; they shall be all alike.
and in Hebron, and unto all the places where David and his men were alive.
Shall I take my bread and my wine and my food for my sheep, and give it to men, that I should not know whence?
And Saul encamped in the hill-country of the Canaanite, which is before the wilderness by the way. But David tarried in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And they called the name of this place Zipporah; and there they sacrificed unto Jehovah.
For there was a tabernacle made the first, wherein were the candlesticks, and the table, and the putting forth of bread, which is called the holy.
And Hamor the son of Libnah went out, and stood at the door of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from the ambush.
If any way I am at the resurrection from the dead.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man whom I spake unto thee of! this same shall reign over my people.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are thou all thy sons? And he said, There is yet a young one, that keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
who was faithful unto him that appointed him, as Moses was in all his house.
And the Philistines came to strip the slain, and found Saul and his three sons lying in mount Gilboa.
And it came to pass on the fifth day, that he rose early in the morning to go; and the father of the young woman said, Behold, I pray thee, enjoy thyself; and they lingered until the day turned away, and the two of them did eat.
And he separated thereon a little temple for the god, and made an ephod, and his censer, that he might say, A man's garment, and the teraphim; and he filled the hand of his sons, and he became his priest.
It was the people of Zebulun that shed their life, even to death, with Naphtali upon the high places of the field.
And when the men of Ashdod saw how it was, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us, for his hand is hard upon us, and with Dagon our god.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit of God fell upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David played the harp with his hand on that day, and the spear was in Saul's hand.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people into three bands; and in the morning watch they came unto the tents of the children of Ammon, and pursued them, and pursued them until the heat of the day: and they that were not slain were scattered in every side, so that none two of them were gathered together.
For he was sick, and cometh nigh to death; but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also upon me, that I should not grieve upon sorrow.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Yea, the women have been kept from these three days since I came forth, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the same is common, and the more so; for this day is sanctified in the vessels.
Then Abimelech answered the king, and said, And who is true among all thy servants as David, who is the king's son in law, and goeth at thy word, and is honorable in thy house?
And Noah said to Bidkar, Until now, thou hast mocked me, and told me falsehood: tell me what thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shalt bake the seven locks of my head with the veil.
The gift came to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of the Hebrews, that is before the wilderness?
And she said unto her, Go in peace; and let the God of Israel give thee an answer unto the prayer that thou hast made unto him.
And they both of them uncovered the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews came forth out of the holes wherein they were hid.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he came in and went out before them.
And when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And they possessed all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and came near unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
But we are not of them that draw back to destruction; but of them that believe unto the saving life of the soul.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men left, and all these words were heavy in a head, and did not follow.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
But wheresoever they were determined to go, the hand of the Lord was upon them, as he had said, and as he sware unto them; and they were greatly distressed.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did that which was right in his eyes.
Neither shall any man take glory to himself; but he that is called by God, as Aaron was.
So Saul also went into his house at Gibeah, and the people whom God had touched him went with him.
And the Jebusite, who dwelt in Jerusalem, did not dispossess the children of Benjamin; and the Jebusite dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
holding the golden incense of incense, and the ark of the covenant covered upon all sides, with gold, in which were a golden vessel, holding the manna, and the rod of Aaron that were budded, and the tables of the covenant.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart from among the Amalekites, that I destroy thee not with them: thou hast showed mercy unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenite left from among the Amalekites.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah of Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
being confident of this very thing, that he, who hath begun in you, shall be perfect unto the day of Christ Jesus.
But one of the sons of Ahitub the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped, and fled to David;
And she said, Would to God thy servant may find favor in thine eyes. And the woman went on her way, and did eat, and her countenance was not changed.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite from Bethlehem Judah, and I wait for a habitation.
But this, for that he abideth for ever, hath an eternal priesthood.
And Jacob died by faith; every man of Joseph's sons blessed, and bowed down upon his staff.
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye contend for Baal? will ye save him? he that will contend for him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself, because he hath cast down his altar.
And the Philistines fell upon Saul, and upon his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
And he said unto him, Now, when thy words come true, what shall be the life of life and work?
For we are the circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God, and glory in Christ Jesus, and trusted not in the flesh.
And David said unto Balak, Is there not here under thy hand sword or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required.
And they said unto Ezekiel, Come and be our captain, that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when he came, that there was a certain man sitting by the side of the way, because his heart was anxious about the ark of God: and the man was come to tell him in the city, and all the city cried out.
Every generation that is perfect love must continue.
For this cause it is needful for us to hear the things that are come to our ears, lest we should be driven astray.
And he said, The Lord is witness against you, and the man upon whom he hath anointed the holy oil, this day that thou hast seen no wrong in me. And they said, He is witness.
And, behold, as thy soul hath been great this day in mine eyes, so is my soul great in the sight of Jehovah, and he delivered me out of all trouble.
And they turned before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them among them.
Therefore I sware unto the house of Heli, that the iniquity of his house shall not be purged with sacrifices nor offerings for ever.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich; He bringeth low and lifted up.
And I hope in the Lord Jesus, Timothy to send unto you shortly, that I also may be of good spirit, knowing the things concerning you,
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians, and the Amorites, and the children of Ammon, and the Philistines,
And if ye will do evil, both ye and your king are consumed.
And Saul encamped in the hill of the Canaanite, which is before the wilderness by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And when the people were numbered, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
I beseech this more earnestly, in the hope of returning to you shortly.
I will shoot three arrows upon the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? thou art Saul.
But I thought to send unto thee, my brother, my brother, who hath received part with me in the work, and in the fight, and with the fight, and with thy servant, sent unto you in my want;
And thou shalt show this day what thou hast dealt well with me, forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
And it came to pass, that they went up by the way of them that dwelt in the east side of the east of Nobah, and in a couple of hissing, and smote the host; for the host was sure.
And they were stoned, and were broken, and were tempted, and died by the death of the sword; they went about in sheep, in the midst of the field, and destitute, and afflicted, and evil entreated.
And David said unto Abiathar, Behold, I knew that day the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I am surety of the death of all thy father's house.
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee.
And the king sent to call Abishai the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were at Nob: and they came all of them to the king.
For touching them that were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit:
Withhold not to hospitality to strangers; for in doing so, some have left angels without knowledge.
For when he suffered himself, being tempted, he is able to help those that are tempted.
The foot of the mighty are broken, And the trap is girded in strength.
by the way which he sanctified us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
So they sent and gathered all the nobles of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to his own place, that he may not kill us, nor our people: for there was a plague of destruction throughout all the city.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Swear to me, that ye shall not fight against me.
But if ye do evil, then ye shall be consumed, both thou and thy king.
saying, Surely I will greatly bless thee, and I will greatly multiply thee.
Now therefore take heed now, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
Out of heaven was the battle; The stars from their courses were with Sisera.
And Jehovah will render unto every man according to his righteousness and his faith; for Jehovah hath given thee this day to day, and I would not stretch out my hand against the man that was anointed with oil.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and sware, saying, Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
And it came to pass, when Saul returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
And Saul said unto David, Thou canst not go out against this of the Philistines, and fight with him: for thou art only a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
And they forgat Jehovah their God, and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
being servants of that which is a copy and a image of the things which are in heaven, as Moses, when he was about to make the tabernacle, had a charge of God: for, behold, he said, Thou makest all according to all that thou sawest in the mount.
Let our lord command, we pray thee, thy servants before thee: they seek a skilful man, playing on the harp, and it is come to pass, when God is angry with thee, that he hath played with his hand, and it is well with thee.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah; and do thou unto me whatsoever thou hast spoken; for Jehovah hath sent a full reward upon thine enemies upon the children of Ammon.
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines shouted as they met him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came greatly upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands dropped from off his hands.
Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit upon rich stripes, and walk by the way.
And David left no man, nor a woman, to bring them back to Gath, to wit, thinking that they shall not tell us, saying, David did so and so. And he did so all the days that he dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
And Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their place.
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am I not a Philistines, and ye servants to Saul? choose a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
Because the princes took the lead in Israel, because the people offered themselves willingly, blessed, Jehovah.
And the Philistines stood on the mount on the one side, and Israel stood upon the mountain on the other side; and the valley was between them.
and to those in Hebron, and to all the places where David had gone up and down, he and his men.
And one in a certain place testified fully, saying, What is man, that thou shouldest remember him, or a son of man, that thou shouldest look after him?
In Israel also said the man when he went to seek God, Come, and let us go unto the seer: for the prophet's prophet is called before the chronicles the seer.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not save you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And he said unto Joseph, I am he that came from the battle, and flee out of the field this day. And he said unto him, What is there done, my son?
And this is the covenant which I will make unto them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give my laws in their hearts, and I will write them in their mind:
And Samuel took a spear, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, saying,
And the vision was so fierce; and Moses said, I am afraid of trembling.
But Hanun gave him a double portion, because Hanun loved, though Jehovah had shut her womb.
And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the sons of the east lay in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand that is upon the sea-shore.
Jesus, even Jesus, and this day, and ever.
and put out the power of the fire, and escaped the mouth of the sword, being made strong out of diseases, he was strong in the battle, he caused to give the borders of strangers.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants together with the woman, and he spake unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
Jehovah, when thou wentest down from Seir, when thou didst march from the country of Edom, the earth trembled, the heavens poured down, the skies poured down water.
Shall a man arise to pursue thee, and to seek thy life, may the life of my lord be wrapped in the bag of the living with Jehovah thy God: but as for the life of thine enemy, he shall remove it from the skirt of the sling.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these the Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save him.
And David had taken the Jezreelitess of Jezreel to be his wife; these two were his wives.
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me where thy great strength lieth.
And he went out of the city of Beth-lehem, and desired to sojourn whithersoever he should find it for him. And when he was come to mount Ephraim, as he was on his journey, and turned aside a little to the house of men,
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the cattle, to sacrifice unto Jehovah your God: we have utterly destroyed the rest.
of whom the world was not worthy; in the deserts, and in the deserts, and in the mountains, and in the caves, and the holes of the earth;
And he returned after the days to take her; and he turned aside to see the lion's dead body: and, behold, there was a company of bees in the belly of the lion and honey.
For God is true, and will not forget thy work and thy love for his name, in the help which thou gavest, and yet give unto the saints.
Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk by the way.
And he said unto him, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me falsehood: now tell me, I pray thee, with what thou mayest be bound.
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went into his house.
As for thy asses, that were for three days, thou shalt not consider them; for they are come again. And for whom are all the desired things in Israel? are they not for thee, and thy father's family?
And every priest stand daily every day, and offering the same sacrifices many times, which are not able to take away sins.
And the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, answered, I came unto Gibeah in the land of Benjamin, I and my servant's servant; for the time was determined there for the night.
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, which is better for you, that seventy persons, all the sons of Jerubbesheth, have dominion over you, or that one man ruleth over you? and remember that I am thy bone and your flesh.
And they gave him ten weight of silver out of the house of Baal, out of the house of Baal, wherewith he hired unto himself men that were poor, and as many bonds; and they followed him.
in the saying, new, he hath made the first old, and that which is made low is old, and is old.
And that night Jehovah said unto him, Arise; go down against the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
Thou hast made him small than the angels; Thou hast crowned him with glory and honor, Thou hast set him over the works of thy hands.
And the man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law urged him; and he tarried there again.
For of more glory than Moses hath this one been reckoned worthy; because more honor than the house hath he that buildeth it.
Blessed be thou that hast kept me to day from coming to blood, And chastened me with my hand.
So the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not wickedly: for this man hath come into my house, do not this infamy.
And it came to pass after the second curtain, and after the tabernacle which is called the screen of all;
And the food of Israel shall not lie, nor repent; for he is a man to be sorry.
And because I am persuaded of this, I know that I shall continue and continue with all you for your increase and in the faith;
And he shall take thy man-servant, and thy handmaids, and your choice men, and your asses, and give them to his own work.
And it came to pass one day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the Philistines' garrison that is on the other side: but he told him not his father.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose, and departed from Keilah, and went wheresoever they were able to go. And it was told Saul, that David had escaped from Keilah; and he bare to go forth.
And he turned away from him to another, and spake like that again: and the people answered him again the same way.
But one in a certain place hath testified, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And he brought the tribute unto Eglon king of Moab; and it was a very fat man.
that said to his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which thou hadst put aside for thyself, and concerning which thou hast sworn in my ears, behold, I have, and they are with me. And she said unto him, Blessed be my son by Jehovah.
For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And he sent unto them a prophet, and said, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I made you come up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage;
And now give up the men, the sons of Belial, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel. But Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
Again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man cometh and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, was over the house. So they inquired of Jehovah, and said, Shall we go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin our brethren, or shall we cease? And Jehovah said unto them, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into your hands.
And David stopped his men with his words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou speakest with me.
And she put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the hammer of the workers; and with the hammer she smote, she smote off his head, when she had pierced and stricken through his temples.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel; and the land was left for fourscore years.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, who sent thee unto me this day:
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, Whither went thou? And they said, To seek the asses, and not finding them, we went to Samuel.
For also with my bonds ye comforteth, and ye have received the spoil of your substance with joy, knowing that ye have in yourselves a better treasure in the heavens and patience.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are these all the young men? And he said, There is yet the youngest, and, behold, he is feeding the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit at table till he come hither.
And he smote them with thigh and thigh, a great smiting, and went down, and dwelt in the cleft of the rock.
And the multitudes answered him, Thus shall it be done to the man that overcometh him.
This is the covenant which I shall command for them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will set my statutes upon their heart, and I will write them in their heart.
And behold, Saul came, following oxen out of the field, and said, What mean the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And he said unto them, Take heed, and do likewise. Behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
And if a man be risen up to pursue thee, and to seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be bound in the multitude of the living with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies shall he take him out of the hollow of the sling.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest all that Saul hath done, and how he hath plucked out the magicians and the soothsayers out of the land: why then wilt thou lay a snare for my life, that I should cause me to be put to death?
When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.
And we desire each one of you to show the same diligence for the full assurance of your hope until the end;
Moses by faith, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw that he was a child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
And it shall be, when Jehovah shall do unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and appointed thee for a prince over Israel,
And for this he ought, even as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins.
And Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves of bread, and two bottles of wine, five prepared sheep, and five measures of raisins, a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred fig-trees, and put them upon the asses.
And the men of Ziph came to Saul in Gibeah, saying, Behold, David is hid in the hill of Zoan, which is over against the wilderness.
And there were Hebrews with the Philistines before that time, which had gone up with them into the camp round about; and they also to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Atharim, king of Mesopotamia, and the children of Israel ministered, saying,
And Saul was very wroth, and was angry, and said, They have given David ten thousands; and they have given me a thousand; and what can he have more than the kingdom?
Blessed is thy understanding, and upon thee, who have kept me this day from the iniquity of blood, And avenge my iniquity.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my family, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou to me?
And David prospered in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a Levite abiding on the side of mount Ephraim, who took unto him a concubine out of Bethlehem Judah.
And the servant said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a man that is left in honor: all that he hath said, let us go there: let us go there; peradventure he can tell us that way to go.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying with David secretly, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now be the king's son.
For such is the high priest, holy, and undefiled, and undefiled, and undefiled, and be separated above the heavens.
And the house was full of men and women; and all the multitude of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof three thousand men and women, that beheld while Shema the son made sport.
that ye may judge and approve the things that are more excellent, that ye may be pure and without offence for the day of Christ;
not as though I had now obtained a reward or been made perfect: but I walk in the hope that I may come to the knowledge of that for which I was made the servant of Christ Jesus.
And with grief she wept bitterly, and she prayed unto Jehovah.
And Saul chose for himself three thousand out of Israel; and two thousand were with Saul at Michmash, and in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand of Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the remnant of the people sent every man to his tents.
Then went the son of his father, and his mother to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a young lion roared against him.
Know ye that the brother Timothy is loosed, with whom, if he come again, I will see you.
Howbeit Jonathan had not heard of the oath of his father with the army, so he extended the end of the staff which was in his hand, and dipped it into the honeycomb: then he put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes.
And God's lamp had not yet gone out, and Samuel had laid down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was;
For it is impossible for them that were once lightened, and have tasted the spiritual gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit.
Then said thus, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as is the man, so is his strength. And when he arose, he fell up, and slew abundantly and Zalmunna; and he took the moon that were upon their camels' necks.
And he said unto her, Go; and he sent her away for two months; and when she went with her, she wept, and wept in the mountains.
In that day I will perform against myself all that I have spoken concerning his house: I will begin and make an end.
And he went up from thence, and came to Penuel: and he spake unto the men of that place. And they answered him, as the men of Succoth answered.
And Enoch was interpreted, that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had interpreted to him, because he should visit the testimony that he had pleased God.
In saying before, Sacrifices, and offerings, and burnt-offerings for sin, thou wouldest not do, neither are they pleasing unto thee, which are offered after the law.
Be not led by divers and strange teachings; for it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meat, which profit not them that are in it.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth; out of the strong came forth sweetness; and they could not in three days declare the riddle.
And Saul said, Hear, thou son of Ahitub. And he said, Behold, I am, my lord.
And Jonathan arose from the table in the heat of wrath, and did not eat bread on the second day of the new moon; for he was grieved for David; for his father put him to shame.
And it came to pass through faith, they passed through the Red Sea, as by the dry land, which the Egyptians did.
And Jonathan went up on his hands and feet, and his armorbearer after him: and some fell before Jonathan, and others his armorbearer slew as he followed him.
Then Harbonah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord, let the man of God come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the name of the man was Nabal, and his wife's name was Abigail: and the woman was wise and beautiful; but the man was hardened and bad, and he was as his heart.
I will remember their sins, And their iniquities no more.
And she said, The glory is gone out of Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus is Micaiah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
For if we have sinned after we have known the truth of truth, there is no more offering for sins.
For ye came not into a mountain that might be touched, and that burneth with fire, and into blackness, and in darkness,
for they that are in Hormah, for those in sheep or in sheep,
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, And the feeble knees;
And David fled, and rose away, and came to Ramah to Samuel, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Mahanaim.
And they said, If thou sendest away the ark of the God of Israel, thou shalt not bring it without sacrifice, but send him a sin-offering with it: then thou shalt have peace again, and thou shalt know the burden of his hand from thee.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, the Ashtaroth, the gods of the Syrians, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; they left Jehovah, and served him not.
And it answered and said unto them, Shall I leave my wine, that God and men, and be great among the other trees?
And the man arose to buy, he, his concubine, and his nurse, and his father 'father of the damsel, and said unto him, Behold, the day is waxed old at the evening; I pray, I pray thee, tarry the night, the day is at a close place; and thou shalt lodge in the night hither, and enjoy thyself; and thou shalt arise early to morrow for thy journey, and go to thy house.
Jehovah maketh the poor and the rich; He humbleth and exalteth.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thine eyes, show me a sign that it is thou that speak with me.
Wherefore cause us to pass from the beginning of Christ to abound; not again that wherein it is founded, that is, the hope of the dead works, and the faith of God;
And there was a judgment of Israel for six years. And Abel the Gileadite died, and his body was buried in his city, Mizpah of Gilead.
And he returned from the graven images that were at Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Hold silent. And all that stood by him went forth from him.
And he called the name of the city of Dan after the name of their father, who was the son of Israel, which was before was called.
And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah, as one goeth to Shur, which is the east of Egypt.
And the children of Israel returned from after the Philistines, and plundered their tents.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came at the camp, that all Israel shouted, that the earth shook.
And with faith Abel offered unto God a sacrifice exceeding that of Cain, by which he obtained a testimony that he was righteous, giving testimony unto his gifts; and by it he was dead yet speaking.
And when the children of Israel saw this in the battle ( for the children of Benjamin thought they fled, and pursued them, and slew thirty men of their host.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold, thou art barren, and hast not borne children; but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And when they had taken two men of Midian Oreb and Zabbud, they smote in the rock of Oreb and Zerah in the winepress of Zerah. And they pursued after Midian, bearing the heads of Oreb and Charb beyond the waters of the Jordan.
For the blood of bulls and goats shall take away sins.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Samuel, bring me up.
And he said unto them, Micah hath done this and such for me, and hired me; and I became his priest.
And the people came to Beth-el, and waited there until evening before God, and bowed themselves to bitter weeping.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose, and departed from Keilah, and went wheresoever they were able to go. And Saul was told that David was escaped from Keilah; and he brought up thence.
And David arose, and went, he and his men, and smote among the Philistines two hundred men: and David brought in their course, and they set them before the king, to be son-in-law unto the king. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter for wife.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them into pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, Whosoever goeth not out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went forth as one man.
And the princes of the Philistines brought unto her seven cords, such as he spake, wherewith she bound him.
So Saul returned, and left David's desire, and went to meet the Philistines. For this cause they called that place the Rock of division.
And having confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your perfecting and joy of faith;
Then Saul sent the spear, and said, I will subdue David to the wall. But David urged him twice.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the travail, whose name was called ah; and his wife was barren, and without children.
So Saul took him away from him, and made him his captain over a thousand: and he went out, and came in before the people.
God hath prepared a certain thing concerning us, that they should not be made perfect.
And the Syrians said, Give thee interpretations the king of Amalek. And the Syrians came to him, saying, And Edom said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
Behold, I will put the wool of a sheep upon the threshing-floor; if there be dew upon the wool only, while all the earth be dried up, I will know that it is thy purpose to give Israel salvation by my hand as thou hast spoken.
For the blood of the bulls and of goats it is impossible to take away sins.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us unto the Canaanite at the beginning, to fight against it?
Now he was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were set, that he could not see.
By faith he that is called Abraham obeyed to go forth into a place which he was to receive for an inheritance: and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
And Jehovah called again, and Samuel. And Samuel arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called, my son: lie down again.
And the son of Birzaith said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? Is not his captain Bathsheba? he commanded the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; but why should we serve him?
Would to God, that some man would put this people under my hand, that I might remove Abimelech out of the way. And it was said unto Abimelech, Gather together the multitude of an army, and come.
And when Samuel saw Saul, and Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man of whom I have spoken unto thee, he shall have authority over my people.
Tell no more so exceedingly; Let not pride come out of thy mouth: For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him is the works of the Lord.
And his mother made him a little robe, and took it unto him every year, when she came with her husband for the year's offering.
but he did empty himself, having received the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men.
And the old man said, Peace be with you; suffer all that are needful for thee; only take not thy rest in the street.
Wherefore he ought to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful priest before God, that he might be a propitiation for the sins of the people.
but ye exhort one another day by day, as long as it is called this day, so that none of you be hardened by the error of sin.
And Jehu arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that told the woman? And he said, I am.
And there was not a skilful man found in all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make sword or spear.
Then the woman hasted, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me that day.
And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for they had despised the offering of Jehovah.
And the armed force of the Philistines went out to the narrow way of Michmas.
Then David answered and said to Abishai the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, Who said, Who shall go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
So the law which went before is put on one side, because it was weak and without profit.
If therefore ye have dealt well, and without fault with corruption and his house, rejoice this day in Abimelech, and he may rejoice in you.
Now therefore take heed therefore, and drink no wine, nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
And he restored the silver to his mother; and his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to the refiner, and made of them a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
For ye are not yet rebellious unto blood, fighting against sin:
Howbeit all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out, and went before them.
And Saul said unto his servant, Behold, we go, but what shall we bring unto the man? for the bread is gone out of our sacks, and there is no present to bring unto the man of God: what shall we have with us?
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and departed from him to her father's house to Beth-lehem Judah, and was there four months.
Now David was the son of that Ephrath the son of Pekah Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
For all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote of the people seventy men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And there remained their tents among them, all that were in the sickle even unto the entrance of Gaza; and they left nothing at Israel for food, nor sheep, nor oxen, nor asses.
For we enter into the rest that have believed; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest, although the works had been finished from the foundation of the world.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul was lying down in the way, and his spear smote the earth at his head, and the people lay round about him.
And she said unto her father, Grant me only this which I will: let me go, that I may go about the mountains for two months, and bewail my tokens with my friends.
And Judah went unto the Canaanite that dwelt in Hebron ( and the name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath-arba; and they smote Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And when the messengers were come in, they found a image upon the bed, and a he-goat's skin at his head.
And it came to pass, when he turneth his shoulder to go from Samuel, that God turned unto him another heart; and all these signs came upon that day.
And she wept before him seven days, while they had a feast; and on the seventh day he told her, because she pressed him sore; and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which is good in thy sight: tarry until thou hast weaned him; only Jehovah fulfil his word. And the woman abode, and gave her son to suck until she had weaned him.
Now in those days the Philistines gathered their forces for war to fight against Israel. And Abimelech said unto David, Thou knowest that thou shalt go out with me in the army, thou and thy men.
And he ran to Joseph, and said, Behold, I am, for thou didst call me. And he said, I called not; go ye and sleep. And he went and slept.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We are sinners: do unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee: only save us this day.
that a day was waxed strong, and with a mighty hand he took up to Jabin king of Canaan, until they utterly destroyed him.
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? for whom seekest ye? for a dead dog, a moth.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him, and he shall die, and he shall go into the battle, and he shall die.
And here, men that die, receive ye; but there he witness, that he liveth.
And Saul said, Bring hither all the corners of the people, and know, and see by whom this sin hath happened.
Let nothing be done by strife, or aboundeth; but in the lowly of mind let each one value than themselves.
so that my bonds be made manifest in Christ in all the Praetorium, and to all others;
Now therefore return, and go in peace, lest thou make the lords of the Philistines angry.
And they told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they prophesied also; and Saul continued again, and sent messengers a third time, and they prophesied also.
Awake, awake, and awake; awake, awake; cry up; arise, and draw up; and take away captive, thou son of Jerubbesheth.
And she put her left hand to the nail, and her right hand to the hammer of the workman; and she smote him, and sought in his head a place for the wound, and caused them to stumble through his temples.
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of the things which were to be spoken after.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and served the Baalim.
Jehovah be the judge, and judge between me and thee, and let him see and plead my cause: let him judge me against thee.
And David's servants came to Abigail to Carmel, and said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee as his wife.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people sure, and to a great land; for God hath given it into your hand; a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth.
Then he took ten of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him; but he feared to do it by day, because of his father's people and the men of the city, and did it by night.
And he departed from the prophets, and came into the house.
and his mother made a small coat to him, and she brought it up to him from time to time, when she went up with her husband to sacrifice the sacrifice of the time.
And the son of Joash, the son of Joash, dwelt from the battle.
who fashion the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working of his power, in subjection to himself all things.
And Zeresh the Edomite, who was set over the servants of Saul, said, I saw the son of Jesse come to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send unto me David thy son, who is with the flock.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he greatly oppressed the children of Israel.
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and set a ambush in the valley.
without father, without mother, without genealogies, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life, but made like the Son of God, abideth a priest continually.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim heard that the Philistines fled, and they also followed after them in the battle.
For if the first covenant was as good as possible, there would not have remained a second.
And they compassed round about the Gileadites, and chased them, and trampled them down at their resting place, as far as unto Gibeah toward the sunrising.
For he did not subject to angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
And Deborah said unto Bidkar, Up, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand: is not Jehovah gone out before thee? So ran down quickly from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And the children of Benjamin numbered that day out of the cities was twenty and six thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
and watch and see, when the daughters of Shiloh dance in the dances, come out of the vineyards, and take a wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And it came to pass, when they were by Jebus, that the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
For whom Jehovah loveth him, he maketh life, and chastened every son whom he receiveth.
who hath been made, not according to the law of the flesh, but according to the power of an perpetual life:
And it came to pass, when all that knew him aforetime, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then said the people one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
And they sent messengers secretly to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Obed, the son of Obed, is come unto Shechem with his brethren, and set the city against thee.
And David was the youngest, and the three elder followed Saul.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to reproach Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man that smiteth him, the king will increase him with great riches, and shall give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And they said unto him, Nay, we will bind thee, and give thee into their hand; we will surely kill thee. So they bound him with two rough cords, and brought him up from the rock.
And he sent messengers into all Manasseh; and it was called after him; and he sent messengers into Asher, and into Zebulun, and into Naphtali; and they came to meet them.
Woe unto us! who can deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the same gods, that smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness.
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us three days' rest, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel: and if there be no man to save us, we will come out unto thee.
and my God shall supply all your need, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus:
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath hewn down the Asherah that was by it.
In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of Shechem sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for all their inheritance fell not unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And they were near Jebus, and the day was gone down; and the young man said unto his lord, Come, I pray thee, and let us go to this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And when the time was fulfilled, she returned unto her father, and he did unto her as he had vowed, and knew no man. And from thence came a fashion in Israel, and a ordinance was kept.
and see, and visit all the ambush where he hideth himself, and come unto me again with sure record, that I may go with you; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout the thousands of Judah.
Then said Micaiah, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, because I have the Levite for the priest.
And the border of the Amorite was from the ascent of the scorpion, the rock, and the high places.
Then said he, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
When thou goest from me to-day, thou shalt meet two men by Rachel's grave in the border of Benjamin at the border of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek; and, behold, thy father hath sent the matter of the asses, and is careful about you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And Jehovah said unto Hanun, The people are yet too many, bring them to the waters, and there will I try them: and of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, let him go; whom I shall go, let him return.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou give them into the hand of Israel? And he did not answer him in that day.
For of the angels of angels said he, Thou art my Son: this day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be his father, and he shall be my son?
But to what we are come, walk by the same commandment, even the same thing;
And David said unto Abiathar the son of Shelemiah, Bring me hither the ephod unto me. And Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey, and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my riddle.
Then Saul fell down on the ground, and was afraid because of Samuel's words; and there was no strength in him, for he did not eat all that day nor all that night.
And they put away strange gods from among them, and served Jehovah: and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
For he of whom these are said of another tribe, of which no man hath offered at the altar.
And may ye, while I live, ye shall be gracious unto me, as Jehovah is gracious, and keep me from death.
And Saul said, God do so, and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
but ye comfort one another every day as long as it is yet day; that no one may be made hard by error of you.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come unto us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be good unto them for our sakes, because we have not reserved to each man his wife in the war: for ye gave not to them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
And the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast begotten a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
And the battle was hardened against Saul, and the archers found him, men with bow; and he was distressed greatly by the archers.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel: and when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Stay with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; For with me thou art in safety.
Did I begin to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute any thing to his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
And after Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, both men and women, young and young men, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And they took their bones, and buried them under the grove, in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen that Jehovah had delivered thee unto day into my hand in the cave; and some bid me slay thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion which I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
And Jehovah said unto him, Behold, there are more people than is necessary; bring them down to the water, that I may put them to try thee there; and whosoever I say shall go with thee; and whosoever I say, I shall not go.
And the angel of Jehovah came to the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, if thou hast not born children, thou shalt be with child, and shalt bear a son.
And Jonathan spake good of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been very good toward thee.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, upon Sin and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
And Samuel lay till the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show the Archite.
And Harbonah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Caleb: and the law joined up with thah, and they went out with him.
And he had forty sons and thirty son, who rode upon seventy asses, and he reigned for Israel eight years.
And the princes of the Philistines assembled together, to offer great sacrifices to shear their god, and to make merry, saying, Our god hath delivered our enemy, the son of our hands.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel; and the land was left for fourscore years.
But after the dead, the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot with the Baalim; and they made a covenant with Baal, that he might be their gods.
And he knew not what he did: for Jonathan and David knew the matter.
For the daughters of Israel went and lamented the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite forty days of the year.
So from that day and above, he made it a statute and a ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And it came to pass, that Joshua rose up early and all the people with him, and all the people with him, unto the fountain that is called; and the camp of Midian was in the valley on the north side of the high mountain.
Wherefore I was angry with this generation, and I said, Surely in all times their heart faileth, and they know not my ways;
And this word, yet once more, justified those things that are moved, as of the things that are made, that the things which can not be shaken may remain.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. Then Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him, as before.
And Samuel took Saul, and his young man, and brought them into the chamber, and gave them a place at the head of those that were called; and they were about thirty men.
And the Philistines assembled to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a host, as the sand that is on the sea-shore. And they came up, and encamped at Michmash, east of Beth-Aven.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba: and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
It was told the Syrians, saying, Gabriel is come in hither. And they went round about night all night at the gate of the city, and kept their peace all the night, saying, Until the light of the morning, we kill him.
But the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt: neither did we not discern anything, as long as we went with them, when we were in the fields.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me.
And Achan the son said, With the jaws of an ass, heaps upon heaps; with the jaws of an ass I have slain a thousand men.
And the wife of Eber took the tent of the tent, and took the hammer in her hand, and went unto him softly, and smote the nail into his temples, and lay hold on the earth: and he was hungry, and was weary, and he died.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and the fame of it came to Abimelech.
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Rise up, kill them. But the child drew not his sword: for he was afraid because he was yet a child.
And the Amorite smote the children of Dan in the mountain, and gave them not to go down to the Arabah.
And the woman came at the dawning of the day, and fell at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
And Jonathan arose from the rage of jealousy, and ate not the second day of the new moon, because he grieved David, because his father had mocked him.
And the woman came to Saul ( for he was very much troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy maid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand; and I hearkened unto the words which thou commandedst me.
And again continued to speak, and said, Behold, the people shall come down from the top of the land, and another men shall come by the way of the oak of Millo.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah: for all shall know me from the least to the greatest of them:
For every commandment spake according to the law by Moses unto all the people, taking the blood of the bullocks, and of the goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, he both sprinkled the book, and all the people.
For though ye ought to be teachers by this time, ye have need of men to teach you again the beginning of the revelations of God, and ye have need of milk, not of meat.
And Abigail saw David, and hasted, and came down from the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed down upon the ground.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
and she sware, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt remember the anguish of thy servant, not turning away from me, but keep me in mind, and will give me a man-child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and his hair shall not be cut off.
And when Saul saw David going out against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I can not tell.
constant my joy by the same mind, having the same love, being in unity and in one mind;
Be free from the love of money, and of the things that ye have: for he hath said, I will be with you at all times.
And at that time, when they were in Shiloh, there was none of them found there.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: ye shall not fear the gods of the Amorite, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not hearkened unto my voice.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in a troop.
So David's young men turned their way, and went again, and came and told him all these words.
And the woman came as the morning appeared, and she fell at the door of the man's house, where her master was until the sun.
Here I am: testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I hurt? or whom have I hurt? or of whose hand have I received any ransom, and blind mine eyes? and I will restore it unto you.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Know ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king.
Then comforteth the Edomite, who is set over the servants of Saul, and said, I have seen the son of Jesse come to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
On the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa.
And it came to pass, when he had sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take from them the waters up to Beth-maacah and the Jordan. And he called out all the men of Ephraim, and they took the waters up to the Syrians and the Jordan.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me this day; and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon David from that day; and Samuel arose, and went to Ramah.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and took the city, and the people that he had slain, and brake down the city, and sowed it salt.
And the hand of the children of Israel increased against Jabin king of Canaan, until he was cut off.
for he was accounted worthy of more glory than Moses, because he that built the house hath more honor than the house.
Yea, I beseech thee also, brethren of truth, assist them, who have contended with me in the gospel, with the women also and my fellow-workmen, whose names are in the book of life.
which hope we have as a stock of the soul, both sure and faithful, and that entereth into that within the veil;
And Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel; and the land was fourscore years.
And Sheva the son went down to Timnath, and saw a woman from the daughters of the Philistines.
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king, and the heart of the spirit of the spirit of the spirit; for he was very drunken: and she told him nothing or more until the morning.
then thou shalt go on thence, and when thou comest to the oak of Tabor, thou shalt see three men going up to God to Beth-el, having with him three kids of goats, and another three cakes of bread, and another of wine;
This is the covenant which I will establish toward them after those days, saith Jehovah: he that giveth my laws into their hearts, I will write them also in their own affliction.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I go again to battle with the sons of Benjamin, my brother, or do I forbear? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver him into thy hand.
And Saul commanded his servants to speak unto David, saying, Behold, thou delightest the king, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son in law.
Who through faith smote kingdoms, and did righteousness, and kept the mouth of lions,
But the Spirit of Jehovah came on, and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered together to follow him.
in which God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of the promise, the preacher of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath:
They fought from heaven; The stars in their course fought against talking.
Moreover, behold, and know, O my father, the skirts of thy robe in my hand, that when I cut off the skirt of thy robe, I would not put out my hand against thee. I would not put out my hand against thee. So that there was no evil in my hand, nor iniquity, neither have I sinned against thee: but thou liest in wait for my life, to take it away.
Then said Saul to the people that were with him, Gather up now, and see that is gone from us. And they counted, and, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
Cast out the power of fire, and escape from the edge of the sword, and prevailed against the feeble, and prevailed in battle, and put to flight the hosts of the nations.
And Saul said, Cast me betwixt me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
And from the day that the ark abode at Kiriath-jearim, the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, that I may give thy flesh to the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would obey the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
who ministered unto a example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was warned of God, when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern shewed unto thee in the mount.
One rock went up before the north, At Michmash, and toward the south, before Geba.
And Abimelech answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in mine eyes as an angel of God: only the princes of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us into the battle.
But not a man put his hand to his mouth in the fear of the curse.
And Ezekiel said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? and why come ye to me now when ye are in trouble?
We shall come to a people that is secure in a large land, and Jehovah will deliver the place unto us, in which there is no lack of any thing that groweth upon the earth.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with rods? And the Philistines feared David by his gods.
And between the passages, that Jonathan had sought to go over unto the Philistines' garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other.
For God worketh in you both the willing and working according to good will.
And that night God did so; for the wool was dried up, and there was dew upon all the earth round about.
until now thou hast not shed thy blood in your fight against sin.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me pass over, I pray thee, through thy land, and the king of Edom hearkened not; and also to the king of Moab had sent, and he was not willing: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
and leave the blood of the slain of the children of Jerubbesheth, and the blood of their blood upon Abimelech their brother, and over the rest of the princes of the Zerahites, who took him.
And it was told Saul, that David was come unto Keilah: and Saul said, Jehovah hath delivered him into my hand, and he is shut up, and is come into a city, gates and bars.
And before the light of God went out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And he put his hand into his sack, and took a stone, and cast it with the knife, and covered it, and smote the Philistines in the forehead: and the stone was fastened in his forehead, and he fell upon his face upon the earth.
Wherefore, seeing we are round about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay apart every weight, and the sin which doth so constrasheth us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us.
But if thou be afraid, go down to the camp with thy servant, with thy servant;
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you, because I have ye in my heart, inasmuch as I have in my bosom, inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defense, and in the gospel, ye all partake of my grace.
And I will draw unto thee unto the valley of Kishon, to Sisera, the captain of the host of Jabin, and his chariots, and his multitude, and will deliver him into thy hand.
What shall come upon us, if we will not know such a great salvation? for the salvation of which our fathers first had known through the words of the Lord, and which was made known unto us by whom his words came;
For it is like the sin of witchcrafts, to rebel; and as the trespass of the idols, to refuse to obey: therefore as thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, the Lord hath rejected thee from being king.
So God will do so, and more more than the adversaries of David, if I leave of all that belongeth unto him until the morning, every one that lieth upon the wall.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, keep your hearts and your mind in Christ Jesus.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go and go down upon the mountains, and bewail my tokens, I and my companions.
But Hanun went not up; for she said unto her husband, Once the child is weaned, I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah; and he shall abide there for ever.
Do nothing through strife, or by want, but in meekness, and every one that counted other than himself.
For I will be merciful toward their doings; Neither will I remember their sins any more.
It repented me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned away from following me, and hath not fulfilled my words. And Samuel was much vexed, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
but my God shall take all your need according to his riches in glory through Christ Jesus.
So I sware in my wrath, If they enter into my rest.
According to my readiness hope and hope, that I will be put to shame in nothing, but with all boldness, even as always Christ shall be exalted in my body, whether through life or through death.
But a prophetess did not go up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go till the child be weaned, and till I may carry him, that he may appear before the Lord, and abide always there.
And he put to the sword the city of the priests, from man to woman, from the child to the child, and the ox, and the ass, and the sheep, all to the sword.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath delivered us, and given the troop that came against us into our hand.
And Hamor the son of Hassenuah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their faith in him.
And the Asherim dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for it did not dispossess them.
Thou wilt look at the anguish of my dwelling place: Thou wilt despise all the good made for Israel; But there shall be no old man in thy house for ever.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me from the lion's hand, and from the hand of the bear, shall deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And God sent a evil spirit between Abimelech and the city of Shechem; and the city of Shechem were false unto Abimelech;
And Jehovah delivered him with all his army into the hand of Israel, and slew him, and possessed all the land of the Amorites the inhabitants of that country.
And Samuel was judge of Israel all the days of his life.
And Samuel said, What is what more than the sheep in mine ears, and the cattle that I hear?
So therefore, O king, remember thy soul, and come down, and we will deliver him into the king's hands.
And Saul had compassion, even the people, upon Agag, and upon the flocks, and of the herds, and of the second cattle, and upon the lambs, and upon all that is good, and would not utterly destroy them; and all the work were despised and consumed, they utterly destroyed.
And when these signs come to thee, do for thyself what thy hand findeth to do; for God shall be with thee.
Whosoever shall first come forth out of the doors of my house, and shall meet me when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, then I will offer a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the chief of the Philistines said, What are the Hebrews? and Joab said unto the heads of the Philistines, Is not this David servant of Saul king of Israel, who hath been with me these days or these years, neither have I found in him any day from the day of his fall, until this day.
And go not from the way to the idols of idols, wherein there is no profit, nor save; for they are false.
I am bold to the mark, unto the perfecting of the manifold fulness of God in Christ Jesus.
So Libnah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head, and chief over them; and hahaah said all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And he kept the passover, and the blood of blood, that he that destroyed the first-born should not touch them.
And the handle also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the sickle; because he drew not back the sword from his belly; and it went out the back.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in mine hand?
And David and his men went up, and invaded the Geshurites, and the Maacathites, and the Amalekites: for these nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
And the trees went, to anoint a king over themselves; and they said unto the olive tree, Be ruler over us.
And the destroyer went out of the camp of the Philistines, three drove: the same band went into the way of Ophrah unto the land of Libnah.
And the men of Israel said to the banquet, Be king over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Midian.
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide any thing from me of all things that he spake unto thee.
And the rod of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him.
Then the elders of the assembly said, What shall we do of women for the rest of them, seeing that the women of Benjamin are dead?
It is a desolation to fall into the hands of the living God.
And I will send a child, saying unto him, Go, fetch me the arrows.
And David said unto his men, Put on your swords, every one of you; and every man put on his sword; and David did the same; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred watched over their substance.
Now she had spied in wait in the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son; and he brake the cords, as a thread of tow was broken when it toucheth the fire; and his strength was not known.
So therefore, hand over the men, the unrighteous lot, which are in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and put away this wickedness from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
And the sons of Belial said, Shall this man be able to save us? And they despised him, and brought him no offering; but he dealt deceitfully as though he heard not.
And they went down from the high place into the city, and spake with Saul upon the top of the house; and he prepared Saul's bed upon the top of the house, and he slept.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts sitting upon the cherubim, and the two sons of meeting, and Ophni and Phinehas, with the ark of the covenant of God.
And all these died in faith, having not received the promises, but seeing them, and embraced them from afar, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
And Samuel said to the boil, Bring the portion which I gave thee, whereof I said unto you, Set it away.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trod them, and held a feast. And they went into the house of their god, and they ate and drank, and cursed Abimelech.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-aven; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; but the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of the suburbs were subject to taskwork.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
Then the horse burieth for the harp, And the shaking of their mighty ones.
If thy father sinneth me at all, then thou shalt say, My servant earnestly required me to run unto Bethlehem his city; for there is a offering for all the family.
And when the people were come into the forest, behold, honey was dropping, but no man putteth his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
I am not mad, that ye have brought in this one to act mad by me: doth this man come into my house?
But the child knew not what went on; only Jonathan and David knew it.
and may be found in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness of God in the faith.
Go and cry unto the gods whom thou hast chosen: let them deliver thee in the time of thy trouble.
Take therefore thy stand, that I may judge thee before Jehovah with all the works of the righteousness of Jehovah which he hath done with both thou and thy fathers.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: leave me alone two months, that I may go and go down to the mountains, and bewail my tokens, I and my companions.
And being perfected, he became, to all that obey him, the reward of eternal salvation.
But I am in a dispensation of the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better.
For Jehovah will do unto thee as he spake by me, and he will rend thy kingdom out of thy hand, and will give it unto thy neighbor David:
And they told to spy the son of Cushan, that they had come up unto mount Tabor.
For thou art with child, and shalt bring forth a son; his hair shall not be cut off; for the child shall be separated from his birth; and he shall bear the work of Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and had departed from Saul.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with three bullocks, and one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was young.
For he was yet yet in the bosom of his father, when he did him.
In those days there is no king in Israel; every man doeth that which is right in his own eyes.
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went every man to possess the land.
where your fathers tempted me by trial, and saw my works
How much more, if the people had well eaten of the spoil of their enemies which they have found; for now the plague hath not been great among the Philistines.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people answered him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David encouraged himself in Jehovah his God.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Achan the son said unto his father, Get her for me; for she pleased me well.
And the men did so; they took two kine, and set them to the cart of the cart, and besieged them.
And it came to pass, because she grieved him with her words all the days, and besought him, and his soul was grieved unto death.
For rebellion is the transgression of divination, and the abomination and the idols shall be: because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
And all the rest of thy household shall come to bow down before him for a piece of silver, or a loaf of bread, and say, Give me, I pray thee, to one of the priest's office, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
But the man would not tarry the night; and he rose up and departed, and came before the Hebrew, that is, Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine was with him.
who in the days of his flesh, prayers and supplications unto him that was able to save him from death, with strong crying and tears, having offered up, and heard that which he feared;
They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to boil for the priest; for he shall not have boiled flesh of thee, but herb.
And after him Abdon the son of Kittim, the Pirathonite, the judges of Israel,
So they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of the Maon, in the Arabah, on the south of the wilderness.
And many have become priests, because they were visited by death.
Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, which went up with them into the camp round about, even they also went to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And Adoni-zedek said, Seventy kings having their fingers and their fingers cut off, and gathered the food of the flesh under my table; as I have done, so hath God rewarded me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
And the king sat on his throne, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
And when he entered into his house, he took a knife, and took hold of his concubine, and cut her into twelve pieces; and he sent her throughout the whole border of Israel.
What thou hast done is not good. By the living, Jehovah liveth; for thou hast not spared thy lord, the man upon whom Jehovah hath anointed the holy oil. Behold, where is the king's spear, and the water which was by his head?
For their cattle, and their tents shall come up as a great number of locusts; they and their camels could not be numbered; they came into the land, and devoured it.
And David answered and said to Abishai the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah Joab's brother, Who said, Who shall go down with me unto Saul unto the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
And the young men of David turned their way, and turned back, and came in, and told him according to all these words.
For some that heard did wrath; but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very weary.
And the name of Saul's wife's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the head of his host Abner the son of Ner, the brother of Saul,
And he changed his way before them, and made himself mad in their hands, and smote the doors of the gate, and his arrow fell down upon his beard.
according to all the works which they have done from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me and served other gods, so do they also to thee.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself unto Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
And he said, This is the manner of king that shall be thy governor: he shall take thy sons, and appoint his servants, his horsemen, and his chariots, and they shall run before his chariots;
He shall take thy servants and thy handmaids, and the best of thy oxen and thy asses, and put them into his work.
And Benjamin went out from Gibeah to meet them on the second day; and they smote the children of Israel again, eighteen thousand men unto the ground: all these were lifted up captive.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart: turn thee: behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be next unto thee; and that Saul my father knoweth.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, together with the overseers and officers:
And when horsemen was come unto him, he sat in the upper room of the wall which he had for himself; and he said, I have said, I have said, I have said, I am a word of God. And he arose from the throne.
And his fellow said, This is nothing other than the sword of the sword of Joash a man of Israel: and God hath delivered the Midianites into his hand, with all the host.
And a man said, And who is their father? therefore it was a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before, and that went up with them into the camp, from all round about, even they also went to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
and again I will put my trust in him; and again, I and my children, whom God hath given me.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And when the men came in, there was a graven image in the bed, and the hair of a goat's hair,
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; for we have two have sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And David went away, and Jonathan went into the city.
And he turned from him unto another, and said according to this word, and the people returned him word as the first word.
And the priest said, Behold, the sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou smoowest in the valley of Mahlon, and wrapped up in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take this, take it, for there is no other but this. And David said, There is none like that, give me me.
And this hope is like a strong girdle for our souls, set up and certain, and that which is within the veil;
For he taketh not the angels, but taketh hold of the seed of Abraham.
And it came to pass, while he spake unto them, that the name whose name was Goliath the Philistines from Gath, came up from the holes of the Philistines: and he spake as he had before, and David heard his words.
And Jehoshaphat the son of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, arose, and fled after David.
And the children of Israel put away the Baalim and the idols, and served Jehovah only.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not upon his face, or in the height of his stature, because I have cast him off; for I see not as man seeth: for man looketh upon the face, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the flame of his spear six hundred shekels of iron, and the shield went before him.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come, we may honor thee?
And when she was come to her husband, she said unto him, A man of God came to me, having the countenance of an angel exceeding great. And when I asked him that he was, and whence he came, and whence he was called, he would not tell me.
As I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.
And when the men of Israel departed in the battle, Benjamin began to smite and slew of the men of Israel about thirty persons: for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us as in the first battle.
And his mother made him a little coat, and brought it unto him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to sacrifice the burnt-offering.
Now David and Jonathan made a covenant, For he loved him as his own soul.
And the ark of Jehovah dwelt in the land of the Philistines seven months.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing which Jehovah will do in your sight.
And it shall be according to the law of the law, that of the sons of Levi, that have the office of priests's office of the sale of the possession of the people; that is to say, They shall take it from their brethren, though these are the sons of Abraham.
And she said, Thy servant have found favor in thine sight. And the woman went away, and took the feast, and her countenance was no more sad.
And the man went from the city of Beth-lehem in Judah, to sojourn as a sojourner whithersoever he could find a place. And he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to get his journey.
And when he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the presentation were shut up, they said, Surely he hath covered his feet in his summer chamber.
And if the fathers of our flesh justified us, and had our mind, how much more shall we be under the power of the Father of spirits, and live?
And his servants told David these words; and the thing was right in David's sight to be the king's son: and the days were not fulfilled.
For my father hath fought for you, and hath cast away his life from, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian.
And it was circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, an Hebrew of the Hebrews, according to the law, a Pharisee:
And the Philistines fought against Israel, and the battle was hardened: and Israel prevailed against the Philistines, which smote the sword round about their host in the field.
But ye have rejected your God, who alone hath saved you out of all your evil and your afflictions; and ye have said, No, but set a king over us. Now therefore stand before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your families.
And Jehovah said to Bidkar, There are yet yet many people; bring them down to the water, and I will prove them there: and it shall be, that I say unto thee, This shall go with thee; and he shall go with thee; and whosoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, that shall not go with thee;
Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the host of Jehovah? for they had bound themselves with a great oath, when they were in Mizpah, that whosoever would be put to death.
So that we may be like all the nations, and our king may rule us, and go out before us, and fight against us.
Let us therefore go out unto him without the camp, and bear his reproach.
But he returned from the idols of Gilgal, saying, I have somewhat to say unto thee in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be quiet. And all that were waiting before him went out.
Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren: I will sing thy praise among the congregation.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they sought it, they said, Behold, the son of Joash hath done this thing.
Now David was the son of Ish-bosheth, the son of Beth-lehem Judah, before their name, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons, and was old in the days of Saul, and of great age among men.
Every high priest, that is taken from among men, is given his office to avenge all the things that are to do with God, that he may sacrifice for sins.
of the teaching of baptizing, taking on part of hands, from resurrection also of the dead and eternal judgment;
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, every man went unto his own house.
The inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased to cease in Israel, until that I arose to soon, that I arose a mother in Israel.
And they said unto him, Say now, And he said unto him, Smite thee, and he said, He was not able to declare it right: then they seized him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time, forty thousand of Ephraim fell.
But the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about.
For there shall be a tumult unto them that are dead, since it is never in power, when he that hath made the will of the will of his soul liveth.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and note them that walk this way, even as ye have us for a example.
Therefore rained there also of one, and him as it were dead, so many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the shore by the shore.
Howbeit we are not of them that go back to destruction: but of them that have faith unto the salvation of the soul.
And so it came to pass, that all that were slain of Benjamin in divers places were five and twenty thousand armed men, mighty men of valor.
And she hasted and ran unto her husband, and told him, saying, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me whom I saw.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath appointed him ruler over his people; for thou hast not kept what Jehovah commanded thee.
Now go and smite Amalek, and destroy utterly all that they have, and spare them not, but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and sheep.
and went round the land of Edom on the side, and the land of Moab, and came over against the east border of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon: and he would not enter into the bounds of Moab.
But the child Samuel advanced, and grew on, and pleased both the Lord and men.
And it came to pass, when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father 'father's father, said unto him, Behold, now the day cometh to the evening, and tarry all night: behold, the day is ended: tarry here, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow go on thy way early, that thou mayest go home.
And as he spake with them, behold, there came up the breaches, the Philistines of Gath, whose name was called by name, out of the host of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.
I know how to be humbled, and I know how to abound: in everything and in all things I have learned the mystery both to be filled, and to be hungry, both to abound and to want.
And they cried out after them: and they looked, and said to him, What aileth thee? why criest thou?
And when the citizens of that place saw him, they brought him thirty men with him.
And all Israel was known from Dan to Beer-sheba that Samuel had been a prophet of Jehovah.
And now return, and go in peace; and thou shalt do no evil in the sight of the princes of the Philistines.
So Abimelech, and all the host that was with him, rose up by night, and lodged against Shechem in the midst of Shechem.
By faith Joseph died, concerning the departure of the children of Israel made mention, and commanded concerning his bones.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul's tents were: and David saw the place where Saul slept with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host: and Saul slept in the chamber of the wagons, and the camp of the people were round about him.
And he was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes stood, and he could not see.
So Hanun arose, when he did eat in Shiloh, and drinking; and there was a priest sitting on the throne by the side posts of the temple of Jehovah.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So David hid himself in the field. When the moon came, the king sat at the feast.
waiting from now until his enemies be laid under his feet.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to shear their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath given the enemy to the hand of our hand.
And the young man arose to set his wife and his servant. And his father in law spake unto him again, saying, See that the day is prolonged, and cometh toward even: tarry with me to-day also, and spend the day in mirth, and to-morrow thou shalt go into thy house.
And Enoch said unto him, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and hast told me a false thing; but now tell me what thou mayest be bound.
And it came to pass the same night, that the Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down to the host; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And she called Samuel, and said, And Samuel, my son! And he said, Here am I.
And when Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And the ark of God was taken; and the ark of Jehovah and Phinehas the sons of Ish-bosheth were slain.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man? who is like thou in Israel? why hast thou not spared thy lord the king? for one of the people came to destroy the king thy lord.
And David rose early in the morning, and brought the sheep into the care of the keeper, and went, and went as the king of Jesse; and he came unto the posts of the stairs, when the troop went out to the battle.
That which cometh out of the vine she shall not eat; and wine and strong drink she shall not drink, neither shall she eat any unclean thing: all that I have commanded her she shall keep.
Now I will make known unto you, brethren, that I have made known the gospel of the gospel.
Even so Christ also hath not glorified himself to be chief priest: but he that spake unto him, Thou art my Son, I have begotten thee to-day.
Then they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul; and David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon in the Arabah, to the south of the wilderness.
In burnt-offerings and the sin-offering thou didst not delight.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had been their Saviour from all their enemies round about.
And what Samuel had spoken to all Israel; and Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped by Rithmah; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And the sore was made for the work which they had done: and Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth came upon them.
And there came a man of God to Joseph, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Did I not clearly appear to thy father's house, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharaoh?
But though I be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with you all.
And Saul was told that David had been seen, and the men that were with him: now was Saul in Gibeah sitting under the tree in the high place, with his spear in his hand; and all his servants stood before him.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives for themselves, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they carried away; and they went and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
So David arose, and fled that day for the fear of Saul, and went to Ahijah the king of Gath.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah when they were attacked.
And Saul said unto his servant, Thy word is very good: come, let us go. And they went into the city, where the man of God was.
And the priest's custom with the people was, that when any man offered sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, while the flesh was in boil, with a hook of three teeth in his hand;
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David hastened to depart for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
though I have confidence in the flesh. If any man thinketh that he hath confidence in the flesh, I yet yet:
Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David saw the place where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host: and Saul lay within the wagons, and the people were encamped round about him.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and notable fellows, who followed him.
And when he saw that he saw her, he sent unto the chief of the Philistines, saying, Come up to the chiefs of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time; for he hath put forth all his heart unto me. Then the princes of the Philistines came to her, with the money in their hand.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things to you not trouble me, but is a guard for you.
And it came to Ramoth-gilead, and came as far as the great pit, which is in Succoth, and asked, and said, In what place are Samuel and David? and it was told him, Behold, they are at Ramoth-gilead.
And the land rested forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until there was no strength in them to weep.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and let us go out of the city into the highways.
And Samuel returned after Saul: and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Thou hast put all things under his feet: for in that he hath subjected all things to him, he hath not left nothing to him: but now we see not as yet all things subject to him.
And he circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, a Pharisee;
And have ye altogether forgotten the exhortation that instruct you as children? My son, make not the light of the chastening of the Lord, nor give up when thou art instructed by him.
And he sent, and brought him in; and he was white with eyes, and well favoured. And Jehovah said, Arise, and anoint him, for he is.
And Israel was in great famine because of Midian: and the cry of the children of Israel went up unto Jehovah.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay, but we bind thee, and have given thee into their hand, and we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two thick bands, and brought him out of the rock.
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will discover ourselves unto them.
And Achan said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed up with his loins, and the house fell upon the princes, and upon all the people that were therein, and the dead whom he slew in his death, more than they died in his life.
that there is yet a great statute for the people of God.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why is he put to death? what hath he done?
And he sent and brought him in. And he was white, and besides a beloved countenance, and a goodly appearance. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
And the children of Ammon sounded together, and encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come to bow himself unto him for a hire of silver, and a cake of bread, and shall say, Let me please me, I pray thee, unto one of the duty of the priest, to eat a piece of bread.
For the end of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defence of the gospel.
And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, in all the substance which God shall give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and prospered: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was pleased in the sight of all the people, and also before the eyes of Saul's servants.
And after all that generation were gathered unto their fathers, another generation rose after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor the work which he had done for Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God which he commanded thee; for now would Jehovah have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
Then Abimelech, and the armies that were with him, brake out, and stood at the entrance of the city gate; and the two companies brake down upon all that were in the field, and slew them.
For he looked for the strong city, that built up and made God.
And David said unto Abiathar, I was a day that day, when the persecutest was there, that he would bring the tidings unto Saul: I am surety for the live of all thy father's house.
And they called the name of that place, and there was a offering to Jehovah.
And Ezekiel sware unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hands,
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baals, and the grave: but now deliver us from our enemies, and we will be thy servants.
And they answered them, and said, There is: behold, he is just before you: make haste now, because he is come to the city this day; for there is a sacrifice for the people to day at the high place.
but only a great fear of being judged, and the fire of wrath, which shall be destroyed with the enemies of God.
And he said, I have sinned: I now glorify me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And the fortress of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw that the multitude returned and went forth.
And it came to pass, when he departed from Samuel, that God gave him a change heart: and all that signs were laid on that day.
And Jehovah will render unto every man his righteousness and his truth; for Jehovah hath given thee into hand this day, and I would not stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And Jehovah opened the ear of Samuel one day before the coming of Saul, saying,
Having withdrawn therefore after the beginning of Christ, let us move on unto stature, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God;
Neither, I pray thee, let not my lord set his heart against this evil man, the Nabal of Nabal; for as his name, so is he; and the name of Nabal is his name, and folly is with him. But I, thy handmaid, saw not the young men of my lord whom thou sentest.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months, and she went with her friends, and she mourned over her virginity upon the mountains.
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine also was with him.
And if they had been mindful of that which they came forth, they might have a opportunity to return.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.
And it came to pass, when Israel waxed strong, they put the Canaanites to tasklabor, but they did not utterly utterly drive them out.
And by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that received the promises offered up his only begotten son,
Tell him, O God God: Peace be unto thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And the men of Ephraim came and said unto him, Why didst thou not send for us, when thou goest to battle against Midian? And they answered him, and rebuked him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, O Lord, the God of Israel, give a sign, by which we may know, what the meaning is, that thou answerest not thy servant to day. If this iniquity be in me, or in my son Jonathan, give a proof; or if this iniquity be in thy people, let Jonathan and Saul be taken, and the people escaped.
As to the circumcision, I received it the eighth day of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, the Hebrew of the Hebrews, the Hebrew of the Hebrews:
And Michal took the image, and put it in the bed, and the hair of a goat's hair at its head, and she put raiment thereon.
Wherefore I was wroth with this generation, and said, They err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.
So therefore, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath driven out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and ye shall possess it?
He will keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall perish in the shadow of darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the sun ariseth, rising up early, and make a rush upon the city; and when he and his people come out against you, do to them whatsoever thou hast a occasion to do.
And they called the name of that place, and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the Philistines of the Philistines is: and when thou shalt come thither into the city, thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place, with the psaltery and the timbrel, and the pipe, and the harp before them; and they shall prophesy.
And David girded his sword upon his clothes, and he tried to move; for he had not tried it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these; for I have not proved them. And David took them off.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we beseech thee, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.
And she said unto her young men, Pass over before me: behold, I will come after you; and she did not tell the wife of Nabal.
So David smote the Philistines with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistine and killed him; and there was no sword in the hand of David.
Make mention of my joy, that ye be of the same mind, having the same love, being of one mind, being of one mind.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, thy fathers cried unto Jehovah, and sent Moses and Aaron, and brought out thy fathers out of Egypt, and dwelt them in this place.
And they said, We will willingly give. And they spread a garment, and cast in it every man the rings of his spoil.
And the tares shall reap their wheat harvest in the valley, and lift up their eyes, and behold the ark, and rejoice to see.
And the house was full of men and women; and all the men of the Philistines were there: and there were upon the roof three thousand men and women, who saw the time that did not have the king.
And they put away strange gods from among them, and served Jehovah: and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
Hear, O kings; give ear, O ye princes: I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And he came in to folds of the flock on the way, and there was a cave: and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men abode in the uttermost cave.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of city as the cattle, and all that was found; even all the cities that were found did they set on fire.
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me now pass through thy land. But the king of Edom hearkened not. And he sent unto the king of Moab; but he would not; and Israel abode in Kadesh.
So they set up for themselves the graven image which Micah had made, all the days that the house of God was in Shiloh.
that God might raise from among the dead, from whence he received him in a figure.
And the priest pleased the meal-offering, and took the ephod, and the images, and the molten image, and went along with the people.
and he said, This is the king's custom that reigneth over you: he shall take your sons, and appoint him among his chariots, and among his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath shut up thine enemy this day into thy hand: now I will run him through with my spear even to the earth once, and there shall be no need of a second time.
who, being in the form of God, did not consider robbery with God;
And the Spirit of Jehovah made him moved in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And it came to pass, that the Philistines arose, and went, and drew near to meet David. And David hasted, and ran to meet the Philistines.
And they passed over thence the hill-country of Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
And they both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews came forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
and they shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves, and thou shalt take them at their hand.
But Saul gave Michal his daughter, the wife of David, the son of Enos, the son of Hepher, who was the traitor.
And it shall be, when these signs come unto thee, do for thyself as thy hand findeth, for God with thee.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn off from the city; and they smote and slew of the people, as at other times, in the highways, which goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let us now pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken. And they also sent messengers to the king of Moab, but would not. So Israel abode in Kadesh.
Jehovah hath done unto thee, as he hath spoken by my hand: Jehovah hath torn the kingdom out of thy hand, and hath given it unto thy neighbor, unto David.
And Jonathan cried out after the lad, saying, haste, stay not. And Jonathan's servant gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, upon the holy places and upon Phinehas: in one day shall they both die.
And it came to pass, when Jacob and his sons came into Egypt, and smote the Egyptians, that your fathers came unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought them into this place; and he put them into this place.
And unto the messengers, he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
There remaineth therefore a sabbath rest for the people of God.
And the men of Israel saw that Abimelech died, and went every man unto his place.
who unto an example and shadow do the service of the heavenly things, as Moses had been warned, when it was ordained to put on the tabernacle; for behold he shall make all things according to the pattern which was shewed thee in the mount.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered together their armies to be prepared for war against Israel; and he said unto David, Know thou now certainly, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou, and thy men.
And Abimelech said, Where hast ye defied this day? And David said, Unto the south of Judah, and against the south side of Hamsher, and unto the south of the Kenite.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and made merry, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drank, and cursed Abimelech.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah hath left, to try Israel by them, even as many of Israel, as they knew not all the wars of Canaan;
Whithersoever they went forth, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had spoken, and as Jehovah sware unto them; and they were very sore.
For we have received our gospel unto us, even as they also: but the word of the report did not profit them, not being made with faith in them that heard.
and being found as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
And there fell of Benjamin, eighteen thousand men: all these men men of valor.
And he smote them with a great slaughter, from Aroer even unto Minnith, twenty cities, even unto Abel, the well of the children of Ammon. And the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And David took the Jezreelitess of Jezreel; and they were both of them his wives.
For the carcase of the beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, shall be burnt without the camp.
And Saul and the people spared his signs, and the sheep and the cattle, and the beasts of the second bearing, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not destroy them: but every thing that was sick and weak, that they destroyed utterly.
So having patience, he received the promise.
For I should live Christ, and to die gain;
Yet thou hast forsaken me, and serve strange gods; therefore will I deliver you no more.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant heareth.
For the land that hath drunk the rain that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth a crop profitable for them, for whose sakes it is tilled, shall receive blessing from God.
And when they had seen this, they cried out, saying, There was never such a thing done in Israel from the day that our fathers came up out of Egypt unto this day; give judgment, and make a decree in common what ought to be done.
And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went with the people.
And David said, What have I now done? is there not a cause?
And David said unto Ahijah, Thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Abimelech said unto David, Therefore I will make thee my council for ever.
And David rose early in the morning, and left the flock to the keeper, and lifted up, and went, as Jesse commanded him, and he came in to the way, and to the army that went out to the host; and they shouted for war.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return to Jehovah with all your heart, put away the strange gods, and the wicked man from among you, and apply your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine eyes, hast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
Therefore let us all, that ye may abound, be of this mind: and if ye know a certain mind, this also will God show thee:
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him: and he came to the place of the wagons, as the people that went out to the battle shouted for the battle.
For it was ready for him to whom are all things, and through whom are all things in bringing many children to be able to be perfect, the prince of their salvation through the sufferings.
And the woman bare a son, and bare him a son name; and he became a man, and the blessing of Jehovah was upon him.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore, get her for me as my wife.
And when David perceived that Saul was besieging him, he said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod here.
For every one that eateth of milk is ignorant of righteousness, because he is a child.
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rideth upon the ass; and five young women that went at her feet; and she went after the messengers of David, and was his wife.
And the children of the Gileadites took the places of the Jordan against Ephraim; and it came to pass, when any of the men of Ephraim fled, saying, Let me pass over. And the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou a burden? And if he said, No.
And in this again, If they shall enter into my rest.
And they came to their brethren at Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brethren asked them, What sayest ye?
For he waited for the foundation of the city, The foundations thereof, and the builder thereof, and the builder thereof is God.
And Gaiah the son of Obed cried, who is Abimelech, and what is Shechem, that we should serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbesheth, and he made mention his servant over the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? why then shall we serve him?
And thou shalt roll them as a garment, and they shall be changed; and thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
And through faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king: for he endureth as though he was of old.
But if ye do wickedly, ye shall perish, both ye and your king.
Finally, brethren, what things are true, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are beloved, whatsoever things is good; if there be any power, and any praise, think on these things.
Therefore they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards;
But when Christ hath come as a high priest of coming good things, through the greatest, and more perfect, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creature;
And David went on, and six hundred men that were with him, and they came unto the brook of Azaliah, and they that were left stood still.
Go and cry unto the gods that ye have chosen: let them deliver you in the time of your affliction.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Bring the ark of God: for the ark of God was upon that day with the children of Israel.
And Elthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied, and Samuel standing over them, the Spirit of God came upon Saul's messengers, and they prophesied also.
And Saul and his men sought him. And David heard of it, and went down into the rock in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard of this, and followed David into the wilderness of Maon.
And they were left for Israel, to know whether they would keep the commandments of Jehovah which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
Therefore on that day he called him to defeat Baal, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.
He raiseth up the poor from the dust; He lifteth up the needy out of the dunghill, To cause them to sit with nobles; He shall cause them to inherit the throne of glory; For Jehovah hath chosen the earth, and setteth upon them the world of the world.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee; but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented with him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away the necromancers, and the wizards, out of the land.
And Jonathan the son of Saul said unto his armorbearer, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison that is over there. But he told his father not.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; only thy glory shall not be in the way that thou goest: for the Lord shall sell unto the hand of a woman, that he may interpret it. And Deborah arose, and went with vermilion.
Is it this day that I began to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king charge anything to his servant, to all the house of my father; for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard these words, and his anger burned hot.
Therefore he ought to be made like his brethren in every way, that he might be a high priest full of mercy, and keeping faith in all things to do with God, making offerings for the sins of the people.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim, in Judah: therefore they called that place Baal-perazim to this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
Salute all thy princes, and all the saints: salute thee from Italy.
And he brought unto Eglon king of Moab; and it was very fat.
And the Philistines came near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And if the man said unto him, First let the fat be burned, take as much as thou wilt: then the servant would say, No, thou wilt give me now, or I will take it by force.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, and drove out the three sons of Anak there.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was girded with a coat of mail; and the coat of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
One day the trees went forth to make a king for themselves; and they said unto the olive tree, Be king over us.
and he shall set it into an ephod, and set it up in his city, in Ophrah; and all Israel shall play a harlot after it there; and it shall be to them for a snare, and to his house for a snare.
while God was testifying in that time by signs, and by wonders, and of wonders, and of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
And it came to pass, when they heard the dream and the interpretation which they took it, and worshipped; and he returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered the host of Midian into your hand.
But if I live in the flesh, this shall bring forth fruit from my work; yet I know not what I shall choose.
For if the blood of the bulls, and the goats, and the ashes of the heifer, let those that defile them, sanctify the cleansing of the flesh;
And it came to pass, when the lad had come into the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond you?
Make you full of every good work, and ready to do all his lusts, working in us whatsoever is acceptable in his sight through Jesus Christ; and the glory be given unto him for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines set themselves in array to meet Israel, and the battle was divided: and Israel was smitten before the Philistines: and they smote among the ranks in the field about four thousand men.
And the children of Benjamin did, as they had been commanded, and according to their number, they took off for themselves every man his wife of the dance: and they went into their possession, and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And he died, and was buried in Paran in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of Amalek.
And Saul said, There is no man put to death on this day: for Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, his brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah, in Shiloh, with an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed by Beth-Aven.
And Micaiah said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you: if ye shall surely tell me me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty, and thirty changes of garments:
And he made a ephod out of it, and put it in lamentation, his city; and all Israel played the harlot with it there; and it became a snare to them, and to his house.
And they said unto Samuel, Let not the Lord our God cry for us, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they said unto him, Say now Micaiah; and he said unto him, For he could not give him right. Then they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan: and there fell at that time of the children of Ephraim forty and two thousand.
Wherefore then ye stiffnecked your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had dealt wondrously among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
and to them that were in Sepharad, and to them that were in the cities of the hired elite, and to them that were in the country of the Kenites,
and they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the land until thy entering in Gaza: and they left no food in Israel, either sheep, or ox, or ass.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
And David gave his oath to Saul; and Saul returned to his house: but David and his men went up into their stead.
And it came to pass after Abimelech, that there arose a ruler in Israel, and Amraphel the son of Puah the uncle of Abimelech, the man of Issachar, who dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim,
Then Jehovah gave them judges, as they that were delivered out of the hand of them that hated them.
Neither neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that came into Dagon the house of Dagon, in the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou shalt take a wife of the Philistines, that are uncircumcised? And Achan the son said unto his father, Take this woman for me, for she hath pleased mine eyes.
And they with the household of Micah, and they knew the voice of the young man, the Levite, and turn aside thence, and say unto him, Who hath brought thee hither? and what is thou in this? and what is thou here?
And ye shall cry in that day because of your king whom ye have chosen; and Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And Micaiah said, Now know I now that Jehovah will do good unto me, seeing I have a Levite as my priest.
And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring them to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell of us, saying, David did this; and this is his way all the time that he dwelt in the land of the Philistines.
And ye have not remembered the word that saith unto you, My son, my son, despise not the Lord's vengeance, nor trust when ye are judged by you.
But the children of Israel returned, and put all the remnant of the city to the sword, both men and beasts; and all the cities thereof and the villages of Benjamin were consumed with the burning flame.
And Jonathan stripped the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
having confidence of this very thing, that he which hath begun in you is good shall perform until a day of Jesus Christ;
And the blessing of the women shall be: The wife of Eber the Kenite shall be: Blessed shall be blessed over women in the tent.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give me bread of bread unto the people that followed me; for they are weary, and I will follow as Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And they said, We will not kill thee; but we will deliver thee up bound. And they bound him with two rough cords, and brought him from the rock of the rock.
We may come near, then, in liberty, unto the throne of the grace, that we may receive kindness, and find grace, for much is able to help.
And these came into Micah's house, and took the graven image, the ephod, and the images, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What do ye?
But his wife said unto him, If the Lord would slay us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a oblation at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would according to this time have told us such things as these things.
This man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. The two sons of Bela, the priests and Phinehas, the priests, were there.
The Lord render unto every man his righteousness and his truth; for Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to day; but I would not stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
always in my supplication, making supplication for you with joy,
And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
Pardon, I pray thee, the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make a atonement for my lord; for my lord shall fight the battles of Jehovah, and no evil shall not be found in thee as long as thou livest.
If therefore we have a kingdom that shall never be moved, let us have grace, that we may give thanks unto God, as with fear and favour:
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, priest of the Most High, who met Abraham, returned from smiting the kings, and blessed him;
And Jehu arose, and followed his wife; and he came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake unto the woman? And he said, I am.
And it came to pass, after they had borne it, that the hand of the Lord was against the city with a great destruction: and he smote the men of the city, both small and great; and they had the mortar in their treasuries.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Behold, thou hast saved thee, and save Israel from Midian: have I not sent thee?
And after him was Shaphat the son of Achbor, who smote six hundred men of the Philistines with an ox to Israel, and he saved Israel.
And a evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing with his hand.
Having been so much better than the angels, as the name which his inheritance is more noble than theirs.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bottle, and followed Abimelech, and put to the hold, and burned the hold with fire upon them. And all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field, and they told Abimelech.
And an angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal to the place of weeping, and said, I have brought you out of Egypt, and have brought you into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I promised that I would not make void my covenant with you for ever:
who by faith smote kingdoms, and wrought righteousness, and received words, and stopped the mouth of lions,
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them; but the child drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a child.
And this shall be the sign unto you, which shall come upon the land, which shall come upon, even Phinehas, your sons, on the same day.
through which we shall be sanctified through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake.
How Jacob went into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And the sin of these youth was very great before Jehovah; for they gave no honor unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass on the next day, that the spirit of God came upon Saul with great power, and prophesied like a prophet among the men of his house, while David loved him, as he was day by day: and Saul had his spear in his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, bread of bread unto the people that follow me: for they are faint, and I will follow after Zebah and as Zalmunna kings of Midian.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made Eglon king of Moab strong against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanite alive in Iddo, and smote it; and he called the city the name of Hormah.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them down unto the nether parts of the land.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan; and Saul sware, saying, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
He keepeth the feet of his saints; But the wicked are made low in darkness; For by strength shall no man prevail.
Beware of the dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the truth.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Heli: The sons of Reuben and Phinehas died.
how shall we escape, if we have been long from so great salvation, which, having had the beginning in being spoken by the Lord, hath been confirmed unto us by those that have heard;
Now Saul dwelt at the outskirts of Gibeah under the bath that was in Migron, and the host that were with him were six hundred men.
And Abimelech pursued him, and fled before him; and he fell a great number by the sword all the way up to the city.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: therefore now send and fetch him unto me; for he shall surely die.
He is able to feel them that have no knowledge, and for them that err from the truth, because he himself is weak.
They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the places of bringing water, there shall they utter the righteous acts of Jehovah, even the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of Jehovah go down to the gates.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons' sons that went upon seventy asses; and he reigned eight years.
And he said unto them, Well, that he hath done for me, and hath hired me to be his priest.
For he shall testify, Thou shalt be a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in me?
And Jehovah had revealed unto Samuel a day before Saul, saying,
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his eyes.
And he brought him into his house, and gave his asses provender: and he washed their feet, and lodged them with a feast.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Hath Jehovah anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
And the thing displeased Samuel, that they should say, Give us a king, to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
but Christ as the Son in his own house: which house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and glory of hope unto the end.
For it is impossible to restore again unto repentance those once, and who have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit;
And Saul's brother's brother said unto him and his servant, Where hast thou been? And he said, He sought the asses: and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And the wife of Eber took a nail of silver, and took the hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and smote the nail into his temples, and it was spent into the ground: for he had fallen into a deep sleep, and was faint; and he died.
Now in Carchemish and Zalmunna were in Carchemish, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men of all the host of the east; there were a hundred and twenty thousand men that fell in battle.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah: for all shall know me, from the least even to the greatest.
And the thistle said unto the trees, If ye anoint me king over you, come, put confidence in my shadow; but if not, fire shall come out of the thistle, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and smote the Canaanites of Zerah; and they utterly destroyed it: therefore he called the name of the city Hormah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into Midian seven years.
And Saul arrayed David with his clothes, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a coat of mail.
And they buried in the land in the land of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the north of mount Gaash.
But he, because he endureth for ever, keepeth the priesthood.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me: behold, I will follow after you; but she told not her husband the Carmelite.
For it is known that our Lord cometh out of Judah: and Moses spake unto them from the tribe of Israel.
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, who is the king's son in the king's stead, and hath thy access unto thy secrets, and is honourable in thy house?
And they have taken that which the Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came against him, against a quiet people, and in peace, and smote them by the edge of the sword, and the city burned with fire.
And he said unto them also, When I shall return to be in peace, I will destroy this tower.
and call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint me whom I am his name.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went to meet the Philistines: therefore they called that place the Rock of Anak.
The only one will I not cut off from my altar: but to cause thine eyes to fail and to cause thy soul to mourn, all the members of thy house shall die as men.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, thou shalt surely die, thou and all thy father's house.
And David enquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, Arise, and go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
And he went from year to year, and passed about Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel all these places.
And Jehovah said unto them, With them, I will save thee three hundred who drink with their tongue, and I will deliver thee, and I will smite the Midianites; and let the remnant of the people go away, every man to his place.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, and Israel was great distress.
But Sihon spared not Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchijah, the sons of Saul.
For he that worketh in you, both to will and to work for his goodness, is God.
And when they saw him, they brought with him thirty companions.
And Jehovah cast unto him, and all his chariots, and all his chariots, and of the sword, before the sword's sword; and, behold, he lighted from his chariot, and fled on foot.
And the men of Israel came together from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and followed Midian.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they did not escape, when they refuse him that bare on the earth, how much more shall we not escape that turn away from him that warn heaven,
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the Philistines' garrison is; and it shall come to pass, when thou comest there into the city, that thou shalt meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp, and a timbrel, and a pipe, and a harp before them; and they shall be prophesying.
And it came to pass, when Saul turned back from after the Philistines, that they told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
For he found a trespass, and saith unto them, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will accomplish with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah a new covenant.
And now he hath obtained a more excellent service; how much also of a good covenant is he mediator, which is more esteemed with good things.
And Saul hastened, and fell, the fulness of his stature, to the earth, and feared greatly because of the words of Samuel; and there was no power in him; for he had not eaten bread all the day, and all the night.
And when David arose, he went out from the cave, and called after Saul, saying, My lord, O king! And Saul looked behind him. And David bowed down his face toward the earth, and worshipped him.
And David perceived that Saul was moved evil against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod here.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
And Judah took Gaza with its border, and Ashkelon with its border, and Ekron with the border thereof.
And it came to pass, when the day came that Elkanah, that Elkanah, he gave to Jahaz his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
And when he had cast it, he thought to overthrow David to the wall: and David went out of his presence twice.
And Jehovah called yet again, and Samuel. And Samuel arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here I am; for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called, my son; lie down again.
It was therefore necessary that the likeness of the heavens should be made clean with these, but the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
And Samuel took a stone, and put it up between Mizpah, and Jeshanah, and called it aloud, and said, Up unto now Jehovah our help.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou forsaken me? And Saul answered and said, I am in great safety; for the Philistines have fought against me, and the Philistines have forsaken me, and I will not answer me by the prophets, nor by the dream: therefore I have sent thee to tell me what I should do.
And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as is Aaron.
( for the law made nothing perfect); but on the other hand there is a earnest hope by which we draw nigh unto God.
Nevertheless the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
For we have been partakers of Christ, if the beginning of the confidence should we hold unto the end.
Thy servant is strong and bare; and the captivity of this of the Philistines, which is uncircumcised, shall be like unto them, seeing that he hath despised the hosts of the living God.
which is a gift of the present age, where gifts and sacrifices are offered, that are not at the gate, concerning the conscience, of making the prize perfect;
But the vine said unto them, Shall I stop my wine, that maketh the gods and men rejoice, to go over the trees?
that all ye have conspired against me, and there is no man to declare me: yea, when my son hath entered into the land of Jesse? there is none of you that pity my cause, nor give me any thing: for my son hath stirred up my servant against me, laying wait against me unto this day.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan, and smote Judah and Benjamin and Ephraim: and Israel was very sore.
Honor the feast in all, and the bed is perfect; And the poor man and the adulterers God shall judge.
And Saul was all the people to go down to the battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay siege unto David and to his men.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into Midian seven years.
Yea, I beseech you, true partner, help these women: for they laboured with me in the gospel, with the jointer also, and the rest of my fellow workmen, whose names are in the book of life.
And a woman cast the upper stone of a garment upon Abimelech's head, and crushed his skull.
And it came to pass one day, when he lay in his place, and his eyes were dim, that he could not see;
And he said unto all Israel, Be thou on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do that which is good in thy sight.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he said, Behold, I am, my lord.
And they set their host in array against Israel. And when they had joined war, Israel turned their backs to the Philistines, and there was slain in that fight, and there were four thousand men.
And they shall not teach every one his fellow, and every one his brother, saying, Know the Lord; for all shall know me in themselves, from little one among them to great among them.
Therefore God magnified him up, and gave him a name that is above every name.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every one did that which was right in his eyes.
And Jehovah called again the third time, even Samuel. And he arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And Elisabeth perceived that Jehovah was calling the child.
And the prince of Jehovah was chief according to the order of Melchizedek.
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will despair of me, to seek me any more in all the borders of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
And Gaiah the son of Birzaith said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? and Shebna his chamberlain? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: why should we serve him?
And David sware unto Saul: and Saul went home; but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; He maketh low and exalteth.
For the beasts whose blood is brought for sin into the holy place through the high priest, of these flesh shall be burnt without the camp.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
and ye have gone against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, even seventy men upon one stone, and made Abimelech, the son of his handmaid, king over the city of Shechem, because he is thy brother;
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father straitly straitly charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread this day; and the people are faint.
And the Kenite fled from the face of his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Caleb: and the men gathered themselves together unto Libnah, and they went out with him.
And it came to pass by faith, that Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
for our fathers received favor by God.
And Jehovah said unto him, Because I am with thee, thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And David sent spies, and he learned that Saul had come.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as a delight in heave-offerings and burnt-offerings as in his commandments? Behold, to do his pleasure better than to offer, and to give ear unto him than the fat of sheep.
But his wife took one of his friends and companions for her husband.
And Samuel slept until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to tell the vision to come.
ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall cast down their altars; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice: wherefore have ye done this?
Then said the trees to the vine, Come, thou, reign over us.
And said unto him, Where is thy mouth, in that thou sayest, Who Abimelech, that we serve him? is not this the people against whom thou hast rejected? go out now, I pray thee, and fight against it.
And the first slaughter which Jonathan and his armorbearer was of twenty men, in the half of the field of Mamre, which was a yoke of oxen in a day.
( therefore the priests of Dagon and all that come into the house of Dagon tread not on the threshold of Dagon at Ashdod unto this day.)
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that they offer themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
For for the work of Christ he came unto the point of death; he delivered his life, that he might fulfil that which upon thy part was lacking unto my service.
And David was greatly troubled; for the people began to stone him, because their heart was bitter, every man mourned for his sons and his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And Shelomith, and said, Wilt thou arise, and run upon us; for the strength of a man is for a man for his age: the strength of a man is in his head, and he smote him; and he took the shields, and bucklers, with which the camels of kings were fastened.
And the weight of the rings of gold, which he asked, was a thousand and seven hundred of gold, apart from the ornaments of spices, and the skirts, and the purple garments, which were upon the kings of Midian, and by the chains of their camels,
And the king said unto Araunah, Turn thee, and fight against the priests. And Amon turned and smote the priests, and slew the priests, and he slew the linen of the ephod.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But if it bring forth thorns and thistles, it is vanity, and near to a curse; whose end is for burning.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
And David took an oath again, and said, Thy father knoweth very well, that I have found favour in thine eyes; and he said, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be afraid: but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, surely there is a breach between me and death.
So they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: and David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain at the right hand of purity.
And Hamor the son of Jarah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem: and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
And the young Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before Jehovah: in those days Jehovah hid his word from men, and there was no vision.
For every house is builded by some one; but he that hath built all things God.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell also upon his sword, and died with him.
I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And Hamor's son went out, and stood at the door of the city gate; and Abimelech and the host that was with him arose from the ambush.
So four thousand men of Benjamin died that day, all mighty men of war.
The wise men have ceased in Israel; they ceased, Until that I arose, even at Crete, that I arose, even a mother in Israel.
And when he saw the traveller in the street of the city, the old man said, Where goest thou? and whence comest thou?
The price was one to make the waste to make the waste, And the Pleiades, and the snuffers, and the tongs, and the pipe.
For verily, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath withheld me from the house of thee, except thou hadst hasted, and come to meet me, surely there would not be left the Carmelite by the morning, so much as one that lateth upon a wall.
So Saul removed him from his presence, and made him his captain over a thousand: and he went out, and came in before the people.
And Jonathan went up, and girded with his hand and his feet, and his servant went up after him: and the Philistines passed before Jonathan, when he smote them, and slew his servant after him.
and set it before Saul, and before his servants. And when they had eaten they rose up, they walked all that night.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until the even, and asked Jehovah, saying, Shall I go to war with the sons of Benjamin, my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
The lords of Gibeah rose up against me, and compassed the house at night; and they thought to slay me; and they ravished my concubine, and she died.
And Jesse brought his seven sons before Samuel: and Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen any one of these.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp: and all the host ran, and cried out, and fled.
Saul was a son of one year when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and lay down unto him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests' charge, that I may eat a piece of bread.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal Tamar: and the ambush of Israel brake out of their stead, even out of Geba.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and oblation thou wouldest not wish; but thou hast made a body prepared me.
Rejoice in the Lord always: And again I say, Rejoice.
Therefore give me thy oath by Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, neither shall my name be cut off from my father's house.
And when he was come home, he took a sword, and divided the dead body of his wife with her bones into twelve parts, and sent the pieces into all the borders of Israel.
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And they shall ask thy welfare, and give thee two loaves, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, Let us now beseech thee, and prepare thee a kid of the goats before thee.
And all Israel knew from Dan even to Beer-sheba, that Samuel was established for a prophet unto Jehovah.
Behold, here is my virgin daughter and his concubine: I will bring them out now. Humble them, and do with them what seemeth good unto thee: but unto this man do not any such folly.
And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal all these words in the name of David, and waited.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Rithmah to Ashdod.
and he vowed a vow, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt surely look upon the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and forget not thy handmaid, and give unto thy handmaid seed of men, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, neither shall any razor go up upon his head.
And he said unto her, Arise, and we go. And there was no one answered. And he took her upon the ass, and the man arose, and went to his place.
Why hardened ye your heart like the heart of Pharaoh and the Egyptians? When he had mocked them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
and in nothing did fear of your adversaries, which is to them a manifest token of destruction, but unto you of salvation, and of God.
And the Philistines said, I denounce the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, were in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Ezion-geber.
And if the number of the priests' and the Levites were fulfilled, ( for under it the people received the law), and there was no need of the priest that another priest should rise after him, and not be called after the commandment of Aaron?
not like the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day that I took hold of them by my hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not continue in my covenant, and I have escaped them, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass, after that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
But now thy kingdom abideth not: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath commanded him to be captain over his people; because thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be given unto the man that shall kill this of the Philistines, and shall take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised master, that he should defy the host of the living God?
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities of Gibeah, to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and took their possessions from the tents.
that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be pure and unspotted until the day of Christ.
And over it the likeness of the glory of the glory of the perfumer, whereof we can not now speak one of them.
So all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, joined together as one man.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And they said, Nay; we will take thee, and deliver thee into their hands, but we will not kill thee. And they took him two little cords round about, and carried him up from the rock.
And we are not of them that drew back to destruction, but of them that believe to keep their soul.
And no man receiveth himself, but he that is called by God, as also Aaron.
according to all the works which they have done from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they do unto you.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons, who rode upon threescore and ten ass, and he reigned for Israel eight years.
Having therefore, brethren, a confidence in the entrance into the holy of the blood of Christ;
And the Philistines said, I have defied the host of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
By faith Abraham, when he was tried, he offered up Isaac: and he that received the promises, offered up his only begotten son:
And ye shall make images of your plowshares, and the images of your visitation that destroy the land, and give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he shall make clear his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
And Saul said, They have brought them out of Amalek, because the people had compassion on the best of the flock, and of the herd, that they might sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God, and the remnant we have destroyed.
Thou hast declared this day how thou hast dealt well with me; for when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who appointed Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
But his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a wife among the daughters of thy kindred, or among all our people, that thou shalt take a wife from the uncircumcised Philistines? And Achan said to his father, Take her for me, for she will please me.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and drove out the inhabitants of the hill-country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
And Esarhaddon the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers came up with him; and he was much afraid of the archers.
and let them that all their lives were in fetters, because of their fear of death.
By faith Noah, being warned of the things that God did not see, being moved with fear, prepared the ark into the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and was heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And he brake down the tower of Peniel, and slew the men of the city.
Who leap on white asses, They that are greedy of long colors, And walketh by the way, meditate.
And they journeyed there with the ambush of the night in Gibeah: and he went in, and sat in the street of the city; for no man carried them into his house for the night.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of Shechem's tower were gathered together.
Then said I, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish that which is pursuing.
And he said unto them, What then have I been compared with you? are not the gleaning gleanings of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
And it came to pass, when Jehovah raised up princes for them, that Jehovah was with the prince, and he delivered them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the prince; for Jehovah had been moved by their groaning, because of their persecutors, and of oppressors.
When they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them to harm them, as Jehovah commanded, and as Jehovah sware unto them; and they were very sore.
And Saul and the children of Israel gathered themselves together unto the valley of Eshcol, and set the host in array against the Philistines.
So David took the spear and the pitcher of water from off the head of Saul, and they went away; and no man saw, and no man knew, nor awaked; for they were all sleeping, because a deep sleep fell upon them.
but to abide in the flesh is needful for you.
But it came to pass after Israel, that he became strong, and made them to taskwork, and would not destroy them.
And the man went out of the city from Kadesh-barnea to sojourn, where he could find a place. And he came to mount Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And Abigail went again to Nabal; and he was eating in his house like a king; and the heart of the spirit of the spirit of Nabal, because he had taken much wine; therefore she did not speak unto him till the morning came.
Take me, brethren, according to your example, and attend to them that walk after the example we have given.
And Abimelech pursued him, and fled before him; and there fell many slain, even as far as the door of the gate.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five goodly stones out of the brook, and put them in the sack's sack that he had, into the bosom; and his horses was in his hand. And he drew near unto the Philistines.
And the priest said, The sword of the Philistines whom thou hast slain in the valley of Elah is here, and wrapped in a napkin behind the ephod: if thou wilt take it for thyself, then take it; for there is no other except it here. And David said, There is none like it; give it unto me.
Wherefore three thousand men of Judah went down to the cave of the rock, and said to Micaiah, Knowest thou not that the Philistines have dominion over us? why dost thou do thus? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And when they that dwelt in the tower of Shechem, when Shechem had heard this, they went into the house of their god, that they had made a covenant with him, and from thence the place had taken its name, and it was exceeding strong.
I know how to be base, and I know how to abound: every where and in all things I am taught both to be full, and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
And with faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things that were going to pass.
who, being in the form of God, understood not, being equal with God,
And ye have forgotten the exhortation which ye have, as with children, my son, take not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou rebuke him:
And it came to pass, when he turned his back to go from Samuel, that God gave him another heart; and all that signs came to pass that day.
And God rendered all the evil of the men of Shechem upon their heads: and upon them was the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
And as for them that at one time saw the light, and ate the good things from heaven, and having their part in the Holy Spirit,
For they, and all their flocks, came with their tents, and like locusts filled all the places, a very great multitude of men, and of camels, destroying all that they touched.
Therefore they inquired of Jehovah further, Shall the man yet come hither? And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the vessels.
And Abimelech was told that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
What is the end? only, that in every way or in falsehood or in truth, Christ is preached, and in this I rejoice; but I will rejoice.
And Ezekiel said unto the elders of Gilead, Have ye not hated me? and ye cast me out of my father's house, and why came ye unto me now when ye are in trouble?
And he built there an altar to Jehovah, and called Jehovah's peace unto this day, until this day. And when he was still in Ramoth-gilead, he was of the family of the guard;
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah; and on that day they destroyed twenty and two thousand men of Israel to the ground.
And Shema the son went to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was greatly troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy maid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I put my soul in my hand, and I will obey thy words which thou hast spoken unto me.
And when the children of Israel died, the children of Israel went again after the gods of Canaan, and they rebelled against Jehovah, and smote Baal their god.
And it came to pass, when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead had heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother: As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst kept them alive, I would not kill thee.
So God also do more than the enemies of David, if I leave of all that appertain to him by the morning light any that creepeth against the wall.
And God did so that night; for it was dry upon the fleece of the fleece, and there was dew upon all the earth.
God bearing, besides, witness with signs, and wonders, and works of power, and the Spirit of the Holy Spirit, according to his will?
And when he had long patience, he received the promise.
Suffer therefore, I pray thee, with the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house; for the war of Jehovah hath my lord fought, and wickedness is not found in thee thy days.
And Sheva the son took hold of the midst of the pillars upon which the house stood, and upon which it was borne, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
But he that sat not down from them gathered the tithes from Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Beth-lehem, and was there four months.
And he sprinkled the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the ministry in the same way with the blood.
The stars from heaven were warring; From their paths they strove against talking.
And her adversary provoked her much, to make her fret; for Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And when David heard that the Baptist was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath taken up my cause against the edge of the evil which he put upon me, and hath withdrawn his servant from evil, and hath sent the head of the wicked of Nabal. And David sent word to Abigail, desiring to take her as his wife.
For unto us it was told in like manner as unto them: but the word of hearing did not profit them, not being made with the faith of those things which they heard.
for then he would have suffered a number of death from the time of the world: but now he hath come unto us at the end of the old, to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
But when the judge was dead, they turned back, and dealt more corruptly than their fathers in following other gods, to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they did not cease what they did, or that they should bear their rough ways.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and he fought all round against his enemies, against Moab, against the children of Ammon, against Edom, against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he smote all that rebelled.
And it came to pass by faith Jacob blessed every one of Joseph's sons, and worshipped on the top of his staff.
And Shammua the son of Hauran came after him, and slew six hundred Philistines with the departure of an ox, and he delivered Israel.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus for me, by my coming unto you.
And he brake the tower of Peniel, and the men of the city slew.
Ye are not yet rebellious unto blood, fighting against sin.
The Lord forbid that I should stretch out mine hand against Jehovah's anointed: but, I pray thee, take thee now the spear that is at his stead, and let us go.
Know that our brother Timothy is loosed, with whom, if he come soon, I will see you.
Speak ye therefore in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem, saying, Is it possible for you to be ruled with all the seventy sons of Baal? and remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the priest answered and said, I have no common bread here, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And God hearkened unto the voice of man: and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but she herself was not with her husband.
Then the children of Judah smote Jerusalem, and took it, and devoured the city after they had slain the people with the sword.
But a certain woman cast a upper millstone upon Abimelech's head, and rent his skull.
Wherefore consider, and think what thou hast to do: for evil is determined against thy husband, and against thy house, and he is a son of Belial, that no man can speak unto him.
At that time they put about ten thousand men of Moab to the sword, every mighty man, and every man of war; not a man departed.
And David said unto Jehoshaphat, Hast thou no sword or spear with thee? for I have found my sword and her arms, because the king's business was to be done quickly.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent: and if any man cometh, and asketh thee, and saith, Is there any here here? answer, nay.
And Jehovah came and stood; and he called, as he called the second times, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, Lord; for thy servant shall hear.
And David also took the Jezreelitess from Jezreel; and both of them became his wives.
And David's men said unto him, Now is the time when Jehovah saith unto thee, I will raise up thine enemy into thy hand to do with him whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then David arose, and took the skirt of Saul's coat in his hand, and cut off the end of it without his knowledge.
There went out of the families of Dan, from Seraiah, and of Eber, six hundred men, armed for war.
And the children of Ephraim took the side of the Jordan before Ephraim: and it was so, that when the children of Ephraim that were escaped said, Let me pass over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou a sting? If he said, No.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If thou hast not plowed with my heifer, ye would not have found out my riddle.
through which we shall be sanctified through the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And when Israel dwelt in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer, and in the villages thereof, and in all the cities that were by the Arnon, three hundred years, why did ye not recovered them at that time?
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is your way upon which ye go.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for his inheritance; but he could not make the people of the valley go out, for they had chariots of iron.
And Ephraim drove not out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
And there were among the people of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgins that had not known with a man; and they dwelt in Shiloh in Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And I have not sinned against thee; but thou wilt do with me evil, to fight against me. Jehovah, judge judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when the lad came to the place where the plague was, Jonathan called after the lad, and said, Hath it not passed over thee?
And Jehovah himself hath done that which I said: Jehovah hath taken the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it unto thy neighbor David;
And when they came to Gibeah, there met him a band of prophets; and the Spirit of God met him, and he sat among them as a prophet.
And why hast thou not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and fly to the spoil, and do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And ye have not this day rejected your God, who hath delivered your salvation out of all your evils and your troubles; and ye say, Nay: but thou shalt set a king over us: and now shall stand here before Jehovah, by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Suffer us seven days, and let us send messengers into all the borders of Israel; and if there be no man to deliver us, we will come out unto thee.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishi, and Malchijah, and the names of his two daughters, the name of the first-born was the name of Job, and the name of the younger Michal.
As he remembered the ark of God, he fell down from his seat backward against the gate, and brake his neck, and died, because the man was old and heavy; he had judged Israel forty years.
And when he had taken him down, they saw all, sitting about on all sides, eating and drinking among all the spoil which they had brought out of the land of the Philistines, and the land of Judah.
And she wept before him seven days, while they were their feast: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
For by one oblation he hath made perfect in perpetuity.
And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. Then said Saul, God hath cast him off into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
The vengeance of Jehovah shall be upon Jonathan, if it please my father to do thee evil, and I will not command thee, and send thee away, that ye may go in peace; and Jehovah will be with you, as he hath been with my father.
but verily I count all things to be hurt of the knowledge of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom I suffer the loss of all, and count them to be beaten, that I may gain Christ:
And the kine took the straight way by the way to Beth-shemesh; and they went along the way, as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And his father and his mother knew that it was of Jehovah, that he sought a occasion against the Philistines: and the Philistines reigned over Israel.
So he changed his way before them, and feigned them to be mad in their presence: he made them the door of the gate, and let his bed run down into his beard.
and Shebna, and those that were in the cities of Jerahmeel, and that were in the cities of Chinnereth,
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And Jonathan said, Now will we go over unto these men, and let them see us.
Kings came, they fight; Then fight the kings of Canaan, in Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo; they took not of money.
Why sittest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the calling of the herds? For the families of Reuben, there were great shepherds.
Neither that he should offer himself many times, as the high priest cometh into the holy place every year with blood of others;
And Saul said, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee evil, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done foolishly, and have erred exceedingly.
And when the men of Israel that were on this side of the valley, and that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And it came to pass at that time, when he lay in his place ( and now his eyes began to grow dim, he could not see),
And Saul said unto Samuel, My sin is great: for I have gone against the commandment of Jehovah, and against your words: for fear the people, I did that which they had spoken.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou my name? it is too wonderful.
For both he that sanctifieth and the saints are all from one; for he is not ashamed to call them brethren.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah, and he began to build an altar unto Jehovah.
But Hanun went not up; for she said unto her husband, Until the child be weaned, I will bring him in, and he shall appear before Jehovah, and dwell there for ever.
Yea, we have had fathers of our flesh that hath taught us, and we gave them thanks: shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of spirits, and live?
And the armorbearer of his armor said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn thee: behold, I am with thee as thine own heart.
But David loved all Israel and Judah: for he went out, and came before them.
Be careful for nothing; but in everything of prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known unto God.
And I will make myself a faithful priest, who shall do that which is in my heart and in my heart; and I will make for him a family that shall not perish; and his place shall be before my holy one for ever.
And I beseech you, brethren, that ye suffer this word of comfort: for I wrote unto you in a few words.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his face was as the face of the angel of God, exceeding terrible; and I asked him not where he was from, neither did he tell me his name.
Love therefore with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; but if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
All the saints salute you, especially those that are of Caesar's household.
They passed by faith, they passed through the Red Sea as by a dry land, which the Egyptians spake to do them.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord.
And Jair died, and was buried in the ground.
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
And God subdued that day to Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And the two wives of David were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, the son of Chislon,
and he shall cast it into the pan, or into the pot, or into the pot, or into the pot: and all that the meal-offering brought up the priest shall take for himself. Thus did they do to all the children of Israel that came there at Shiloh.
And they put his armor in the temple of Chinneroth, and hanged on the wall of Beth n.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added to all our sins to ask us a king.
And David went to Mizpah in the land of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and thy mother come, and dwell with thee, until I know what God will do unto me.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard that the Philistines had done unto Saul,
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Thou shalt not dwell in a castle, go, and go into thee the land of Judah. And David went, and entered into the forest of Laish.
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in thee, that which is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the destroyer.
And David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken; and David also delivered his two wives.
And there was at that time an prophetess, a prophetess, the wife of Eliashib, who judged the people,
And out of the cities, the children of Benjamin, were reckoned by that day, six and twenty thousand, fifty men, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, that were numbered seven hundred men.
And thou, O Lord, hast found the earth, and the heavens are the work of thy hands.
And Samuel died; and all Israel gathered together, and lamented him; and they buried him in his house at Ramah. So David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
But ye, remember the former days, in which, when ye were enlightened, ye bare a great company with sorrows;
And there went thah with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them. And there spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
Neither is there any creature which is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him whom we have to do.
Now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; thy shepherds have now been with us, and we did not hurt them; neither was there any miss of them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And it came to pass, when he was finished to bring near the present, that he sent away the people carrying the present.
And the hand of Midian was strong against Israel, from the presence of Midian the children of Israel made for themselves the rivers that were in the mountains, and the holes, and the strongholds.
And he said unto God, Let not thine anger burn against me; let me speak once more; I beseech thee, I pray thee, once with the fleece; let the fleece be dry, and let there be dew upon the ground.
So they set up for themselves Micah's graven image which he made, and it remained all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
In many parts, and many ways, the God of the old spake unto the fathers in the prophets,
And the people were numbered, and there was none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, We have turned again unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight with the children of Ammon; and thou shalt be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
If then there be any comfort in Christ, if any man be in love of love, if any one be of the spirit, if any man have compassion;
And he said, Go therefore. And he sent her away for two months; and she went with her friends to the mountains, and wept for her mourning.
Let us therefore draw near with boldness unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace in time of need.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, to profane his plowshares, and his sores, and his axe, and his kneading-troughs.
But others were tried by mocking and beat; yea, also by bands and bands.
And the men of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I taste a little honey with the end of the rod which was in my hand; and, behold, I must die.
but the strong food is given to them that are of full age; even they that by reason of use are to know both good and evil.
And it came to pass, when the people returned unto their camp, that the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah let the Philistines smite us this day? let us bring the ark of Jehovah's covenant here from Shiloh, that it may be with us, and deliver us from the hand of our enemies.
And it came to pass, that, when the children of Israel had turned away, that the children of Israel returned, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and set away Baal to be a god.
And there was a high priest, a high priest, after the order of Melchizedek.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah magnified Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they did evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And he stripped his clothes also, and he prophesied also before Samuel, and fell down naked all that day and all night. Then said they, Is Saul also among the prophets?
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded unto you.
And the meal-offering took up the shoulder, and what was on it, and set before Saul. And he said, Behold, I pray thee, set it before thee, eat; for against the set time hath it been kept for thee, seeing I shall call the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
And now, according to all the desire of thy soul, O king, to come down, come down, and let us shut him up into the hand of the king.
And he said unto them, What have I now compared unto you? are not the gleanings of Ephraim better than the vintage of the hinds?
Saul reigned one year; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give meat to boil for the priest; for he shall not eat bread from thee, but herb.
And the servants of Ahijah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing to one another about him in dancing, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, David his ten thousands?
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else except the sword of Haman the son of Joash, the man of Israel: God hath given into his hand Midian and all the host.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To morrow, by that time the sun be hot, ye shall have help. And the messengers came and told it unto the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
And the Avvites dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not dispossess them.
Now consider how great this was, to whom Abraham gave a tenth out of the spoil.
And it came to pass, that for the third time, that the Lord spake the name of Samuel. And he arose and said, Behold, I am; for thou shalt certainly say my name. Then it was known, that the voice which had spoken of the child was the Lord's name.
By faith Abraham, being called, being obedient to go forth into the place that he was about to receive for an inheritance: and he went forth, not knowing whither he goeth.
And the men of the forces answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will shew you something. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And the children of Israel turned away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah alone.
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And it arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that told the woman? And he said, I am.
And the king sat on his throne, as at other times, on the seat of the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
And when he arose, he took up a sharp thick cords, and made him bound together, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son; and they waited in the chamber; and the cords were rent, and his shields were broken.
And out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the scribe.
and these ten traded unto the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge.
And Esarhaddon the son of Joash returned to his house, and dwelt there.
but when they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And no creature is hid in him: but all things are naked, and laid bare to the eyes of him, to whom we must give our account.
For forty years I was angry with this generation, and I said, They have gone astray in their heart; and they know not my ways.
And Jehovah said to the banquet of it, I will save thee with the three hundred men, and I will give Midian into thy hand: and all the people shall go every man unto his place.
And he said unto her, What form is he? And she said, A old man cometh up, and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed himself with his face to the ground, and worshipped.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Seest ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen? for there is none like him among all the people. And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king.
And the five lords of the Philistines saw it, and returned to Ekron the same day.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: and he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go forth as at other times, and shake me free. But he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
then thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal: behold, I am coming down unto thee to offer burnt-offerings, and to make peace offerings: seven days shalt thou wait until I come unto thee: then will I know what thou shalt do.
And he turned from him to another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.
For we are the circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus, and trust not in the flesh:
Thus doth Jehovah do unto Jonathan, and so he shall add again; when the evil of thee is good to my father, then I have uncovered thine ear, and sent thee away, and thou shalt go in peace, and Jehovah will be with thee, as he was with my father.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God commanded you.
And the Levite said he would dwell with the man; and he became him as one of his sons.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the morrow; and there was none left of them a man, but four hundred young men that fell upon the camels, and were fled.
But the men would not hearken unto him: and the man took his concubine, and brought her out unto them; and they had with her counsel with her, and they spread her all night until the morning; they let her go at the morning.
And as he spake with them, that Tartan, whose name was Goliath, the Philistines, of Gath, bare himself to come up out of the camp of the Philistines: and he spake according to the same words, and David heard them.
And another company turned the way to Bethhoron; and another company turned the way of the border that looketh down on the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And when their fathers and their brethren shall come, and begin to complain against you, and to strive, we will say unto them, Have mercy on them, and have not taken them away as by the right of war or in the course: but when they asked to have them, ye gave them not, and the fault was committed in your part.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be refreshed, knowing how ye are ready.
And the men of Shechem set a ambush for him upon the tops of the mountains, and they robbed all that came by them; and Abimelech was told it.
But the Spirit of the Spirit answered David, and said, Who is David? and what is the son of Jesse? servants are now many days that flee from their masters.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field, and she alighted from her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And he taketh no honour for himself; but is called by God, even as Aaron also was.
For God worketh unto Abraham, because he had none greater by whom he might swear,
And Hanun spake in her heart; only her lips moved; but her voice was not heard: therefore she thought she was drunken.
And the strength of Israel shall not lie, nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And it came to pass, when the Pathrusim arose early on the morrow, that, behold, there were Dagon in the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and they took Dagon, and set him again in his stead.
So they went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and through the land of Atad, but they found no sign of them: then they went through the land of the sea, but they were not there: and they went through the land of the Gileadites, but they found not.
and did eat the good word of God, and the powers of the world;
And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab, eighteen years.
And the king said to the guard that stood about him, Return, and put the priests of Jehovah to death; for their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and told me not. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray you, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I have tasted a little of this honey.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto her, and said, Thou art barren and without children; but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not; for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
having confidence of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you shall perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ:
And Jehovah visited Hanun, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child of Samuel grew forth before Jehovah.
And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she loved the son well.
In which Jesus went into the way of Melchizedek,
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
But what things were needful to me, these I have been accounted, because of Christ.
And Michal took a image, and laid it on the bed, and put a he-goat's skin with its head, and covered it with garments.
To morrow about this time will I send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him prince over my people Israel; and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And Jehovah raised up judges, to deliver them from the hand of the oppressed; but they would not hearken unto them.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me now pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken. And they also sent to the king of Moab; but Israel abode in Kadesh.
So David rose up, and passed over, and the six hundred men that were with him, to Ittai the son of Hammedatha the king of Gath.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets; and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host; and the host fled to Beth-shemesh, and to the border of Abel, and to the border of Abel.
And he took the two middle of the pillars upon which the house rested, and leaned upon them one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, Behold, we pray thee, that a spirit of wrath God is terrible thee.
And Saul answered and said, He told us that the asses were returned. But he spake nothing unto him of Samuel about the kingdom.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel set up themselves against them to battle at Gibeah.
And as for me, far be it from me, that I should sin against Jehovah in prayer to pray for thee: I will instruct thee in the good and righteous way.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
And the wife of Gilead bare unto him children; and the sons of the wife grew up, and cast out Baal, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in the house of our father; for thou art the son of another woman.
And David received at her hand all that she had brought him, and said unto her, Go in peace into thy house; behold, I have heard thy voice, and have glorified thy face.
And David enquired of Jehovah again. And he answered and said unto him, Arise, and go to the Reubenites; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
And the angel said unto him, If thou wilt press me, I will not eat of thy bread; but if thou offer a burnt-offering, offer it unto Jehovah. And he knew not the angel of Jehovah.
And David came to Nob, to Abimelech the priest; and Ahimelech trembled at David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And Israel trusted in their strength, and their number, and set their host in array in the same place, where they had fought before.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my wine, which doth commit God and man, and go to be exalted over the trees?
For who, when they heard it, were disobedient? Surely it was not all that went out of Egypt through Moses?
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand; and they slew of them ten thousand men.
And Jonathan said, My father hath afflicted the land: see now that mine eyes have fainted, because I have tasted the little of this honey.
And Jehovah visited a prophetess, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child of Samuel was magnified before Jehovah.
For I know that this shall turn forth to my salvation, through your supplication and the helmet of Jesus Christ:
that we may say, Jehovah is my helper; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?
For as long as the son of Jesse is alive on the earth, thou, and thy kingdom shall not be established: therefore therefore send, and bring him unto me; for he shall surely die.
And they took up the ghost, and pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
And the men of Israel returned unto the children of Benjamin, and put them into the edge of the sword, both the inhabitants of city and the beasts that were found; and they set upon fire all the cities that they found.
Moses by faith was born, and was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child comely, and were not afraid of the king's commandment.
and said, I will bring you up out of Egypt, and bring you into the land which I sware unto your fathers, and say, I will not break my covenant with you for ever; and make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall break down their altars; but ye have not obeyed my voice, what ye have done?
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, as thou comest to Shur, which is over to Egypt.
And it came to pass, when the dead was dead, that the children of Israel returned, and went the harlot after the Baalim, and set up Baal as their god.
So he brought down the people unto the water; and Jehovah said to the plague, Every one that smiteth the water with his tongue, as a dog, he shall thou set by himself; likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.
And Baal the son of Joash dwelt in his own house.
Wherefore my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling.
And when the Ammonite answered them, I will make a covenant with you, that I may pluck out all your right eyes, and make you a reproach in all Israel.
Now I beseech you, brethren, bear with my word of exhortation; for I have written unto you briefly.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned, do thou unto us according to all that is good in thine eyes: only deliver us now this day.
where Jesus went astray unto us, and is made a high priest according to the order of Melchizedek.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines are fighting in Keilah, and they are in the threshing-floor.
Forty thousand men of Benjamin died, all mighty men of valor.
And after him repaired the spirit of Beth-lehem, the judge of Israel.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the multitude of angels;
And Saul enquired of Jehovah; but Jehovah answered him not, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.
And his lord said unto him, Let us not go aside to the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel, but we shall pass over unto Gibeah.
And the Philistines stood upon the mount on one side and against Israel on the mount on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned unto their house at Ramah. Then Elkanah had understanding with Hanun his wife, and Jehovah remembered her.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel set themselves in array to fight against them at Gibeah.
Jehovah therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And Naomi said unto her, If they bind me with seven green cords that were never dry, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
And she shall not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her, let her take her heed.
Brethren, I thought not to have laid hold: but one thing, that forget the things that forget them, and that which was right,
Then said David to the Philistines, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the hosts of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land unto my place.
Zebulun hath not cast out the inhabitants of Naphtali, nor the inhabitants of fifty men; but the Canaanite dwelleth in the midst thereof, and they become tributary.
And he went to Ramah, and came to the great water in Zoar; and he asked the people, saying, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, They are at Ramah.
And they saw the men of Israel, who were beyond the valley, and that were beyond the Jordan, that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons died; and they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came in, and dwelt in them.
And they put away strange gods from among them, and served Jehovah's servants; and his soul was wroth because of the affliction of Israel.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, and Samuel communed with Saul on the top of the house.
By so much much covenant hath Jesus become surety.
And he made him that abideth over the nobles among the people: Jehovah made me rule over the mighty.
And we perceived that they could not enter because of unbelief.
saying, Our house is making a oblation in the city, and my brethren have commanded me to be there: now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go away and see my brethren. This is the king's table.
And Jonathan again made David swear, because he loved him; for he loved him with the love of his soul.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim, in Judah. Therefore they called that place called up Perez to this day. Behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And there remained of all the number of Benjamin only six hundred men that were able to escape, and fled into the wilderness: and they abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
So that ye may needs receive tithes; but there of whom the witness is that he liveth.
By faith also, with Sarah, he received the power to create even past the world; because he regarded he that had promised to be faithful.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
Therefore on that day he called him Havvoth-jair, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath thrown down his altar.
For we know him that said, Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord, I will repay it. Again, Jehovah will judge his people.
Rejoice in the Lord always: I will say, Rejoice.
He shall take the tithe of your sheep, and ye shall be his servants.
And when he was come into his house, he took the knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, according to her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
having chosen rather to be afflicted with the people of God, than to have the will of sin for a time.
Him therefore I hope to send as possible, when I can know how things shall go for me.
And he made him king, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
And in all his counsel David prospered; and Jehovah was with him.
And he said unto him, Thus saith sharply: Israel did not take the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
This day Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee, and cut off thy head; then will I give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God that is for Israel.
Now the children of men were children of Belial, not knowing the Lord,
Pardon, I pray thee, the trespass of thy handmaid: for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house; for my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
even as it is right for me to think this of you, because I have ye in my heart, since I have in bonds, and in my defense, and in the defense of the gospel, all of you, all of you are partakers of grace with me.
And David spake and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, said, Who shall go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And the trees said unto the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And all Israel heard, saying, Saul hath smitten the host of the Philistines; and Israel hath become a stench among the Philistines. And the people were called after Saul at Gilgal.
Then said Saul to his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and slay me; lest these uncircumcised come, and slay me, and mock me. And his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Then Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And Micaiah laid the hand of the Levite, and the young man was to him for a priest, and he was in the house of Micah.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, O Benjamite: shall the son of Jesse give one of you fields and vineyards? will he make thee captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds,
and choose him out of all the tribes of Israel, to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to wear the ephod before me? and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offerings by fire of the children of Israel.
Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Thyatira, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of them, nor of Achzib, nor traded, nor swaddled, nor Rehob;
If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, we will serve you: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, ye shall be servants, and shall serve us.
And he took it out in his hand, and went on, and ate as he went. And he came to his father and to his mother, and gave them, and they did eat; but he spake not unto them, that he had taken the honey out of the dead of the lion.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have done wrong: roll me now a great stone.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for it is his battle, and he will deliver you into our hand.
And horsemen fled, while they tarried, and passed beyond the way, and escaped unto Silla.
And the five men went and came to Laish, and saw the people that were in the midst of them, dwelling confidently, according to the customs of the Zidonians, quiet and quiet; and there was none ashamed in the land in matters, but they wandered afar off from the Sidonians, and have no word with man.
For God is my witness, that I long for you all with the love of Christ Jesus.
And God rewarded the wickedness that Abimelech committed against his father by smiting his seventy brethren.
Then he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him: because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, he could not do it by day, but he did it by night.
As soon as ye enter into the city, ye shall find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat until he come, because he shall bless the sacrifice. Then then the guests shall eat: and then go up, because ye shall find him this day.
And it came to pass, when he turned back from following David, that Saul went against the Philistines: and the name of the place was called den.
But they took up the ghost. And they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
Salute all your princes and all the saints.
And Jehovah will deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines: and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And the man went out of the city, out of Beth-lehem-judah, to sojourn where he findeth, and came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to work his way.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you before long, that I may be comforted when I have heard you.
So David arose, and fled that day from the face of Saul, and came to Shimshai his king of Gath.
And Jonathan said unto David, To morrow is the new moon; and thou shalt be visited, because thy seat shall be empty.
And it was told Saul, saying, David is in Ramah in Ramah.
And there were taken captive two of the wives of David, and Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
So all the people went to Gilgal; and in Gilgal they made Saul king before Jehovah; and peace-offerings offered peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced with great joy.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed art thou by Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
And David went out, when Saul sent him, and he succeeded. So Saul set him over the men of the war, and it pleased all the people, and pleased the servants of Saul.
And Eliab his elder brother heard when he spake unto the men; and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why hast thou come down? with whom hast thou forsaken them that few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the heart of thy heart; for thou hast come down to see the battle.
And all the men of Israel rose up from their place, and set themselves in array at Baal Tamar, and the ambush of Israel came out of its place, out of the slopes of Gibeah.
And he sent, and brought him in. And he was white and well favoured, and goodly to look. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him: for this is he.
But now they study to a land, that is, one heavenly: therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
But Hanun would not go up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
Behold, I will put the wool of wool in the threshing-floor: if the dew be upon the fleece of the fleece, and upon all the earth, I will know that thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken.
Now therefore, if thou hast done truth and truth in making Abimelech king, and if thou hast done well to overthrow Baal and his house in the work of his hands;
And the king said unto her, Fear not; for what hast thou seen? And the woman said unto Saul, I have seen gods to come up from the earth.
Why hast ye rejected my sacrifices, and my gifts which I commanded to be offered in the temple? and thou hast more honoured thy sons than me, to eat the first-fruits of every offering of my people Israel?
For it is known that our Lord is the seed of Judah, a tribe which Moses spake nothing concerning the priests.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name, the son, and the child grew; and Jehovah blessed him.
For the law hath a shadow of good things to come, and not the image of the things, can not with those sacrifice which they offer year by year continually make the men to be perfect.
But Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for this day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
So that we may say, The Lord my helper, and I will not be afraid: what shall man do unto me?
And the man said unto him, I am come out of the army, and have fled this day from the battle. And he said, How did it go, my son?
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I will say, Thy house and thy father's house shall walk up and down before me for ever; and now, saith Jehovah, be it far from me: for he that honoureth me will I honour; and they that despised me shall be despised.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day, if ye hear his voice.
that it appeared to pass through all the Praetorium, and to all the rest, that I was a prisoner for Christ.
Whosoever rejected the law of Moses shall die without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And he rose up, and followed his wife: and he came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou he that spake unto the woman? And he answered, I am.
Then come down, thou, the remnant of the nobles, as his people; Jehovah, come down with me in the midst of the mighty ones.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bear not; but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And David said unto himself, Some day shall die with me by the hand of Saul; but the only thing shall I go into the land of the Philistines: then will Saul remember that I will take me out of the land of Israel, and I will escape from him.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the sepulchre of his father. And he had judged Israel twenty years.
being faithful unto him that set him, even as Moses in all his house.
Then said it unto Saul, Behold, the people sinned against the Lord, taking the blood with the flesh. And he said unto them that told him, Let now a great stone roll unto me hither.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
The lion and the bear hath thy servant smitten; and this uncircumcised is the Philistines as one of them; for he hath reproached the ranks of the living God.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did not I deliver you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And Saul was very wroth, and the saying was displeased him; and he said, They have showed David ten thousands; and they have appointed me thousands: and what can he have more than the kingdom?
Let us draw nigh with a true heart in the fulness of faith; having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having washed our body with pure water,
And this is the sign that cometh unto thy two sons, to Hanun and Phinehas, in one day they shall die both of them.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Though thou holdest me, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah. For he knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after Dan their father, who was born to Israel: but the former name of the city was called.
And the people were moved with compassion for Benjamin, because Jehovah had poured out his wrath upon the tribes of Israel.
if by any means I shall obtain the resurrection from the dead.
And thou shalt go forth from thence, and shalt come to the oak of Tabor; there shall be three men meet thee, that are going up to God at Beth-el: the one shall bear three male goats, one shall bear three loaves of bread, and one shall bear a skin of wine.
And Micaiah said unto them, I will make you a riddle, which if ye tell me within the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty of thirty colors, and as many coats:
And David heard in the wilderness that the Rehoboth was of the sheep:
So they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to its place, that it may not kill us nor our people. For there was a plague of confusion throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.
Now the words which David had spoken were heard, and told them unto Saul, and called him.
So David went, and the six hundred men that were with him, and came unto the valley, or, whither they were left behind.
So shall all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; and they that love him, as the sun goeth out in his might. And the land rested forty years.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of raiment unto them that declared the dark; and his anger burned, and went up to his father's house.
But I trust in the Lord that I also will shortly come.
And at the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast brought forth a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the multitude of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men and women were upon the roof, looking upon the time to the Syrian.
And the messengers came in, and, behold, the teraphim were upon the bed, and the bands of the goats' hair.
For of the messengers of the messengers said he, Thou art my Son, I have begotten thee to-day? and again, I will be a father, and he shall be my son.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren: I will sing praises unto thee in the assembly. And again, I will trust upon him.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the vessel that was beside it, wherein were the gold, and set them upon the great stone: and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and made sacrifices unto Jehovah on that day.
And after him Jair the Gileadite rose up, and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
In this way God, being determined to show more abundantly unto the heirs of the promise, the preacher of his counsel, with an oath with an oath;
And the servants of Ahijah said unto him, Is not this David king of the land? is it not of this one they sing in dancing, saying, Saul hath smitten among his thousands, and David was among his thousands.
And Saul persecuted David from that day and thenceforth.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in Hor-hoim; and Jonathan went into his house.
And Saul would have sent his spear through him, and smote him to the wall; but he arose and went into the wall: and that night David fled, and fled.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever those that are sanctified.
Now when he had gone, the king's servants came, and saw that the doors of the summer house were shut; and they said, It may be that he is in his summer house for a sure purpose.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O mighty man.
And the kings came and fought, and fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no profit of money.
only ye that are glad of the gospel of Christ Jesus, that, having come and seen you, whether absent I hear of the things concerning you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul, strive with the faith of the gospel,
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised unto them a saviour, and fourscore son of Gera, a Benjamite, a Benjamite, whose right hand was shut; and the children of Israel sent by his hand a present unto Eglon king of Moab.
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand: and this shall be a sign unto us.
who in the days of his flesh, having made supplication, and besought him that was able to save him, who was able to save him out of death, with strong crying and tears; and having been heard because of his godliness),
And he said, I pray thee, I pray thee, that we have in the city sacrifice into the city, and my brother hath commanded me: and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren; therefore shall he not come to the king's table.
And the Amorite drove the children of Dan into the hill-country; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley;
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the second day of the month, that David's place was empty. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why cometh not the son of Jesse to flesh, neither yesterday, nor to-day?
Gilead hath remained beyond the Jordan. Why did Dan dwell as a sojourner with the ships? Asher sat at the edge of the waters, and by his sleep he hath hasted down.
His adversaries are broken, Jehovah, he shall thunder upon them in the heavens; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, And giveth strength to his king, And will exalt the horn of his anointed.
But David went out from Saul to feed the sheep of his father in Beth-lehem.
And it came to pass, in the days of Pekah, the son of Beor, in the days of Jehiel, the caravans of the caravans, the caravans of the guard, had ceased unto the ways.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy strength, and thou shalt deliver Israel out of the hand of Midian: know that I have sent thee.
And Elon the serpent died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
Shall ye not possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to possess? and whosoever Jehovah our God hath driven out from before us, they shall we possess.
even as he said unto another, Thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchizedek.
Let it be in all goodness, that ye may do his will; doing in thee that which is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom is the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
So Saul saw David from that day from that day.
And it came to pass the next day, that a evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house; but David played with his hand as on another days; and the spear was in Saul's hand.
And after him, Elon the Pelonite was the judge of Israel: and he was judged for Israel ten years.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Where goest thou? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were not found, we came to Samuel.
And Abigail came into the Carmelite; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, like a feast of the king; and the heart of Nabal was glad within him, and he drank unto nothing; but she did not tell him any thing, nor any more or more, until the morning.
And Samuel said, Let all Israel come to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for thee.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel answered, saying, Thy servant heareth.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the thorn, and taught the men of Succoth.
And Jesse made Shammah to pass by; and he said, Jehovah hath not chosen this man.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why is he to be put to death? what hath he done?
So Saul called all the people to go down to the war, to go down to the tent of Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And David said unto the Philistines, Come thou to me with a sword, and a spear, and a javelin: but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the hosts of Israel, wherein thou hast reproached.
For they that say such things tell plainly that they seek the country.
always in every request of mine on behalf of you all making my petitions with joy:
And a woman cast a piece of a chariot upon the head of Abimelech, and rent his skull.
because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, nor did the fierceness of his anger upon Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done unto thee this day.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak in Ophrah, in the field of Joash the Archite, the Archite; and his son was threshing wheat in the place where the grapes were rent, so that the Midianites might not see it.
Then David and his men, about six hundred of them, went out of Keilah, and departed wheresoever they were able to go. And Saul heard that David had journeyed from thence, and went not thither.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines had besieged this, that the fame of them was noised into the midst of them, that Jehu was come into the city, that they compassed him together at the gate of the city, and watching there all the night in silence, that in the morning they might kill him as he went out.
and see an adversary in my stead, in all that he doeth good with Israel; and there is not an old man in thy house all the days.
And they put his armor in the temple of the firmament, and fastened his body unto the wall of Beth-Shan.
Rejoice in the Lord always; I say, Rejoice.
But Hanun did not go; for she said unto her husband, I will not go until the child is taken from the breast, and I will take him with me, and put him before Jehovah, and he shall be for ever.
So David and his men rose early in the morning to return unto the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And the son of Shelemiah went down to Timnah, and saw a woman of the daughters of the Philistines.
And he had thirty sons riding on thirty cloths, and they had thirty cities, and called them Havvoth-jair, unto this day, which is in the land of Gilead.
Now in saying a new, he hath made the former old: and that which is fketh and waxed old, is at the end thereof.
And Samuel said, Shall Jehovah desire burnt-offerings and sacrifices, and not rather that the voice of Jehovah should be hearkened? for the obedience is better than sacrifices, and to hearken rather than to offer the fat of rams.
And thou, Lord, in the beginning laid the foundation of the earth: The heavens are the works of thy hands.
And as he spake with them, behold, the breach, the Philistines of Gath, the name of name, came up out of the ranks of the Philistines, and said the same words; and David heard them.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread round about all the land, eating, drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
As for all the works they have done from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt unto this day, they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they do unto you also.
But one hath testified, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or son of man, that thou visitest him?
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words: for I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then shew me a sign that it is thou that speak with me.
nor that he should offer himself oft, as the high priest goeth into the sanctuary year by year with blood not his own,
But if ye continue to do wickedness, thou and thy king shall be destroyed.
And the lords of the Philistines went over with their hundreds, and their thousands; and David and his men came after them.
Where there is none of forgiveness, there is no more a offering for sin.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and told them in the ears of Jehovah.
For whom Jehovah loveth he will give him life, And chastened every son whom he receiveth.
And he smote it on the pan, or a pot, or a pot, or a pot; and the priest took of it all that the purple was brought up. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
And they set them up Micaiah's graven image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Saul said, Draw ye hither, all the chief men of the people: and know and see that this sin hath been this day.
And this we will do, if God suffer.
And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanite that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanite dwelleth in the midst thereof in Gezer.
that ye may be perfect and blameless, the children of God without fault in the midst of a perverse and perverse generation, among whom thou art shining as stars in the world;
But I was exceeding glad in the Lord, that your care is for me to live; though thou didst seek me, yet thou wast not able to perform it.
And being perfected, he became the fountain of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him.
Speak unto the people, and publish in the hearing of all, that I may be terrible men, and let him return. So two and twenty thousand men departed from mount Gilead, and returned to home, and ten thousand remained.
So Jesus therefore, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate.
For I have no one that is minded, who will be careful of you.
And he said unto all Israel, Ye are on one side, and I and Jonathan my son are on another side. And the people said unto Saul, Do that which is good in thine eyes.
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
Neither did Naphtali cast out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Abiram; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the thresholds, became tributary unto them.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Ezekiel, Why hast thou set thee over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And now the king goeth before you, but I am old and greyheaded: and my sons are with you: and my sons, when thou art with you from my youth unto this day, behold, I am.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
And when they had done these things unto the first tabernacle, all the priests went in doing the work of service.
And Enoch said unto him, How long dost thou deceive me, and tell me falsehood? tell me with which thou mayest be bound. And when thou shalt play the seven locks of my head with a cord, and bind them about a nail in the ground, I shall be weak.
And he smote them from Aroer, until ye come to dwell, twenty cities, and unto Abel, which is set in the vineyards with a great slaughter: and the children of Ammon were humbled by the children of Israel.
For that princes led in Israel; For that the people willingly offer themselves, bless Jehovah.
So Abimelech went up unto Zalmon, he, and all his host that were with him, and Abimelech took the iron in his hand, and cut down a sheaf, and lifted it on his shoulders. And he said unto the army that was with him, What thou hast seen me, do also.
And when the burning was to rise up out of the city as a pillar of smoke, Benjamin looked behind, and, behold, the whole city ascended up to the heavens.
For our God is a devouring fire.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased Jehovah to make you a people for himself.
but lead your lives worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you, or am absent, I hear your stewardship, that ye stand in one spirit, with one soul against the faith of the gospel;
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, that I will cause my laws upon their hearts, and I will write them upon their heart.
But if ye are without correction, of which all have been made partakers, then are ye careless keepers, and not children.
Therefore prepare ye one new shekels, and two young king kine that have never had a yoke upon them, and thou shalt dress the kine to the cart, and turn their calves from following them to their own stall.
And if thou be afraid to go down, thou shalt go with trembling thy servant to the camp;
And Jesse called unto Abinadab, and caused him to pass by the presence of Samuel: and he said, Upon this Jehovah also hath not chosen.
And Hanun answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sad spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
The kings have come to the battle, the kings of Canaan strove; in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, they took no profit in money.
And they made their hearts glad, when behold, the men of the city, the sons of Belial, compassed the house, beat at the door; and they spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
And the watchmen saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, If thou wilt show us the way into the city, we will be gracious unto thee.
And by faith Moses, when he became a man, he would not be named the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
Saul dwelt in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the bath that is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, was the son of Chislon.
And David said to Joshua the priest, The king hath commanded me a matter, and said, Let no man know what thou art sent by me, and that which I have commanded, I have given thee; and I have appointed my servants unto such a place.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house: and the child served Jehovah before Naaman the priest.
And Mesha came into Mizpah unto his house; and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels, and with dances, and save her alone, he had no son or daughter.
And behold, Saul came after the cattle from the field; and Saul said, What the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
so that my bands are made manifest in Christ, in all the court, and in all other places;
God will smite upon the enemies of David, and so shall I return, if I leave anything that is his till the morning, not even one male.
And it said unto his wife, We shall surely die; for we have seen God.
And they found him also, and they fought against him; and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
And Jonathan made David to swear again, for the love that he had unto him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Now to our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
For God had kept a certain thing for us, that it might not be fulfilled.
And he came to the men of Succoth; and he said, Here is many and Zalmunna, about whom thou hast reproached me, saying, Is the fiery rain and perfection in thy hand now, that we should give food to thy weary?
Then the rest of the nobles and the people came down: and Jehovah came down for me against the mighty.
And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take counsel, and speak your mind.
And Saul cast the javelin upon him to smite him: and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to put David to death.
Zebulun was a people that fed their life unto death; Naphtali also is upon the high places of the field.
Now Baruch the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, came up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of Arad; and he went and dwelt among the Amalekites.
And unto the second priest, the second priest, the second priest, every year, the second priest, the high priest, the high priest, the high priest, the high priest, the high priest, the chief priest, the son of Israel, the son of Israel, the son of Israel, the son of Israel, the son of Israel, the second priest, the high priest, the high priest, the high priest, the chief priest, the second priest, the second priest, the priest
And she arose, and bowed herself upon her face to the ground, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
But his lord said unto him, We will not go out of our way into a strange city, whose people are not of the children of Israel; but we will go into Gibeah.
And he returned after a time to take her, and he turned aside to see the calf of the lion; and, behold, there was a swarm of bees in the carcases of the lion, and honey.
or that he should offer himself many times, as the high priest entereth into the holy places every year with blood not his own;
So Jesus therefore, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
And they forgat Jehovah their God, and he delivered them into the hand of Ornan, the captain of the host of Enaim, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth shook.
And Amaziah said unto the son, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me what thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shouldest bake the seven locks of my head with the veil.
And the tent was prepared, the first one, the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called the holy place.
For it was he, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many children to glory, to make the prince of their salvation perfect through sorrows.
And said unto him, Where then is thy glory, thou that said, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? Is not this the army that thou hast despised? I pray thee, go forth now, and fight against them.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, did he return from the slain of the kings, and blessed him,
When therefore he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and oblation ye have not desired; but thou hast prepared a body for me.
All the saints salute you, specially they that are of Caesar's household.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, we have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim and the extortioner; and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Jonathan said unto David, The Lord, the God of Israel, be witness; and when I have heard my father this day, this day shall I not send to David, will I not send and tell thee?
The brethren that are with me salute you. All the saints salute you: especially they that are of Caesar's household.
And Saul said unto David, Thou canst not go against this of the Philistines to fight with him; for thou art but a child, and he a man of war from his youth.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened to thy voice in all that thou saidst unto me, and have made a king over thee.
And the Philistines gathered all their armies unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped at a well that is in Jezreel.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel gathered together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And they sent the ark of God into Ekron: and when the ark of God was come into Ekron, the Canaanites cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to kill us and to our people.
And Saul said, Hear now, I pray thee, son of Ahitub. And he said, Here I, my lord.
And the children of Israel went up, and down from thence every man to his tribes, and to his family; and they went out thence every man to his inheritance.
Hearken unto your princes, and be ye ready; for they watch over your souls as they that shall give account; that they may do this with joy, and not groan; for this is a unprofitable thing for thee.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: ye shall not serve the gods of the Amorite in whose land ye are alive; but ye hearkened not unto my voice.
Then all the Midianites, Amalek, and the people of the east gathered together, and passed over the Jordan; and they encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And Samuel took the bottle, and put the oil upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is not Jehovah with the holy oil to make thee ruler over Israel his people? and thou shalt rule over the people of Jehovah, and thou shalt deliver them from the hand of their enemies round about them; and thou shalt be the sign for thee:
who hath been made up not according to the law of the flesh, but according to the power of riot of riot.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not; for we have added to all our sins by asking a king for ourselves.
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, We will not go into his tent, neither will we go into his house.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for from all this people I know your evil ways.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, If thou wilt hide me, I will not eat; but if thou shalt make a burnt-offering, then let it be offered unto Jehovah: for it was not remembered that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And he made him a sword that had two ends, a cubit in length; and he had girded it under his garments upon his right thigh.
and ye shall take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the golden jewels, which ye shall return unto him for a trespass offering, and put it in the forepart thereof, and put it away that it may go.
and take their daughters unto them for wives, and their daughters have given their sons, and they shall serve their gods.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Put thy hand.
And David went up from thence, and encamped in the stronghold of Engedi.
And the house was full of men and women; and all the multitude of the Philistines were there; and upon the roof there were about three thousand men and women, who looked on and Attai the same son.
And David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And Hanun, in prayer before Jehovah, said, My heart is glad in Jehovah; my horn is lifted up in Jehovah: My mouth is opened over mine enemies, Because my joy is in thy salvation.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they each departed unto his place.
And not one of these received the good things of the covenant, though they were all received by faith.
So David was hid in the field, and it was the new moon: and the king sitteth down by the food to eat.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah.
And it came to pass after days, in the days of wheat harvest, that Shema the son looking after his wife with a kid of the goats, and said, I will go in unto my wife into the chamber; and her father would not forbid him.
And David said unto his young men, Let every man gird his sword; and they girded on every man his sword. And David girded on his sword, and there followed David about four hundred men, and two hundred remained with the vessels.
And he brought him into his house, and he fed the asses; and they washed their feet, and ate, and drank.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken to their voice, and thou shalt make king king over them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
For thou reason to give the glad tidings from the first day until now.
And when he had finished prophesy, he came to the high place.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel: and Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped by Korah: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Then Harbonah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him chief head, and captain over them; and hahajah told all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And when Samuel rose early to Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
And the hair of his head shall grow up, when he is shaven,
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.
And the man arose to go away; but his father-in-law would not let him go, and he lodged there in the night.
Let us therefore, seeing we are round about so great a cloud of witnesses, cast aside every weight, and the sin which is ready to be under us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us.
And they said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hath this happened in Israel, that there should be one tribe in Israel?
And, O Lord, thou hast founded the foundation of the earth, And the heavens are the works of thy hands.
Think this in yourselves that was also in Christ Jesus:
and he took captive the women and all that were therein, both small and great: they slew not any, but carried them away, and went their way.
And Baal rebelled the son of Joash, and dwelt in his own house.
And the men of Israel were called from Naphtali, from Asher, and from all Manasseh: and they pursued after Midian.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered themselves together to offer a great sacrifice to shear their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered Ishmael our enemy into our hand.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest for fourscore years.
And Abimelech said unto his servants, Behold, ye see a man that is mad, why do ye bring him in unto me?
And David said to Ornan the priest, The king hath commanded me a matter, and hath said unto me, Let no man know of the business wherein I send thee, and what I have commanded thee; and I have set the young men to such as such a place.
And afterward the children of Judah pursued to fight against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and the South, and the lowland.
And David was greatly afflicted: for the people thought to stone him; for the soul of every man was grieved for his sons and for his daughters: but David took courage in Jehovah his God.
And Jair died, and was buried in the sheepfolds.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel: and Israel went out to meet the Philistines to battle, and encamped at Ebronah, and the Philistines encamped at Aphek.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Show the right. And Jonathan and Saul were chosen, but the people escaped.
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law: and the days died not.
And if it was possible for the priests of the house of Levi, ( for the law was given unto the people); and there was that need of another priest, who was of the order of Melchizedek, and not of the commandment of Aaron?
And Saul's brother said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee.
And the king of the children of Ammon would not hearken unto the words of Japhlet, which he sent him by the messengers.
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid of the flock, and sent them by the hand of David his son to Saul.
Now therefore take ye, and prepare yourselves a new cart, and two milk kine, upon which there is no yoke; and bind the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
So shall we go out unto him without the camp, and bear his reproach.
Then a man of the multitude told him, and said, Thy father made the force swear, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread to-day; and the host is faint.
Then they took their bones, and buried them under the shekel in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And again, when he brought in the first begotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took a harp, and played with his hand. So Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
and by faith it is known unto us, that the word of God hath been ordained unto us, that the things which is seen hath not been made of the things which are seen.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels; Thou crowedst him with glory and honor, And didst set him over the works of thy hands.
For this cause the things that were in the heaven cleanse with these gifts; but the things which they are made clean with precious offerings than these.
So the Philistines fought, and Israel was overthrown, and every man fled unto his own dwelling; and there was a great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
For where there is a covenant, the death of the covenants must come.
So they shut up the queens round about, and chased them, and trod them down with prosperity over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And he did not make any more to redeem himself: as the high priest goeth into the sanctuary every year with blood, which is not his;
And David heard in the wilderness that the swine was sheep of sheep.
And now arise thou early in the morning, and the servants of thy master that are come with thee, when ye have risen early in the morning, and have light, go ye.
And the land was forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And almost all things, according to the law, are cleansed with blood; and without shed blood there is no release.
And Saul fell down upon the ground; for he was afraid with the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all that day.
For neither the first covenant was sanctified without blood.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them from the hand of their enemies round about,
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which is good in thine eyes: abide until thou hast wrestled him: only Jehovah established his word. And the woman stayed and nursed her son until she had weaned him.
But many of the brethren in the Lord, being confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
But if I am poured out upon the sacrifice and the ministry of your faith, I rejoice and joy with you all.
So Israel set a ambush round about Gibeah.
Then David came to Ziklag, and sent some of the spoil unto the elders of Judah unto his friends, saying, Behold, here is a gift for you from the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah.
Hearken unto them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, that they may do it with joy, and not with sorrow; for that is unprofitable for you.
For there is a casting aside of the commandment, which goeth before, and in their weakness, and in vain.
Again, the glory of Israel shall not speak falsehood, neither will he repent: for he is not a man, whose purpose is changed.
Then went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Return in, my lord, turn in unto me; be not afraid. And he came in unto her into the tent, and she covered him with a pot.
And it came to pass, when the flame went up from off the altar toward heaven, that the angel of Jehovah went up into the flame of the altar, and died and his wife looked; and they fell upon their faces toward the earth.
And the princes of the Philistines went out; and as oft as they went forth, David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was highly esteemed.
And it came to pass, when the time came to give the hand of Saul's daughter, that Esther's daughter, to David, she was brought to Adriel.
And the son of Zebedee, and his father, and his mother went down to Timnath; and they came to the vineyards of Timnah, and suddenly a young lion came to meet him.
Because of the hair of the mighty men of Israel, Because of the multitude of the children of Israel, they shall give thanks unto Jehovah.
Behold, my daughter, who is a virgin, and his concubine; let me bring them out, and humble them, and do unto them as seemeth good in your sight: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.
Seeing therefore it abideth that some should enter therein, and they to whom the Good tidings was before preached to enter in because of disobedience;
And they said, What man is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? Behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh Gilead, to the congregation.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in the stronghold, and tarried in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph: and Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
And he that sacrificeth said unto him, Let the fat first be burnt to day according to the custom, and take as much as thy soul desireth. And he answered and said unto him, Nay; but thou wilt give me me now, or I will take it by force.
And it came to pass within a long time, in the time of wheat harvest, that Shema the son visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in unto my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he greatly oppressed the children of Israel twenty years.
Which way he did that which he hath made for us, new and living, through the veil, that is, his flesh.
And Shema the son went to Gaza, and he saw a woman a harlot, and went in unto her.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
And Boaz called Samuel, and said, And Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the border of the Philistines seven months.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
and know that our brother Timothy hath been loosed, with whom I shall see thee, if he shall be healed.
If then any exhortation in Christ, if any man love of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any man and compassion,
And she arose, and bowed herself down with her face to the ground, and said, Behold, let thy servant be a handmaid, to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, there is found in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver, let us give it to the man of God, that he may tell us our way.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Let the woman know what I have spoken unto her.
But this with an oath by him that said unto him, The Lord hath sworn, and he will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever.
And now abide thou and see this great thing which Jehovah will do before thine eyes.
And Saul said unto the servants that stood about him, Hear, I pray thee, O Benjamin: shall the son of Jesse give thee all fields and vineyards? shall he make all thee captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at time.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: The sceptre of uprightness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And it came to pass, when they heard that David said, They told Saul, and sent him.
And the men of Israel and Judah arose, and pursued after the Philistines, until they came to the valley and the gates of Ekron; and there fell many slain of the Philistines in the way of Ramah, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron, and unto Ekron.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall ye come to Jonathan, the servant that is saved for Israel? let it not be so: Jehovah liveth, not one hair of his head, for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people held Jonathan from death.
And the name of the man was the name of Nabal; and the name of his wife was Abigail, and the woman of good understanding, and of beautiful form; and the man was hard and evil; and he was a raven.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I beseech you, bread to the people that is with me, for they are faint, that we may pursue us; and we rebelled against the kings of Midian.
For he also is angry: but God dealt kindly with him, and not with him only, but also with me, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
But if not, let the fire come forth from Abimelech, burning up the city of Shechem and Beth rao; and there shall be a fire out of the country of Shechem, of Shechem, and against it, for the destruction of Abimelech.
And the Syrians answered and said, Behold, the king of Amalek, come hither unto me. And the Syrians came to him, and trembling. And Hadad said, Behold, the grief of death is perished.
Neither neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that enter into Dagon the house, tread on the threshold of Dagon at Ashdod unto this day.
And when he had finished offering, he sent away the people that carried the tribute.
And the Philistines were afraid, saying, God is come into the camp. And they said,
and may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is of the faith of Christ Jesus, which is of God, righteousness in faith.
And the king said, Seek thou his son this youth.
Therefore ye shall make the images of your wares, and the images of your merchandise that mar the land; and thou shalt make glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he shall release his hand from you, from your gods, and from thy land.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I will give her unto thee; only be thou valiant for me, and fight the battles of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armour in his tent.
And early in the morning when the sun rose up upon the city; and when he cometh out against thee with his people, do unto him what thou shalt be able.
And Enoch said to Bidkar, Tell me, I pray thee, where thy great strength lieth, and that which thou mayest be bound to afflict thee.
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
And a high priest over God's house.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
And he ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head. And the Philistines saw that their course was dead, fled away.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David, There is no pleasure to the king in dowry, but in a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge the king's enemies. And Saul thought to cause David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And when their fathers, or their brethren, come and afflict them, and say unto them, Give us unto us as an benefit; for we have not taken them as wives for ourselves in war; and if ye also have given them to us, ye would have been guilty of the broken oath.
Wherefore we receive a kingdom, that can not be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God with fear and godly fear:
And now this blessing which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, it shall be given to the young men that go up and down at my lord's feet.
And the king's lords came up to her, and said unto her, Well, brethren, and see how his great strength is, and how we prevail against him, that we may bind him to prevail against him; and we will give thee every one of thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
But for all this, thou hast forsaken me, and served other gods; so will I be your saviour.
And he said unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What sort of men were they that ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one was the king's sons.
And he brought them into his house, and killed the asses; and he washed their feet, and drank, and drank.
And touching the matter which thou hast spoken, behold, Jehovah is between thee and me for ever.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they also were gathered together to follow him. And he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
And Micaiah said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me, that I may feel the pillars upon which the house standeth, that I may lean upon them.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself.
But if I say thus to the lad, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee, go thy way; for Jehovah will send thee away.
And David perceived that Saul devised mischief against him, and said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod.
And they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat their God, and served the Baalim, and served them.
Swear to me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, nor take away my name from my father's house.
And the three first-born of Jesse went and followed after Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and his first-born was Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And it came to pass, when they were by Jebus, that the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come now, I pray thee, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusite, and dwell therein.
And they were many priests, because they were hindered by death.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed the flock of his father at Beth-lehem.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards;
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was sore distressed.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now set us a king to judge us, like all the nations.
Ye yourselves also know, that ye, in the beginning of the gospel, in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly was made with me in the matter of giving, and receiving but ye only.
Behold, here is my daughter, a virgin, and his handmaid: I will send them out for thee to take them, and to do with them whatsoever thou shalt: but do not commit this such thing to this man.
And when all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from before him, and were sore afraid.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and the wicked man.
All the saints salute you, especially those of the household of Caesar.
And he ran to Naaman, and said, Here I am; for thou hast called me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And the lad went, and David rose up from the side of the south, and fell upon his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David exceeded.
And they found them, and they fought against him, and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And they said, Thou hast not gained us, neither hast thou oppressed us, neither have thou taken anything from the hand of any man.
And neither neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that enter into Dagon the house, went on the threshold of Dagon at Ashdod, unto this day.
So all the people went to Gilgal, and they made Saul king there before Jehovah in Gilgal: and they sacrificed peace-offerings there before Jehovah. Then Saul rejoiced there with all the men of Israel.
And horsemen fled while they lingered, and passed beyond the graven images, and fled to Zoar.
But Sihon spared not Israel to pass through his border: and Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped at Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse our consciences from dead works to serve the living God?
When Jehovah sent thee on your way, he said unto thee, Go, ye shall utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them, until ye have destroyed them.
And the hoofs of the horse were sounding, because of horses, and horsemen, and horses of his steeds.
And, behold, Saul came after the cattle out of the field. And Saul said, What aileth the people, that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Who were seven hundred mighty men of valour, warring with the left hand, as well as with the right; and stoned stones, that they might smite the hair, and not delay of the stone that went on.
For yet a little while, and he that cometh will come, and shall not tarry.
And Jehovah discomfited, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before the face of a sword; so that he, when he did not, he cast down his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
For the ten sons of Jerubbesheth, and their blood came upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and on the lords of Shechem, who made his hands to slay his brethren.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is in Ramah in Ramah.
And if it shall come to pass, that the name of Jonathan shall be cut off from the house of David, that Jehovah will appoint charge David.
And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
For consider him that hath endured such strife against himself, that ye grow not weary, and faint in your souls.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah: I am a sojourner to sojourn whithersoever I shall find a place.
And they set up the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gerar, the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests in the tribe of Dan, until the day of their captivity.
And he stood and cried unto the companies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? choose for yourselves a man, and let him come down to me.
And the woman bare a son, and she called him a son: and the child waxed great; and Jehovah blessed him.
And Samuel told the people the law of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah: and Samuel sent all the people, every one to his own house.
For every house is builded by some man; but he that created all things is God.
So David took of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thy house: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy soul.
So David took the spear and the pitcher of water from off the head of Saul's head; and they fled without any man, nor knowing them, nor awaked; for they were all sleeping, because a deep sleep fell upon them.
Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
And they drew up their host against Benjamin the third time, as they had done the first and second.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of the assembly will I praise thee.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, saying, Send me to David thy son, who is in the field.
And it said unto them, If indeed ye would make me king, come ye and rest under my shadow: but if ye do not mean it, let fire come out from the thorns, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised up a saviour for the children of Israel that delivered them; Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Let nothing be done by strife, neither by vain glory; but in the lowly let every man be better than themselves.
And concerning the matter whereof thou, and I said, Behold, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
Have I not mad, that ye have brought this man to contend in my presence? shall this come into my house?
For indeed it cometh to pass, that the commandment of the commandment went before, when of the weakness thereof, and of idleness,
But if ye can not tell me unto me, thou must give me thirty linen garments, and thirty loaves. And they said unto him, Tell thy riddle; let us hear it.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak that was in Ophrah, that pertained to Joash the Archite; his son, in the winepress, was beaten out in the winepress, to hide it from Midian.
It is grieved that I have set up Saul to be king; for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And Samuel was wroth, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And after this he had lain in love with a woman in the valley of lust, and her name was called.
And to whom he sware, they would not enter into his rest, except they that were disobedient?
And God chose new princes, and war was at the gates; a small shield or a spear was not found among forty thousand in Israel.
But let your way be worthy of the gospel of Christ, that, whether I come and see thee, or am absent, I may hear of thy estate, that ye stand in one spirit, with one soul striving for the faith of the gospel;
And he brought down the people to the water; and Jehovah said to her, Every one that delicately of the water with his tongue, like a dog, thou shalt set him by himself; and every one that boweth down on his knees to drink.
And there was nothing lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, nor spoil, nor any thing that they had taken unto them: David recovered all.
whereunto we have entered after us, Jesus, according to the order of Melchizedek the priest, having come for ever.
And every one that was in distress, every one that owed him, and every one that was grieved, gathered themselves unto him; and he was captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
And God sent a evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech.
Let us hold fast the confession of our faith without wavering; for he is faithful that hath spoken;
And it came to pass, when the Kenites journeyed, that he left his brethren the sons of Achor, the sons of Achor, the kinsman of Moses, and pitched his tents unto the valley that is called Zoar, and was near Kedesh.
then thou shalt cry for thy king, whom thou hast chosen thee; but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And Saul said, Come hither, and offer me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the two wives of David were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
We therefore, having so great a cloud of witnesses, set round about us, every weight having cast off, and suffered sin, we run by patience to run into a man.
For the law shall appoint men the chief priests, having sickness: but the word of the oath which is according to the law, the same is fulfilled for ever.
And he said unto him, We are in our way from Bethlehem Judah, unto the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim. I came from thence, and went to Bethlehem Judah: now I am at my way, but no man shall take me into his house.
and again if they shall enter into my rest.
And now be this sin against Jehovah, that I should cease to pray for thee, and I will teach thee the good and the right way.
And again, when he sent his only Son into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God serve him.
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
But the fulness of the feast is with the rich, even to them that learn to know the good and the evil.
And the children of Israel went forward against the children of Benjamin the second day.
For men indeed swear by a greater, and with them the oath is a earnest to all men, as making a matter sure.
And David's men said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do unto him as it seemeth good unto thee. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's mantle secretly.
And all the valiant men went out, and went all night, and took the body of Saul, and the dead bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And the priest gave him holy; for there was no bread there, but the exact bread that were taken from before Jehovah, to put upon hot bread in the day when they were taken away.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David hasted to get away for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men to take them.
While Saul was yet speaking unto the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines increased more and more. And Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
( Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, Tell us, how did this evil work?
I appeal unto the sect of the Lord, and I appeal unto you briefly.
For our conversation is in heaven, from which we wait for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
but unto the second priest, the chief priest only, once a year, not without blood, which he offered for his own, and the people of the people:
And she said unto him, How sayest thou, I have loved thee, and thy heart is not with me? these three times thou hast played upon me, and hast not told me by thy great power.
For our freedom is in heaven, from whence we are our Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
And the lad came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot; and Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Behold, the arrow is still beyond thee.
and thou shalt hear what they say; and afterward shall thy hands be strong to go down unto the host. Then went he down with his servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in the host.
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse, when thou gavest him bread, and a sword, and inquired of God for him, that he might arise against me to lie down against me, as hath been done this day?
And Moab humbled that day under the hand of Israel; and the land rested fourscore years.
And David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of the hill afar off, and great the place between them.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him; and they fell before Jonathan, and smote his weapons after him.
And Jonathan called out after the lad, and hasted, and hasted, and tarry not. And Jonathan's servant gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, in which was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread, which is called the sanctuary.
And he said unto David, Thou art righteous, and I am innocent: for thou hast recompensed me good, but I have given thee evil.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What thing thou hast done unto us, that thou shouldest not call for us when thou goest to fight with Midian? And they contended with him.
And Ezekiel said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in trouble?
For ye are not come into a mountain that would be touched, and a burning fire, and a whirlwind, and darkness, and storm;
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they both of them went out into the field.
And the words were heard which David spake, and they told them before Saul; and he sent for him.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon: and it shall be seen that thou art not present, for there shall be none in your throne.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent: and if any one cometh, and saith unto thee, Is there any man here, say, No.
and unto the assembly of the first-born, who are written in heaven, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous,
And he brought back the silver unto his mother. And his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them unto the carpenter, and made them a graven image, and a molten image; and it was in the house of Micah.
And Deborah said unto Bidkar, Rise up. This is the day that Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand. Hath Jehovah not gone out before thee? And when they went out, they went out from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men followed him.
Afterward thou shalt come unto the hill of God, where the Philistines' garrison, and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither into the city, that thou shalt meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place, and before them the harp, and the tabret, and the pipe, and the harp, and they shall prophesy.
And the children of Israel set the ambush round about the city of Gibeah.
Let us draw nigh with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having the hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having the body bathed with pure water.
For thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall touch his head; for he shall be a Nazirite of God, from his youth, and from his mother's womb; and he shall deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
But if thou canst not answer me, then thou shalt give me thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Avenge me, and let us know what it is.
And he cried unto the people, and unto Abner the son of Ner, and David said, Answerest thou not answer, Abner? And Abner said, Who is that crying out to the king?
And he came to the fields in the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave.
Then he went in, and prepared a he-goat, and made an ephah of fine flour; and he put the flesh in a basket and the pottage thereof, and put it in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and gave it to him there.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not to the words of Japhlet that he had sent him.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear to me by God, thou shalt not kill me, neither shalt thou shut me into the hand of my lord, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us go on unto one of these places, and stand for the night in Gibeah or Ramah.
And Jehovah again cried again Samuel, and Samuel arose, and went to Ish-bosheth, and said, Here I, for thou hast called for me. And he said, I have not called, my son, turn back, lie down.
And I exhort you, brethren, bear the word of the exhortation: for I have written unto you by few words.
And there was a sign to the men of Israel with the ambush, that they should bring up a great roll out of the city.
And the priest said, Behold, the sword of the Philistines, whom thou hast slain in the valley of Elah, is here wrapped in a napkin behind the ephod: if thou wouldest take that, take it; for there is none else except that here. And David said, There is none like that; give it unto me.
Then said Saul unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye sons of Jesse; give every one of you field and vineyards, and make you all captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds;
because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, neither did thou set his fierce anger upon Amalek; therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish answered and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what ye have to do.
And he said unto them, I will ask you one: give to me the earnest of your spoils. For the Ishmaelites was accustomed to wear gold.
For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ.
And David's servants came to Carmel to Abigail, and they said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee to bring thee to him as his wife.
And the woman saw Samuel, and cried with a loud voice: and the woman said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me, and Saul?
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it, and gave him Achsah his daughter.
And it came to pass at the time that Saul saw David going out against the Philistines, and said unto Abner the captain of the host, Of what is this young man descended, Abner? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
Wherefore he was a debtor to be made like his brethren in all reverence, that he might become a gracious and faithful chief priest in the things that told God, that he might make atonement for the sins of the people.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, or what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be the king's king's law?
And it came to pass, when the judge died, that they turned back and corrupt themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their own doings.
And Jehovah had appointed Samuel one day before Saul, saying,
And Ezekiel said unto them, I and my people were heavy in great battle against the children of Ammon; I called thee, but thou hast not delivered me from their hand.
And they possessed all the border of the Amorites from the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, and unto the Jordan.
And it came to pass, that David repented greatly to destroy the skirt of Saul.
And if ye are beside correction, of which all have become partakers, then ye are careless keepers, and not sons.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, and we will slay them.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak unto her, to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house: and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and fire rose up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of Jehovah departed from his sight.
And he said unto them, The Lord is a witness against you, and his anointed witness this day, that ye find no thing in my hand. And they said, A witness.
I would go out after it, and will smite it, and deliver the sheep out of its mouth. If it arose against me, I would lay hold on the beard, and smite it, and slay it.
and he made the women and all that were there, both small and great, that they had not slain them, but had taken them all away.
And Saul came to the city of the Amalekites, and set a ambush in the valley.
Thou shalt not take thy servant to be a man of Belial: for my words have come from me, sorrow and sorrow.
And Achan the son said, With the jaws of an ass, a heap, two heaps, with the jaws of an ass I have slain a thousand men.
So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring out from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Bela, Gibeath and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Samuel saw Saul no more until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned over Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And I will have mercy upon their iniquity, And will not forget their transgressions.
And Gezer went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
even as it is righteous for me to think this in behalf of you all, because of my having ye in the heart, both in my bonds, and the defence, and the good news of the gospel, all of you with me of grace.
Again he doth rule a certain day, saying, This day is, that in David said, After so long time, as it was said, To-day, if ye hear his voice, ye shall not harden your hearts.
For we that have believed have entered into that rest, even as he said, As I sware in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest; although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
They shall say, Peace be with thee, and will give you two cakes of bread, which ye shall take from them.
The bow of the mighty men are broken; And they that stumbled are girded with strength.
And they asked him, saying, Repent, and interpreted, an ear of grain. But he answered and said, Smite, not to utter ears of grain by the same letter. Then they took him, and slew him in the midst of the Jordan. And there fell at the time of Ephraim two and forty thousand.
And the people of Beth-shemesh were reaped the wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark; and they were glad to see it.
And Saul said, May God do so, and do so, and more more: for thou shalt surely die, O Jonathan.
if how I shall arise to the resurrection of the dead.
and so he that abideth patiently, he received the promise.
And it came to pass in the morning, that the man arose, and opened the door that he might end the journey, and behold his concubine laid before the door with her hands spread on the door.
And he took a young man of the men of Succoth, and asked him; and he wrote unto him the heads of Succoth, and the elders thereof, seventy and seven men.
that the violence done to the seventy and ten sons of Jerubbesheth might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, who did charge him in the hand of his brethren.
And if the Levites were full of the priesthood, for the people had their law given unto them in the midst of them that had been moved, and that a certain priest should arise according to the ordinance of Melchizedek, and not be mentioned after the ordinance of Aaron?
For if this had been possible, would there not be made an end of them, because those that fear should have been made clean, and should have no more known any more of sins?
but in those sacrifices there is a year appointed of sin.
And when the people came unto the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Why hath Jehovah smitten us this day before the Philistines? we took us from Shiloh the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and it cometh into us, and he will save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And he said, When thy words then come, what shall be the child of the child and his doing?
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Though thou holdest me, I will not eat thy bread: if thou shalt prepare a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah. For he knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And it spake again, and said, Behold, there come men down by the midst of the land, and another company come by the plain of Millo.
And the prophetess said, I beseech thee, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord: I am the woman that stood before thee here praying to the Lord.
And Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other side of the mountain. And David hastened to depart from Saul, while Saul and his men were over David and his men.
and without faith it can not please him: for whosoever shall come to God to believe that God is, and that he is a gift of all them that seek him.
and she lay him down upon her knees, and he called for a man, and shaved the seven locks of his head, and began to afflict him, and his power turned aside from him.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and led away their cattle, and smote among them a great smiting, and David helped the inhabitants of Keilah.
And this is the image of the present time: when the oblation which are given shall not be able to make the heart clean,
But faith is of things hope for a confidence, not seen a reproof.
And it came to pass, when Joshua had come to the Jordan, that he passed over it with the three hundred men, that were with him; and they weary that they could not pursue after them that fled.
For he looked for a city that hath the foundation, Whose builders and his Maker is God.
But the angel of the Lord appeared no more unto him, and to his wife. And he knew that he was an angel of the Lord.
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the families of the city of Millo; and they went and made Abimelech king by the oak that stood in Shechem.
and went forth into the fields, and wasted the vineyards, and tread down the grapes; and singing and dancing they went into the house of their god, and in their feast, and in flagons, they brought up Abimelech.
Out of Ephraim those whose root was in Amalek; After thee was Benjamin among thy people. Out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the staff of the ruler.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head: for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
and the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the new shepherd of the sheep, our Lord Jesus Christ, in the blood of the everlasting covenant,
But ye have forgotten the exhortation that speaketh with you as with children, my son, be not careless of the chastening of the Lord, neither be weary, being reproved by him.
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law a second time.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them. So Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that land.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called the place of the place Esek.
For I am merciful unto their iniquities, And I will remember their sins no more.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew of them thirty men, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of garments unto them that told the dark; and his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her out unto them; and they knew her, and laid her all night until the morning; and let her go when the dawn arose.
whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, And whose glory is in their shame, that think of the earth.
The wise among her maidens answered; Yea, she answereth her.
And what shall I say? for the time would fail me to speak on, and of Cuthah, and of Tekoa, and of Japhlet; of David also, and Samuel, and Samuel, and the prophets.
And these were all dead in faith, having not received the promises: but when they saw them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
And there was terror in the camp, in the open field, and among all the host of the host. And the people trembled, and the earth shook, and it became a very great trembling.
And Saul knew that Jehovah was with David; and he loved all Israel.
And the three first-born of Jesse had gone after Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next unto him, Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And when they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man, the Levite; and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what doest thou in this? and what hast thou here?
And he stripped off his clothes, and prophesied before Samuel; and he lay naked all that day and all night. Therefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For I know this very thing, that he through whom the good work abounded in you shall be fulfilled until the day of Jesus Christ:
And Saul longed to be afraid of the presence of David; and Saul was an enemy with David all the days.
And after Abimelech there arose to defend Israel, of Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in array in mount Ephraim.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, O my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
And Saul's servants spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Doest it to be a light to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
For every high priest took from men, according to men pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins:
And the men did so, and took two milk of milk, and bound them unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year, and a ready of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in.
Then Naaman answered and said, Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
as they have done from the first, from the day that I brought them forth out of Egypt unto this day, and turned away from me, and serve other gods, so now they shall commit you the same way.
So then, rising up early in the morning, thou and the servants of thy lord that came with you: when ye rise early in the morning, and it is enough enough for you, leave ye.
Go, I pray you, prepare, and know, and see his place where his foundation is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very treacherously.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble ( for the people were distressed), then the people hid themselves in the caves, in the thickets, and in the rocks, and in the graves, and in the pits.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came unto the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth was moved.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell also upon his sword, and died with him.
And her father said, I thought that thou hatest her, so I gave her to thy friend: is not her younger sister more beautiful than she? I pray thee, take her.
And Saul and all the people that were with him were called together, and came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, a very great confusion.
Now the Philistines gathered their armies for war, and came in array in the land of Judah, and encamped between Zobah and Azekah in the gate of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee, because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I know what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
Then Hanun rose up after eating and drinking at Shiloh. Now, behold, the priest sat in his seat at the posts of the house of Jehovah.
And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land.
And she bare a son, and called his name a son: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
The things which ye learned received, and heard, and saw in me: do these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And Jonathan stripped the coat wherewith he was arrayed, and gave it to David, and the rest of his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul served Jehovah.
Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same condemnation of disobedience.
And after a time he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the calf of the lion: and, behold, there was a swarm of bees and honey in the carcass of the lion.
And Caleb's son's wife became his companion's companion.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
He raiseth up the poor from the dust; He lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, To cause them to sit with nobles, and to cause them to inherit a throne; For the pillars of the earth belong unto Jehovah, and setteth the inhabited world upon them.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
Let your gentleness be known of all men. The Lord is near.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against the Reubenites, and they rob the store-houses.
Swear therefore now unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and destroy my name out of my father's house.
And when the ambush was stayed with her in a inner chamber, she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son, the Philistines: and he brake the beam as a thread of flax in the fire of Lebanon, and his power was not known.
And Saul thought, saying, I will give her unto him, that she may be a snare for him, and the hand of the Philistines against him. And Saul said unto David, For the second time thou art become my son-in-law this day.
And she said, I will surely go with thee: nevertheless the way that thou shalt not be for thy honour; for Jehovah will sell unto thee, to the woman's hand. And Deborah arose, and went with Bera.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hanun, and the name of the other mite; and the children of Zelophehad had children; but Hanun had no children.
And they came to the land of Midian, when Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father give up the asses, and be careful of us.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me to fight against me: Jehovah the judge judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And they arose, and came to the house of God, that is, to Shiloh; and they inquired of God, and said, Who shall be in our army the first to go to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah answered them, Let Judah be your leader.
And his lord said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.
And Eliab his elder brother heard while he spake unto the men; and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou forsaken them few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the perverseness of thy heart; for thou art come down to see the battle.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, All that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye found not aught in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will surely be with thee; and thou shalt smite Midian as one man.
having confidence of this thing, that he which hath begun in you a good work shall complete it unto Jesus Christ's day:
And David's young men came, and spake to Nabal in the name of David's name, and ceased.
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother: Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
Then David came to the two hundred men that had been too sick to follow David; and they left them behind the brook, or went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him. And David came near with the people, and asked them how they did.
Now Naaman was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that were assembled at the door of the tent of meeting.
And his mother made him a little coat, and brought it unto him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the burnt-offering.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as soon by time, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant if thou shalt hear.
But we have grass and food for our asses, as well as bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us; we have no need of anything.
Then Saul was wroth against Jonathan, and said unto him, O son of the woman, who is the man of a man, do I not know that thou lovest the son of Jesse to thy own shame, and to the shame of thy fierce mother?
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, With the end of the staff which is in my hand I taste a little honey, behold, I must die.
Now therefore, my lord, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing the Lord hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and those that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
And there went forth a certain man out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Dodai, of Gath, whose height was six cubits, and a span.
And by how it was not void without oath;
And he divided three hundred men three men, and put trumpets into the hand of all of them, and empty bowls, and lamps within the vessels.
If it pass through the land of Israel to Beth-shemesh, then great evil is his work; but if not, then we know that the evil was not his doing, but was the working of chance.
And they took the daughters of these nations as wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and became servants unto their gods.
And the people took the provision in their hand, and their trumpets, and every man of Israel, every one of Israel, every one to his tents; and on the three hundred he kept them, and the camp of Midian was by him at the nether part of the valley.
And it came to pass, when he had turned back his back from Samuel, that God gave unto him another heart: and all these things came to pass that day.
And the time was urgent with the Philistines all the days of Saul. When Saul saw any man that was a mighty man, or a mighty man, he set him into his service.
that by two times table, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong comfort, who fled for refuge to lay hold on hope before us:
that this may be no occasion of stumbling unto thee, nor a stumblingblock of heart for my lord, whether thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself: and when Jehovah will deal well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
Then all the evil and vain men among the men that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them any of the spoil which we have recovered, except each man take his own wife and children: they must take them, and go.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses had said, and drove out the sons of Anak there.
The same night said Jehovah unto him, Arise, and go down against their army; for I have delivered them into thy hand.
And he had thirty sons, and he gave him three daughters to wife, without marriage, and brought in from thirty maidens women for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
And the men of Israel were called together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
And when they were on the way to the city, they saw some virgins going out to drink water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
To whom also Abraham divided a tenth of every first place, his name is interpreted by interpretation king of righteousness; and then the king of Salem was king of peace.
concerning whom we have much speech and hard words to say, Seeing ye have been dull of hearing,
As it is said, To-day, if ye hear his voice, do not harden your hearts, as in that wrath.
And every high priest is given power to take unto God the things that are given and sacrifice; and this man must be like unto them, to have something for a oblation.
And they did not hearken unto their judges, but have played the harlot after other gods, and worshipped them; they turned aside out of the way which their fathers walked to obey the commandments of Jehovah, they did not so.
For ye have need of patience, that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
And David took from her hand that which she had brought him. And he said unto her, Go up in peace unto thy house: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and I have granted thy request.
And being made perfect, he became the Prince of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
Why do ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had dealt wondrously among them, they dismissed the people, and they departed?
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no bread the second day of the month: for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him to shame.
according to my patience and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, and in all freedom, even as always; even now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death;
And they took the food of the people in their hand, and their trumpets; and all the men of Israel sent away, every man to his tent, but hid the three hundred men. Now the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
And it fell on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side. But he told not his father.
And roughly said unto her, If thou goest with me, then I will go; and if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And Sheva the son went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And now what is there under thy hand? five loaves give into my hand, or that which is found.
But David pursued, he, and four hundred men, for two hundred tarried behind, that were so weary that they could not pass over the valley of Tobiah.
And they returned unto their brethren in Zorah and Eber, who asked them what they had done?
Jehovah therefore shall be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and condemn me out of thy hand.
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh; for they looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote among the people seventy men, fifty chief men; and the people mourned, because Jehovah smote among the people.
And Saul's servants said these things unto David. And David said, Is it not a small thing to be a son of the king? seeing that I am a poor man, of no great name?
So therefore, my beloved, as ye have at all times that I say, not only when I am present, but now much more when I am not with you, give you your salvation in your hearts;
Behold, ye children of Israel, all of you, give your counsel and counsel.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and that day the children of Israel slew five thousand and twenty thousand, one hundred men of Benjamin, all of them.
And Jehovah discomfited, and all the chariots, and all the army, and all the host, with the edge of the sword before the River; and, Daniel, went down from chariot, and fled on foot.
And the gospel came unto us, even as it did unto them: but the hearing of the word did them no good, because they were not partakers of faith with the true hearers.
And the land was forty years old; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And when they that were left of Benjamin saw this, they fled into the wilderness, and made toward the rock that is called Rimmon: and when they were fled, even as they were alive, they slew of them five thousand men. And as they went further, they pursued after them, and slew two thousand.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of assembly will I sing thy praises.
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah had been pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a oblation at our hand, and he would not shew us all these things, nor would he have told us such things as these at this time.
Now the faith is heavier secretly for things; for they have not seen reproof.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man fail for him: thy servant shall go and fight with this Philistines.
For God is my witness, how my love goeth out unto you in the mercies of Christ Jesus.
And the land was forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And Manasseh dwelt not Bethshean and her towns, and Taanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Netaim and the towns thereof, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its dependent villages; and the Canaanites were to dwell in that land.
And Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
Now therefore, go to, publish in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is terrible and fear, let him return, and go early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart is in Jehovah: my horn is exalted in Jehovah; my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah.
For I thy servant have slain both a lion and a bear: and this uncircumcised of the Philistines shall be as one of them. I will go now, and take away the reproach of the people: for who is this uncircumcised master, who hath bewitched the host of the living God?
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath smitten the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and gave it to thy neighbor that is better than thou.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, and awaked, and awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go out, I will run away; but he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
And the sons of ten sons conceived from his body: for he had many wives.
And when he had set the lamps on fire, he let them go into the ears of the Philistines, and burned up the shocks and the grain, and the Asherim also.
And David was the youngest: and the three elder were with Saul's host.
seeing that we give them our daughters as wives? for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And the arches went in after the blade, and the fat closed upon the blade; for he drew not the sword out of his belly, and it came out between the legs.
And David took of her hand that she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thy house: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and I will accept thy soul.
The valley of Kishon took them away, The brook of old, the brook Kishon: Thou wilt tread down strength, O my soul.
And Saul and the men of Israel assembled themselves, and stood in the valley of Elah, and set their forces against the Philistines.
And Benjamin returned at that time, and gave them the women whom they had left of the women of Jabesh Gilead, and found them not.
The ambush hasted, and rush upon Gibeah; then the ambush went out, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
I hope therefore to send, when I shall see the things concerning me.
There is a man that smiteth the law of Moses without pity on the word of two or three witnesses.
And when Abiathar the son of Nethaniah fled to David in Keilah, he went down with a ephod in his hand.
And they heard themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took possession of the hill-country; for he did not dispossess the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And it came to pass, when he came to a troop, that the Philistines came out, and cried with a loud voice: and the Spirit of Jehovah smote him, and his arms were as grass burned with fire, and his hands fell down.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, then ye shall provoke the mouth of Jehovah: and the hand of Jehovah shall be against you, and against your fathers.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, remained in Geba of Benjamin; but the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
And when David and his men came into the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
And the children of Israel arose in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; And hold such in a name:
And Mesha gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye, Gilead, ye are aliens of Ephraim in the midst of Ephraim, in the midst of Manasseh.
And there was a man that was in the Hebrew, whose business was in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he began to feed his sheep in Carmel.
And his father went down to the woman, and Sheva the son made a feast; for so the young men did.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy kindred, or among all my people, that thou shouldest go for thy wife unto the Philistines, that are uncircumcised? But Achan the son said unto his father, Bring her for me; for she is pleasant unto me.
Ye shall not cast away your confidence, which hath great reward of reward.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tidings hath told thy servant that Saul hath purposed to dwell, and to destroy the city for me.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will entreat you unto Jehovah.
Then saith he, Behold, I am come to do thy will. And he took away the first to establish the second.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my lord, the anointed of Jehovah, to stretch out my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Samuel went up from Gilgal, and the rest of the people pursued after Saul against the men of war, and came from Gilgal to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: and Saul took the number of the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
Have no care; but in everything with prayer and praise set thy petitions before God.
neither by the blood of goats, or of calves, but by his own blood, entered once into the most way, having obtained eternal redemption.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah: who strengthened themselves against them, king of Moab, because they did evil in his sight.
And the men that did not die were smitten with the beasts, so that the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the chariot before them.
And there was no deliverer; for it was far from Sidon, and they had nothing to do with man; and it was in the valley that is by Rehob. And they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
She shall have nothing that cometh from the vine for her food, and shall eat no wine, nor strong drink, nor any unclean thing; let her take heed to do all that I have commanded.
And the lords of the Philistines went with their hundreds, and the thousands of thousands: but David and his men were in the hinder part.
He shall eat thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-trees, and give them unto his servants.
So the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with chains of brass, and bound him in the stocks.
And Rachel's wife wept before him, and said, Thou hatest me, and love me not; thou hast told a riddle unto the children of my people, and have not told me unto me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told my father or my mother, why should I tell thee?
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell also upon his sword, and died with him.
And they answered him, saying, Repent; and he said, Well, and could not speak it. Then they took him, and slew him at the thresholds of the Jordan; and forty and forty thousand Ephraim were slain.
But a certain terrible seeketh for judgment and fierce wrath, which shall devour the adversaries.
And after the second curtain, the tent of meeting, which is holy,
And David sent out spies, and understood that Saul was come in very deed.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his sight was as the appearance of an angel of God, exceeding terrible: I asked him not whence he came, and he told me not his name.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Tabeel and his brethren are come to Shechem: and, behold, they shut up the city against thee.
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: therefore it is of necessity that this man hath something to offer.
And David fled from Mahanaim in Ramah, and came to Jonathan, and said, What have I done? what is my fault, and my sin against thy father, that he would avenge me?
If this people were in my commandment, then would I remove Abimelech; and I would say, Make thy army increase, and come forth.
And he called Zebulun and Tartak unto him, and went up with ten thousand to fight, having fifty and fifty.
And Abimelech answered, Whither have ye made a way to day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the ascent, and against the south of the Kenite.
And Zacchaeus said unto them, I and my people were at great strife against the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hand.
( for he was yet yet in the loins of the father, when Melchizedek did meet him).
Then the Philistines took hold upon him, and pulled up his eyes, and bound him in chains unto Gaza, and beat him in prison.
And again he saith, I will trust in him. And again, behold, I am here, and the children which God hath given me.
And the Levites brought down the ark of God, and the box that was at the side thereof, which were the vessels of gold, and put them upon the great stone: and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and burnt-offerings that day to Jehovah.
And when Saul saw that Jehovah was with David and Michal his daughter loved him,
And David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken; and David recovered his two wives.
And he thirsted exceedingly, and called unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great salvation; and now I die with thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
So Samuel did what Jehovah said; and he came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the city came trembling to meet him; and they said, Have thou come in peace?
Woe unto us, who shall deliver us out of the hand of these honorable gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Now therefore deliver up the men, the base fellows, that are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel. But Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And David was the youngest; and the three elder followed Saul.
And thou, Lord, hast laid the foundation of the earth; And the heavens are the works of thy hands.
And she put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right hand, and thrust it into his belly.
And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, In this will I make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
In these days he spake unto us by a Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom he made the world;
When thou art departed from me to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's grave in the border of Benjamin at the border of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found; and behold, thy father hath left the care of the asses, and fashioned thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
Even so Christ also glorified himself to be made a high priest: but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to-day have I begotten thee.
And Jonathan called for David, and told him all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, who kept him at the past.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire.
And she fastened it with the nail, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: and he awaked out of his sleep, and brake out the nail of the wood, and the screen.
And Achan the son said unto them, If ye do so; for a truth will I avenge on you, and then I will cease.
and it came to pass, because with her words with her words, that he made haste unto him day after day, his soul waxed impatient.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, In this condition will I make a league with you, that ye may bear out the right eye of you, that I may make it a reproach for all Israel.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten, and the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they had trusted unto the ambush which they had set against Gibeah.
And Joshua dismissed the people, and the children of Israel went, every man to his inheritance, to take the land for themselves.
But David dwelt in the wilderness in strongholds, and dwelt in the mountain of the wilderness of Ziph, in the oak of Lebanon; and Saul sought him always; but Jehovah gave him not into his hand.
But the hand of Jehovah was hard upon the people of Ashdod, and he sent pestilence upon them throughout all the region of Ashdod.
And Jacob by faith, as he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, and leaned on the top of his staff.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David made haste to depart from Saul; and Saul and his men sought to compass David and his men.
And Naaman answered and said, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel give thy petition which thou hast asked of him.
And on the morrow the people rose early, and they built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
For if the blood of the goats and the oxen, and the ashes of the heifer sprinkled, and sanctify for the cleanness of the flesh,
whose voice did shake the earth, but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, because we have sworn, the two of us, an oath in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and left; and Jonathan went into the city.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Behold, this nation hath made void my covenant, which I had made with their fathers, and hath despised to hearken unto my voice;
And the Sidonians, and Amalek and Maon oppressed you, and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
The rod of his spear was as long as a weaver's shuttle, and his head was made of six hundred shekels weight of iron: and one went before him with shield.
And it was told the Syrians, saying, A son is come hither. And they compassed all night, and laid wait for him all night at the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning light we shall slay him.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
There is no other holy, as Jehovah; for there is no God besides thee: There is no Rock like our God.
And there came an angel of the Lord, and sat under an oak that was in Ophrah, that pertained to Joash the Archite, and his son with threshing the wheat of wheat, to hide it from Midian.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are the young men finished? And he said, Yet is he left the youngest: and, behold, he delighteth himself among the flock. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and take him; for we will not turn back till he cometh hither.
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I shall seek my father about time to morrow the third, and, behold, it is good toward David: but I will not send thee, and I will not uncover thine ear.
Thou puttest all things under his feet. For in making man ruler over all things, God hath not touched his authority; though we see not all things under him now.
And the messenger answered, and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there is also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, even their burnt-offerings, and Phinehas, died, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass, when she came unto him, that he thought to ask a field from her father; and she alighted from her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What is it?
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had fought against the South and in Ziklag, and had prevailed, and smote, and put it on fire;
( Now all the people of the land used to go into the forest; for honey was upon the face of the ground.)
But his wife said unto him, If the Lord had avenged us, he would not have taken our burnt-offering and our oblation, or have given us such commandment concerning the child.
And now thy king is here, whom thou hast chosen and desired: behold, Jehovah hath given thee a king.
They answered and said unto them, He is; behold, he is before you, make haste now: for he came to the city, because there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place.
So on the morrow the people went out into the field; and it was told Abimelech.
And he sent it to them that were at Beth-el, to them that were at Ramoth of the South, to them that were in Jattir,
As for the parable of the elders, the wicked shall go out of the evil, and my hand shall not be upon thee.
Now I wish you to know, brethren, that I have made my office in store for the gospel;
but the end of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defence of the gospel.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And the princes of the Philistines brought up unto her seven green things that were not dry; and she bindeth him with them.
And he shall appoint them unto him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and he shall appoint some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his weapons of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept the sheep of his father, and there came a lion, or a bear, and took a ram out of the midst of the flock.
in which shall we be sanctified by the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once.
Then Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, thou shalt not be visited for this thing.
Are they not all ministration, sent out for service for them that shall inherit salvation?
And as Samuel offered up the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And the five lords of the Philistines saw, and returned to Ekron the same day.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hear thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
the five lords of the Philistines, all the Canaanites, the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt upon mount Lebanon, from mount Baal Hermon, unto the entrance of Hamath.
And they called the name of the city of Dan after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: for the name of the city was called Galeed.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen, I have seen a son of Jesse the Gilonite, who is skilful in Meshech, a mighty man, a wise man, and a skilful man, and a skilful man; and Jehovah is with him.
In faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testified of his gifts: and by it he was dead yet speaketh.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men, before the rocks of the wild goats.
God, who was at the dry times, and in divers seasons spake aforetime unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die, for we have seen God.
So they sent messengers into the city of Saul, and told the people: and all the people wept.
So he took the army, and divided them into three bands, and laid a ambush in the field. And he saw the people coming out of the city, and he rose up against them, and slew them.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man fall for him: thy servant shall go, and fight with this Philistines.
Hearken unto your princes, and submit them unto them; for they watch over your souls as they that give an account, that they may do this with joy, and not with sighing; for this shall be unprofitable for thee.
And the name of his first-born was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
And David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph in the wood.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me for David thy son, who is with the sheep.
And she said unto him, How can thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me in which thy great strength lieth.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest out to me with sticks? And the Philistines smote David by all his gods.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel, in which the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And the Sidonians, and the Amalekites, and the Meunim, have oppressed you; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
Thou shalt not take away thy lovingkindness from my house for ever, when Jehovah shall have plucked out the enemies of David, every one of them from the earth, shall he take away Jonathan out of his house; and Jehovah will require it at the hand of David's enemies.
And the children of Benjamin gathered out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
And six hundred turned and fled to the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon; and they abode at the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And he made a army, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of the destroyer thereof.
So Saul called all the people together to go down to the battle of Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
So now, get up by night, thou and thy people, and keep watch in the field.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
But as for the sake of the sin, for that sin was not pleased thee.
And Saul said unto his father, He told us for certain that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel had spoken, he told him not.
And Deborah said unto Bidkar, Arise, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand: hath Jehovah gone out before thee? And ran down ran down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
She shall not eat of anything that cometh from the vine, nor drink wine, nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; she shall keep all that I commanded.
And it came to pass, that Joshua rose up early, and all the people that were with him, and encamped by the well of the well; and the camp of Midian shall be on the south of him, on the slopes of Moreh in the valley.
As Jehovah liveth, who is the saviour of Israel, if it be done by Jonathan my son, he shall surely die: in this man none of the people shall deceive him.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from you: for if I know that my father determined evil should come upon you, would I not have told it unto you?
And his daughter in law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child, and in the time when she conceived; and when she heard that the ark of God had been taken, and that her husband was dead, she died, and she travailed.
And Saul said, Bring me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered up the burnt-offering.
How shall we escape, if we refuse so great salvation? Which, having begun to be declared by the Lord, was confirmed unto us by those that heard him.
so that my bonds be made manifest in Christ in the whole hall, and toward the other places:
Saul smote the Amalekites, from Havilah, as ye go to Shur, which is before Egypt.
Then answered David, and said unto him, Surely as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee from the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords do not accept thee.
And it came to pass, when every commandment was spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, that he took the blood of the bullocks, and the goats, and with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book and all the people;
Now therefore ye know how this man was, to whom Abraham also gave a tenth out of the best spoil.
who, being the brightness of his glory, and the free image of his soul, and guided all things by the word of his power, having cleansed our sins, sat on the right hand of the glory on high,
And his mother looked out at the window, and the voice of weeping; and she spake from the chamber chamber: Why is his chariot so long in returning? why are the foot of his horses?
And when David returned from smiting the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul, and the head of the Philistines in his hand.
and though some preach Christ out of jealousy and oppetition, others do it out of a good heart:
Then he called quickly unto the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A women slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And he died, and was buried in Zebulun.
As soon as the dead was fallen, the children of Israel turned back, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made Baal the harlot.
And the anger of Jehovah burned against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
and they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses commanded, and smote the three sons of Anak.
And not only, while I live, thou shalt do with me the lovingkindness of Jehovah; but I die not.
Let the brotherly love continue.
And the men of Israel had turned aside, and the men of Benjamin were afraid; for they perceived that evil had overtaken them.
And she called Samuel, and said, And Samuel, my son! And he said, Here am I.
Therefore I was wroth with that generation, and said, They have erred in their heart ever; but they knew not my ways.
And it came to pass at that time, that, leaning in his place, and his eyes began to be dim, he can not see.
And the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, saying,
And there was a certain man from Jeconiah, from the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Zuph, the son of Zuph.
And he shall take your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-trees, and the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
Take heed therefore therefore, and drink not wine, nor strong drink, neither eat anything unclean.
But now it is impossible to him without faith: for he that cometh nigh to God, must believe that he is, and is a gift of them that seek him.
Here I am. O witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? whose ass have I taken? whom have I defrauded? whom have I hurt? of whose hand have I taken a ransom to make me blind my eyes? I will restore it unto you.
And Zacchaeus went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
But Jonathan called the young man, the speckled, and stood not. And Jonathan's youth gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
And they said, If thou wilt send the ark of the God of Israel away, thou shalt not send it away empty, but by all means return it with a trespass offering: then thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto thee wherefore his hand is not turned away from thee.
And David said to Ahijah, Surely thou knowest what thy servant can do. And Abimelech said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
Now he took away seventy sons, and his own seed; for he had many wives.
And it came to pass, that when Jehovah hath given up my hand into my hand, I will trample thy flesh with thorns and thorns.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, who had the name of Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
For yet a very little while he that cometh shall come, and will not delay.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, that the earth was abated again.
And when they were come into the land of Zuph, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father fail for the asses, and take thought for us.
And it came to pass the day that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man, Come, Come, and let us pass over unto the Philistines, which is on the other side of this; and he did not tell his father.
I will set a wool of wool upon the threshing-floor; and if there be the dew upon the fleece thereof, and all the earth be dry, I will know that thou wilt deliver Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
And David was told, saying, Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floor.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judah in Judah: how much more, if we go to Kadesh against the host of the Philistines?
But I thought to send unto thee earnestly, my brother, and fellow-soldier, and fellowsoldier; but thy angel, and minister unto my need,
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, and said, There was a son, the son of the freewoman, because he had taken his wife, and gave her to his neighbor. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out from Nabal, that his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he was as a stone.
chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to have a pleasure of sin.
For when God promised unto Abraham, because he sware by no greater oath, he sware by himself,
How much more, if the people had eaten willingly in the day of the spoil of their enemies, which they found? for there was not now a great great slaughter among the Philistines?
Where the remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and they sacrificed there sacrifices of peace before Jehovah. And Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear to me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, neither deliver me up into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
Yea, he putteth his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou hast seen, and thou rejoicest: wherefore shouldest thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David?
And Saul and his men went to seek him. And they told David, wherefore he came down into a rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard that he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer; go up before me into the high place, and ye eat with me this day, and I will send thee away in the morning, and I will tell thee all that in thy heart.
And there came out three bands of men from the Philistines to fight; one band passed by the way that leadeth to Jahaz into the land of Libnah.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: but what I shall choose, I perceive not.
Speak no more words of pride; Let not rebellious words come out of your mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, by him is judged.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the overseers and officers:
To whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?
And Saul said unto Jehovah, God of Israel, Give the perfection. And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people went out.
And they killed a calf, and offered the child to Joseph.
And blessed be your discretion, and blessed be ye that have brought me this day from blood, and from my hand by my hand.
And Saul answered, Am I not a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my family, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? why then do ye speak unto me like this?
For every high priest took from men, being established for men in the things that spake unto God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins;
Being so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.
And Saul took up a spear to smite him. And Jonathan understood that it was determined by his father to slay David.
But the Kenite dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, and scattered them.
in the measure of my patience, and hope, that in nothing will I be ashamed, but that without fear, as at all times, so will Christ also glory in my body, life or death.
of the teaching of baptizing, and the laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of the eternal judgment.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the stronghold of En Gedi.
And the land was forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
One of the same place answered, Who is their father? therefore it was a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
See, let ye not refuse him that speak: for if they were not escaped that refused to refuse him that were upon the earth, said much less, we that turn away from heaven from heaven.
For the law is appointed, as the chief priests that have no infirmity; but the word of the oath according to the law doth ordain a Son, who is made perfect for ever.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and worshipped them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said to Ornan the priest, The king commanded me, and said unto me, No one ought to know anything concerning this matter that I send thee, wherewith I have charged thee, and the servants. So I have set my servants in a certain place.
For the death shall be in the midst of his death, because it is never in his power while he that made it alive.
and Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor, and the head of his host, to Sisera; and he dwelt in the summer of nations.
Where the chariots were dashed together, and the army of the enemies were choked, there let the righteousness of Jehovah be declared, and his lovingkindness toward the mighty men of Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down into the gates, and received the dominion.
And Deborah complained, and Tilgath-pilneser the son of meeting on that day, saying,
and blessed thy wisdom, and blessed thou that thou hast withheld me this day from coming in with blood, and shut my hand unto myself.
And they said, What man is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? Behold, there came no none unto the camp from Jabesh-gilead to the congregation.
And they said unto him, Ask now the counsel of God, that we may know whether our way which we shall go shall be prosperous.
Thou hast declared unto me this day that thou hast dealt well with me, how Jehovah delivered me into thy hand, but thou didst not kill me.
Why shouldest ye harden your hearts like the Egyptians, and the Egyptians hardened their heart? is it not even as though he dealt with them, so that they cast them away, and they left?
and might set free all them that fear of death, through all their life, being subject to bondage.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is a ephod, and a house of gods, and a graven image, and a molten image? so now ye know what to do.
But call to mind the former days in which, when ye were enlightened, ye suffer much bonds of sorrows.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five goodly stones out of the brook, and put them in the sack's sack which he had, in a sack; and his horses was in his hand: and he drew near unto the Philistines.
And the men that died not were smitten with the preparation of the lust: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And Jonathan said unto David, I will do it for thee.
and that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
For consider well him that endured so great strife from the sinners against himself, that ye be not weary;
When I sware in my wrath, If they enter into my rest.
As many, therefore let us think this; and if ye think otherwise, this also will God reveal unto you.
For Israel had put themselves in array, and the Philistines that stood against them were prepared.
And it came to pass, when they rose up, that his father 'father-in-law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, go not, go not this night; behold, the day is almost gone; take thy rest hither, and let thy heart be glad, and go on thy way to thy house.
And Saul's brother said, Tell me what Samuel said unto thee.
But now he hath gained a more excellent service, according as much as he is of a good covenant, which hath been wrought upon better promises.
Then the woman came, and said unto her husband, Behold, a man came to me, and his form was as the likeness of a god, and he feared him; neither did I ask him whence he came from, and he gave me not his name.
And the Levites brought down the ark of Jehovah, and the present that was with it, in which the vessels of gold, and place upon the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrifices sacrifices in that day to Jehovah.
And the sight that Moses had said, I am afraid and trembling.
But the righteous shall live by his faith; And if he return, My soul shall have no delight in him.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and they served the Baalim, the Gibeonites, the gods of the Syrians, Sidon, Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon and the Philistines; they left Jehovah, and served him not.
And the people, the men of Israel, strengthened themselves, and set the battle in array in the place where they set themselves on the first day.
And they called the name of that place, and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said, Why askest thou me, and Jehovah hath turned away from thee, and is thine enemy?
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he appointed his children to be judges over Israel.
And Jair died, and was buried in the tomb.
And it was told Saul, and he sent other angels, and they prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied.
And all Midian, and Amalek, and the sons of the east, were gathered together, and passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And they went forth into their fields, and found in the fruit of their vines; and when they had eaten the grapes, they made a holy feast, and entered into the house of their god, and over their food, and they had cursed Abimelech.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the anointed of Jehovah, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Saul's servants spake these words unto David. But David said, Is it a small thing in thy sight to be the king's son in thy sight, as I am a poor man, and a man esteemed?
And Zacchaeus said unto the elders, Did ye not save me, and cast me out of the house of my father? why come ye to me now when ye have trouble?
and a helmet of brass upon his head, and a scathern coat of mail, and the weight of the coat, five thousand shekels of brass,
And Abimelech answered and said unto David, I know that thou art accepted of me as an angel of God: nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And Saul was more displeased by David: so Saul became a everlasting enemy of David.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: be not afraid; thou shalt not die.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! let one of the king's servants come over and fetch it.
Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
Now Naaman was very old, and he heard from time what his sons were doing unto all Israel.
And he said, If I have found favor before thee, give me a sign that it is thou that speak unto me.
But David fled from Manasseh, which is at Ramoth-gilead, and came and said unto Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh my life?
But ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore I will save you no more.
And they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart cart, holding the gold and the images of their dough.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah set a saviour unto the children of Israel, and he saved them: Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again to my need.
And it came to pass, when they heard that they say, Thou shalt go down to go down against the camp. And he went down with his servant, and went to the host of the host of the host.
And Saul knew that the voice was David's voice, and said, Is thy voice David, my son? And David said, It is my voice, my lord king.
And when she urged him daily with her words, and urged him, his soul was troubled unto death.
And Saul went home into Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose heart God had touched.
And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up to the stronghold.
And when David heard that the spirit was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath judged the cause of my reproach at the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil, and Jehovah hath turned back the wickedness of Nabal upon his head. Then David sent and showed with Abigail, that he might take her to himself for a wife.
And the princes of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, For this cause we are come to thee, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Jehovah the God of Israel gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: and Israel possessed the whole land of the Amorites, who dwelt in that country.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, with an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And we have had our earthly fathers that have punished us, and we respected them: shall we not much rather subject ourselves to the Father of spirits, and live?
And the men of Israel were to fight in the battle. And Benjamin prevailed, and smote themselves about thirty of the men of Israel, and said, They have fallen before us as in the first fight.
And call the name of the city Dan, by the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: and he is yet called the name of the city at the first.
and to them that were at Hormah, and to them that were in Jekabzeel, and to them that were in Ziklag,
And the king sent to call Abishai the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were at Nob: and they all came to the king.
By faith, Noah, being warned of things, yet did not see, being moved with fear, prepared the ark for the saving of his house; by which he condemned the world, and was heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
For where there is a covenant, there is the death of the man that made it.
And David answered and said to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the son of Zeruiah, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul in the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And when he had brought him, behold, they were lying abroad upon all the land, eating and drinking, and as it kept a feast, and for all the spoil, and the spoil which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
For they all seek their own profit, not those of Jesus Christ.
and unto them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David himself, and his men went about.
And therefore I have sworn to the house of Heli: The iniquity of the house of Eli is not redeemed for, by sacrifice, and for sacrifice, for ever.
Then shall ye say, Because of this, when the Lord hath forsaken and Zalmunna into my hand, I will set thee upon a bed of the wilderness of the wilderness, and upon a bramble, and I will break upon the threshing-floor.
And Saul said, Bring me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
Then went the Abigail of Nabal; and, behold, he was laying a feast in his house, as the king's feast. The spirit of Nabal was taken away, and he was exceeding drunken; and she spake not unto him anything, nothing at all, until the morning.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a hundred and ten years old.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne by the side of the gate, and brake his neck, and died; for he was an old man, and heavy; and he had judged Israel forty years.
And they departed thither, and came into the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and asked of him of peace,
And when the trumpet shall sound in my hand, ye shall blow the trumpets upon every side of the camp.
And Jonathan bowed his bow and arrows to the lad, and said unto him, Take these, and return to the city.
And they said unto him, Ask me, I pray thee, and if he said, Smite; because he could not pronounce him warning, they laid hold on him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time forty thousand fell out of Ephraim.
And all Israel were gathered together against the city, as one man, with one mind, and with one accord.
And these things were fulfilled in the first month, the priests to come at all times, to confirm the service.
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou shouldest remember him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
and I will go out, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and will speak of thee with my father; and see what it is, and tell thee.
And they said unto the messengers that had come, Thus shall ye say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow ye shall have salvation when the sun is hot. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh-gilead; and they were glad.
Remember them that were over thee, and gavest thee the word of God; knowing the way of life, let thy faith be like theirs.
Neither did Asher cast out the inhabitants of Libya, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Minnith, nor of Achzib, nor of Achzib, nor of Rosh, nor of Rehob;
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice and goodly man, and there was not a master of Israel among the children of Israel, from his shoulders and upward above all the people.
Swear therefore now unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, neither shalt thou destroy my name out of my father's house.
And David said unto Ahijah, What have I done? what hast thou seen in thy servant, while I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go and take up arms against them that are now ready to fight against my lord the king?
And there was no counsellor in all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, For fear the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears:
And Jonathan sware unto David because of his love: for David loved him as his soul.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' married, went up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
So all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, joined together as one man.
And his sons did not walk in his ways: but they turned aside by gain, and took gifts, and perverted judgment.
And the men of Benjamin fell ten thousand men: all these were men of valor.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favour in thine eyes. And the woman went on her way, and ate, and her countenance was not for it any more.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his people over Israel; and now hear the voice of Jehovah.
Now at the present time, men over whom death taketh the tenth: but then it was taken by one of whom it is witnesses.
And the children of Benjamin, that came that day of the cities, were twenty and six thousand men armed with swords, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, seven hundred chosen men of valor.
And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon: and Israel said unto him, Let me now go through thy land unto my place.
And now, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah have provoked thee against me, let him accept a offering; but if the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah: for they have driven me out this day from taking unto the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
and the sound of the trumpet and the voice of the words, which they had heard, besought that a word might be added unto them.
Yea, these came into the house of Micah, and took the graven image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What are ye doing?
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them unto the place of Ahijah.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take spoil among them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do all that seemeth good unto thee. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither unto God.
For our God is a devouring fire.
Then said Saul unto his servant, Well said, Come, let us go. So they went into the city where the man of God was.
And the children of Asher drove not out the inhabitants of Mizpeh, Sidon, and Ohad, and Achzib, Shuni, and Rehob, and Rehob,
And the children of Benjamin went out of Gibeah, and destroyed the land of the children of Israel that day twenty and two thousand men.
And it was so, that by Abraham the Levite, who received tithes, was made to pay tithes.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth, and from the beginning of their going forth, David walked more than all the servants of Saul, and his name was very mighty.
And thou shalt show this day what thou hast done unto me; how Jehovah delivered me into thy hand, and thou hast not slain me.
And by faith Moses, when he was come unto years, and refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Therefore as many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as many as the sand that is by the sea-shore, were begotten of one man, and him as much as dead.
And all Israel was exceeding sorry, and repented for the casting of one tribe out of Israel.
And the woman bare a son, and called him a son: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be the king in law unto the king?
where neither the first, apart from blood, was girded with himself.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will go down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings to offer sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou wait, until I come unto thee, and I will tell thee what thou shalt do.
And David dwelt in Gath at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, the wife of Nabal.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things; and his heart died within him, and he became a stone.
But Midian, and Amalek, and all the east men, lay abroad in the valley, as a multitude of locusts; and their camels were innumerable as the sand that lieth on the sea-shore.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over beyond Aven.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
And they would camp against them, and destroy the fruit of the land as far as Gaza; they left no increase in Israel, nor sheep, ox, or ass.
And the hand of the children of Israel pressed with Jabin king of Canaan, until they destroyed with Jabin king of Canaan.
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal unto the ocahairoi.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old,
And the child Samuel waxed on, and increased both with Jehovah, and also with men.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man that is come up? he hath surely come up to defy Israel: the king shall give great riches unto the man that smiteth him, and shall give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And Ephraim did not dispossess the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanite dwelt among them in Gezer.
But I trust in the Lord, that I myself also shall soon come.
And he said unto them, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother: As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst saved them, I would not put you to death.
Therefore I said, Now the Philistines shall come down against me at Gilgal, and I will not yet entreat the face of Jehovah. So I, I will offer myself, and offer the burnt-offering.
Therefore Jehovah smote Baal, and slime, and Iphtah, and Samuel, and Samuel, and brought you out of the hand of them that fought against thee, and saved thee.
to whom also the tenth of all did Abraham divide; first, indeed, being interpreted by interpretation, the King of righteousness; and then the king of Salem, which is the king of Peace),
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went forth both of them into the field.
Then answered Jehovah, and said, O Lord, the man of God whom thou hast sent, let him come in, I pray thee, again unto us, and inform us what we do to the child that is born.
And every priest shall stand every daily offering and present the sacrifice for the sacrifices, which can not take away sins.
For otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered, because they that worship, having been purified by once, and for all, had no more any conscience of sins?
For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not yet speak of another day.
Let him preach one of contention, that is the Christ, not with guile, that, supposing my bonds to swell,
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are good, whatsoever things are righteous, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are beloved, whatsoever things are of good tidings; if there is any power, if there be any praise, think of these things.
In those days there was no king in Israel; but every man did that which was right to himself.
because he was yet in his father's body, when Melchizedek came to him.
And the people and the princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For who, when he hath found his enemy, will let him go well? But Jehovah will reward thee for this good turn, for that thou hast done unto me this day.
For Hanun's prayer was uttered from her heart, and she did not sound her lips: So it seemed to pass that she was drunken.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
I went out after him, and smote him, and took it out of his mouth: and if he turned upon me, he came at me, and I took him by the hair, and smote him, and slew him.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. And the land had rest forty years in the days of the plague.
And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab, eighteen years.
And he had brass breeches upon his legs, and a javelin of brass between his shoulders.
Women received their dead raised again again; and others were grieved, not given deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
And a man of that place answered and said, But who is their father? therefore it was a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed down and travailed; for her pangs came upon her.
And from that day, Saul loved David.
And they said unto him, Be silent; say nothing, and come with us, and serve us, and serve us: is it better for thee to be priest to one man's house, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?
And they slew Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all fat, and all men of valor, and not a man escaped.
And Achan the son answered and said, If I shall be bound with seven cords, I have not yet dry, but yet I shall be weak.
And he said, What hath Jehovah spoken unto you? hide me not, lest God be upon thee, if thou shalt keep from me anything that he hath said unto thee.
And David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken; and David delivered his two wives.
Then all the children of Israel took their arms, and gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And the peace of God shall keep your hearts and your mind in Christ Jesus.
So in the day of battle, there was not a sword, or a spear found in the hand of all the host that was with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and Jonathan his son had had them.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took a stone, and smote it, and smote the Philistines in his forehead. And the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the earth.
So Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
God delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what could I compare with thee? Then their spirit was entreated of him, when he said that word.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, that my enemy should go and escape? And Michal answered Saul, He said unto me, Let me go, lest I kill thee.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near unto one of these places; and we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And Saul returned from following the Philistines, and told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah now require at the hand of David's enemies.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? It shall be no more. As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he should not die.
And the inhabitants of the inhabitants that dwell in the camp eastward, and the inhabitants of the inhabitants of the inhabitants that dwell in the camp, and the inhabitants of the inhabitants that were in the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of the camp, and the inhabitants of
And the princes of Succoth said, Is the hand of Zebah and Zebah in thy hand, that we give thy hands bread?
And they said, Thou hast not hated us nor persecuted us; thou hast taken nothing from any man.
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them; but the child drew not his sword; for he feared, because he was yet a child.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
Then said he, Behold, I am coming to do: he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
And the number of them that fed with their hand were three hundred men: and all the people bowed down on their knees to drink water.
And Saul said, Proclaim yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring near unto me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and kill them here, and eat them here, and sin not against Jehovah with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew there.
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell, they were about for seven days.
and thus said, To life, and thou, peace; and thy house, peace; and all that thou hast, peace.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you; and I am old and greyheaded; and, behold, my sons are with thee; and I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
And Saul enquired of Jehovah; but Jehovah answered him not, not by dreams, nor by the Urim, nor by the prophets.
And it was so; and he rose up the next day, and pressed the wool, and drained out the dew out of the fleece of wool, a full drinking of water.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearkened unto his voice, then ye shall not provoke the mouth of Jehovah, and ye shall be, both ye and the king that reigned over you, after Jehovah your God.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines: and they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
So the two of them sat and ate and drank together; and the father of the damsel said unto the man, Come, I pray thee, to lodge the night, and enjoy thyself.
And between the passages, where Jonathan sought to pass over unto the place of the Philistines, the border of a rock on the one side, and the bank of a rock on the other side, and the name of the one is Bozrah, and the name of the other.
To Jesus, a new covenant, and the blood of the man that speaketh better than that of Abel.
And the Amorite drove the children of Dan into the mount; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley.
For we have not here a eternal city; but we seek one that is to come.
Wherefore, brethren, since we have confidence for the entrance in the sanctuary through the blood of Jesus,
And if a man hath lifted up arms against thee, and put thy life in safety, yet the soul of my lord shall be delivered in the assembly of the living with Jehovah your God; and he shall cast away the souls of them that are against thee, as hewers of a bag.
And the man said unto him, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled this day out of the host. And he said, How did the matter go, my son?
Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be so minded: and if ye be otherwise minded, God will reveal even this unto you.
And his base was at Ramah, where his house was; and there he judged Israel, and made there an altar unto Jehovah.
And David and his men went up, and plundered the Geshurites, and Gerar, and the Amalekites: for these were of old the inhabitants of the countries, to Shur, to the land of Egypt.
And Jehovah came and stood there, and cried as before, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant shall hear.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul and with Jonathan his son there was found.
And when he had thus spoken, he put forth the mouth of his hand out of his hand: and the name was called Melatiah.
And he took the young goat and the grain offering, and offered it unto Jehovah on the rock, to him that doeth the power of his power. And Jehu and his wife watched.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and he built there an altar unto Jehovah.
And Micaiah said unto them, If ye shall pass thus, surely I will set my full reward from you, and that shall be the end of it.
And he brought near the tribe of Benjamin according to their families, and the family of the lot was taken by lot. And Saul the son of Kish was chosen; and they sought him, but he could not be found.
who in the days of his flesh, having prayed and supplications with strong cry and weeping to him that was able to save him from death, had his prayer answered because of his fear of God.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Behold, I have spoken that thy house and thy father's people should stand before me for ever: but now, thus saith Jehovah, Let it not be so; I will honor them whom I am glorified; and I will accept my eyes.
And Jehovah called unto Samuel, and said, Here I am.
And the king said unto Bidkar, Turn, and fall upon the priests. And the Edomite answered, and fell upon the priests, and slew that day the day of the ephod was upon the priests.
They put his array in the house of Chinneroth; And his body was fixed upon the wall of Beth.
And when he had ended prophesied, he came to the high place.
Nevertheless ye have done well unto my affliction.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak unto David earnestly, saying, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants have loved thee, and now be the son-in-law of the king.
Praise Jehovah for the vengeance of Israel, When the people willingly offer themselves.
but we are not among them that are disobedient to destruction, but among them that have faith unto the hope of our souls.
If one man sin against another, God will judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? But they hearkened not to the voice of their father, because Jehovah was minded to slay them.
For the earth, that is drinking in the rain many times coming upon it, and bringeth forth herbs worthy for them, for whom also it is arrayed, shall partake of blessing from God.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hear ye the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and riding upon an ass, with five maidens that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
The same fight which ye saw in me, and now have spoken of me.
looking to the Prince, and plentifully of faith, Jesus, who before the joy set before him, suffered a cross, shame having despised, on the right hand of the throne of God sat down.
And the men of the forces spake to Jonathan, and to his armorbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said to his armorbearer, Let us go up, follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And after Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, both men and women, both infants and infants, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
So Michal smote him through the window, and he fled, and fled.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, surely Jehovah will smite him, or his day shall come, and he shall die; or he shall go down in the battle, and shall perish.
And they turned six hundred men, and fled into the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and dwelt at the rock of Rimmon four months.
saying, I will proclaim thy name unto my brethren: In the midst of the congregation will I sing in praise of thee.
Moreover as for me, far be it from me, that I should sin against Jehovah in order to pray for thee; and I will teach thee the good and the right way.
and turn not aside after vain things that shall never profit you, nor deliver you; for they are vain.
And it came to pass, when they were come into the land of Zuph, that Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return, lest my father cease over the asses, and be careful for us.
And the words which David spake, and they told him before Saul, and he received him.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines began the battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder that day upon the Philistines, and they troubled them, and they were overthrown before Israel.
And your servants, and your handmaids, and your young men, and your asses, shall he take, and shall prepare for his own work;
And David was stronger than the Philistines with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistines, and slew him, and there was no sword in the hand of David.
Seeing then it is found for some to enter into it; and they that did first hear good tidings came not in because of unbelief.
For I have told him, that I will judge his house for ever, because he knew that his sons did wickedly, and did not chastise them.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal: and the ambush of Israel came out of their places, even out of the portion of Gibeah.
And the priest said, The sword of the Philistines, whom thou smoowest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take that, take it; for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that, give it me.
And Samuel said, What is the noise of this flock in mine ears, and the sound of the herd which I shall hear?
And he called for his armorbearer, and said, Draw thy sword, and slay me; lest it should be said that I was slain by a woman. And he did as he was commanded, and slew him.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day that I took by their hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt; because they remained not in my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah,
And it came to pass, when these things were in the beginning, the priests also went into the first tent at all seasons, for prayer and the sacrifice.
though he was a Son, yet unsearchable obedience of the things that he suffered.
Now therefore, take ye up, and prepare a new cart, and two kine that have never come under the yoke, and gather the grain to the cart, and take away their young ones from them.
And they took captive the women that were in it; from small unto great they slew none to death: but they led away, and went on their way.
And he judged Israel twenty and twenty years, and died, and was buried in Jotbathah.
And Achan the son's wife wept for him, and said, Thou hast hated me, and hast not loved me; thou hast put the riddle to the children of my people, and hast not told me; and he said unto her, Behold, I have not told my father or to my mother; and I will declare unto thee.
Therefore neither the first covenant was kept without blood.
And Saul sought to guard David to the wall with the spear; but he departed from Saul's presence, and he clave the spear into the wall. And David fled, and fled that night.
And who will hearken unto you in this matter? for as his portion goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that remaineth by the stuff; they shall also part alike.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an everlasting covenant, our Lord Jesus,
Then he separated three hundred men into three bands; and he gave every man a horn, and a vessel in which was a fiery branch.
And when he had finished prophesied, he came to the high place.
Pardon, I pray thee, the iniquity of thy servant: for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house, because my lord provoketh the war of Jehovah, and evil shall not be found in thee all thy days.
And Samuel lay till the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show the vision.
And the king said unto Bidkar, Turn, and fall upon the priests. And Araunah the Edomite turned, and fell upon the priests, and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that had put on a linen ephod.
And Israel drew up against the Philistines in battle, one battle line against another.
Wherefore there fell even from one, and him as it were dead, as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the shore by the shore.
And fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, let this iniquity be upon me, and let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
Then the Lord opened a great tooth in the jaws of the ass, and waters issued out of it. And when he had drunk them, he refreshed his spirit, and recovered his strength. Therefore the name of that place was called, The situation of him that called from the jaws of the jaws, even unto this day.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
The former proclaim Christ from strife, not any perfect thing, to raise up affliction in my bonds.
And the men of the city rose early in the morning, and, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah that is by it was cut down; and the second bullock was offered upon the altar which is built.
As he came up to a troop, the Philistines shouted to meet him; and the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became like the flax that burneth with fire, and his soul was melted from his hand.
For unto you was given favour for Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on him.
Let us therefore fear lest the promise be left of entering into his rest, that ye should be wanting to be lacking.
And Jehiel went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Depart, my lord, turn aside unto me; fear not. And he turned unto her, into the tent, and covered him with a garment.
Why did ye not have the commandments of Jehovah? but with violence that their substance was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And when they came, he saw Eliab, and said, Surely his anointed one is before Jehovah.
And Michal took the house of the house, and put it on the bed, and put it on the head of the goats, and anointed it, and covered it with the garments.
But those of the sons of Levi received the priesthood, a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is their brethren, though they came forth out of the loins of Abraham.
And Hatach sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou against me that thou hast come to fight against my land?
And David said unto his men, Every man put on his sword; and every man put on his sword; and David put on his sword, and about four hundred men followed David, and two hundred lodged by the vessels.
And Samuel did as the Lord had spoken unto him. And he came to Beth-lehem, and the elders of the city marvelled, and the elders of the city met him, saying, Is thy coming hither great?
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, O Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
And the cloud of smoke began to go up out of the city in a pillar of smoke: and Benjamin turned backward, and, behold, the whole city was going up in smoke.
And Ezekiel said unto them, I was in great strife, I and my people, with the children of Ammon; and I called you, but ye saved me not out of their hand.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did as it was right to him.
And there was war again; and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake in pieces the pots, and held the lamps in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow, and cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of perplexity.
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as it is this day?
But without any cause the small is blessed by the greatest.
And Jehovah sent thee on the way, and said, Go, and slay the sinners of Amalek, and fight against them, until thou utterly destroy them.
But the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet fruit, and my good fruit, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And he had numbered the children of Israel: the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? for they had a great oath concerning him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, and deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Swear to me, that ye shall not fight against me.
count not thy handmaid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the abundance of my complaint and sorrow have I spoken hitherto.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him unto me in the bed, that I may kill him.
And Jonathan answered Saul, and David besought me earnestly to go unto Beth-lehem.
having the same well that thou sawest in me, and hear about me.
And all the congregation sent unto the men of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, offering them peace.
And when they went up the way to the city, they found maidens coming out to draw water; and they said unto them, Is the seer here?
There is none holy like Jehovah; For there is none save thee, Neither is there any rock like our God.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devoured Abimelech.
And it came to pass, when they were gone out from the house of Micah, that the men from the house of the house of Micah came, and overtook the children of Dan,
being grievous under correction, God worketh with you as with his sons; for what son is there, whom the father doth not correct?
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us, for this is not done before.
And David departed from thence to Mizpah; and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother stay with thee, I beseech thee, till I know what God will do for me.
But if thou be afraid to go alone, let thy servant go down with thee.
And the children of Ammon gathered together, and encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, saying, I saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: I beseech thee, take her for me to wife.
The high priest shall deal softly with them that are ignorant, and that goeth astray; for he also is compassed with weakness.
Thy servant killed both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised is the Philistines as one of them, seeing he hath reproached the hosts of the living God.
Let us come near therefore with boldness unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace for a striving.
And Elkanah her husband went up, and all his house, to offer unto Jehovah the sacrifice and his vow.
And through faith Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was old, because she judged him faithful who had promised.
according to jealousy, persecuted the church of God; according to the righteousness which is in the law spake without blame.
And it was so, that all that saw it said, It hath not been done from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider ye, take counsel, and speak.
From that time wait until his enemies make the footstool of his feet.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me.
And the Philistines assembled themselves, and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
who believed God, who gave him his place, even as Moses did in all his house.
And David prospered in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcrafts, and the perverseness of idols and idols: because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected you from being king.
And Jonathan answered Saul, and David besought me earnestly to go to Beth-lehem.
And the king sat on his throne, as at other times, even on the seat by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of Siddim, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And Eber the Kenites had separated from the Kenite, even of the children of Achor, Moses' brother, and had pitched his tent unto the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
For when the priesthood changed, there is a change of the law.
And now, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and it shall be for us to deliver him up into the king's hand.
Thou hast put all things under his feet: for in that he put all under subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him: but now we see not yet all things put under him.
And Samuel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son reign over you: Jehovah shall rule over you.
And he ran unto Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
having the same fight as that ye have seen in me, and now have heard of me.
And Saul said, I have sinned, come back, O David my son; for I will not hurt thee again, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done as a foolish man, and have made a abomination.
Then the king sent to call the priest the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob, and they came all of them to the king.
And David said, What have I done? is there not so to speak?
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What evil is this which is done among you?
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, with her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armour, Come, let us go over to the camp of these uncircumcised; it may be the Lord will do for us; for it is easy for the Lord to save either by many, or by few.
Then Harbonah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye are seventy years of Ephraim among Ephraim, and among the Manassites.
Now there was no counsellor found throughout all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears.
I have all things and more than enough: I am replenished, having taken unto us the things which is called from thee, which is come from thee, a ointment of sweet savor, an offering acceptable unto God.
The river of Kishon went away, that the ancient river, the stream of Kishon: O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
Salute all your own selves, and all the saints.
And it was told Saul that David had gone to Keilah, and Saul said, God hath given him into my hand, because he hath shut himself into a city with two bars.
And the Spirit of the spirit answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now now, that every man break away every man from his master.
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of want.
Now therefore we shall go out unto him without the camp, his reproach bearing.
Faithful is great in all, and the bed is perfect: For the fornicators and the adulterer God will judge.
But David sware again, and said, Behold, thy father, that I have loved thee, he said unto himself, Let Jonathan know not this, for it shall be a lamentation unto him; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is only a way betwixt me and death.
And the name of his first-born was Joel, and his name was Abijah, who is judges in Beer-sheba.
And Jonathan answered Saul, saying, David earnestly asked that he would go up from me to Beth-lehem.
Yea, if I am poured out on the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with you all.
And every one stood in his place round about the camp; and all the camp ran, and they cried out as they fled.
as unto whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called:
So he went down, and talked with the woman; and she was weaned with the damsel.
For the blood of oxen and of goats can not take away sins.
For ye know that afterward, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for the place of repentance he found not, though with tears he sought it.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him in Riblah, as Nimrod, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
Now the Philistines gathered all their armies unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped by the well that is in Jezreel.
He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters he sent out of his family, and thirty daughters he brought forth out of his family for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, joined together as one man.
But when the judge was dead, they returned, and did much worse than their fathers had done, following other gods, ministering them, and worshipped them: they left not their own inventions, and the evil way, whereby they were accustomed to walk.
And after he arose, Jair, a Gileadite, and he judged Israel and two years.
And the children of Israel asked unto Jehovah ( for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there in those days.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came to meet him, and said, Wilt thou come in peace?
And this I pray, that your love yet more and abound in full knowledge, and all judgment;
And they said unto Ezekiel, Come and be chief, that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
with knowledge of the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming seasons;
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek for me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, and I will go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, a woman possessed in Endor.
And the child Samuel waxed on, and was in favor both with Jehovah, and also with men.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and spake with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And Ephraim slew not the Canaanite that dwelt in Gezer, but dwelt with him.
For the law hath a shadow of good things to come, not the image of the things; by the same sacrifice which they offer continually every year, can never make the men to be perfect.
And the watchmen saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, Show us now the entering into the city, and we will deal kindly with thee.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel: and when they had joined war, Israel was smitten before the Philistines: and they slew of the host in the field about four thousand men.
And they asked again unto Jehovah, Hath the man yet come hither? And Jehovah said, Behold, he is hid by the vessels.
I beseech you to do this, that I may be restored to you again.
And falling at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, the iniquity; and let now thy servant speak in thine ear, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And it came to pass, when he had ended speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And the people came to Beth-el, and sat there until the evening before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept sore.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Why hast thou not answered me to-day? if the sin be in me or in Jonathan my son, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give the Urim, and if it be in thy people Israel, make a Thummim. And as for the judgment of Jehovah, Saul and Jonathan watched.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field; and he looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city. And he rose up against them, and smote them.
These one of Sisera looked out at the window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarrieth the net of his chariots?
that ye be not carnal, but as imitators of them that through faith and patience have been heir of the promises.
And the peace of God, which is exceeding perfect, shall keep your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
And after him Abdon the son of Jephunneh, the Pirathonite, was the judge of Israel.
But if thou be afraid to go down, go with thy loins, and goest down thy servant unto the camp.
But all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to profane his own part, the make, and the rent, and the sickle.
For this child did I pray, and Jehovah hath given me my prayer, which I asked of him.
And they killed the bullock, and brought in the lad unto Elisabeth.
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wives, which they had saved of the women of Jabesh-gilead: but yet they did not suffice them.
And Sheva the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor; and he the son of a woman, a harlot; and Gilead begat thah,
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
Much riches have counted the reproach of Christ than the treasures in Egypt: for he hath visited the reward of reward.
And Laban passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
And Saul said, Draw near hither, all ye princes of the people, and know and see wherein this sin is this day.
Thou hast put all things under his feet. For in that he hath subjected all things to him, he hath not left nothing that is not subject to him: but now we see not all things subject to him.
And he brought him down, and, behold, they were spread over the whole land, eating and drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Since therefore the children partake of blood and flesh, he also in like manner took part in the same, that through death he might annul him that hath the power of death, which is, the devil.
And it came to pass, when the time came, that Hanun conceived, and bare a son; and she called him Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And all Midian, and Amalek, and the children of the east were gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And when she saw that she had seen this, she sent unto the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up now this once; for now he hath opened his heart unto me. And they went up, and took the money which they had promised.
to them that were in Beth-el, and to them that dwelt in the south, and to them that were in Jattir,
And the old man said unto him, Peace be with thee: I will prepare all things that are needful: only, I beseech thee, tarry not in the street.
nor by blood of goats and oxen, but by his own blood, hath entered in once into the most holy things, having found an everlasting redemption.
For unto the law, according to the law, according to the law, and apart from the blood of blood there is no forgiveness.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought out your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
Let not my lord, I beseech thee, look upon this man of Belial the Baptist; for as his name is, so is he; so is the name of Nabal, and folly is with him: but I thy servant saw not the young men of my lord whom thou didst send.
each of you desire not for your own profit, but also one of you for the sake of others.
Now there was a man in the Hebrew, whose work was in Carmel; and he was a great man, and had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats, and he did cut the wool of his sheep in Carmel.
For men shall swear by one greater than themselves; and a oath shall be the end of all their controversy.
and said, This will be the king's right, that shall reign over you: he shall take thy sons, and put them in his chariot, and he shall make them his horsemen, and his running footmen, to run before his chariots;
And God returned unto the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil they had done: and Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth fell upon them.
And Jesse made seven sons pass before Samuel; and Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen any of these.
And God hath given into thy hands the princes of Midian Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of thee? Then their anger was moved toward him, when he had said.
And all the children of Israel rose up out of the places where they were, set their army in battle array, in the place that is called Baal. And the ambush which were about the city began by little and little,
And the people of Israel encouraged themselves, and set their battle in array in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and all the cities, and the cattle, and all that they found; and all the cities which they found they set upon fire.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come, and reign over us.
And the men of Israel and Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley and the gates of Ekron: and the Philistines fell down on the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath, and to Ekron, and to Ekron.
I repented that I caused Saul to reign for king: for he hath turned back from me, and had not done my words. And he was wroth with Samuel, and he cried unto Jehovah all the night.
And might deliver them, who through the fear of death were all their days subject to bondage.
Now the sons of Belial were the sons of Belial: they knew not Jehovah.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she made haste, and slew it; and taking meal knead it, and baked unleavened bread,
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him a king.
And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father? therefore it was a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For he that entered into his rest, he also hath rest from his works, as God did of his own.
And Micaiah said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Let loose of me, and suffer me to feel the pillars upon which the house standeth, that I may lean upon them.
For if the former had been without, there would not be a place for a second time.
And his father in law, the damsel's father, hid him; and he abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
For in that he suffered, being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And Jonathan said, Far be far from thee: for if I should know that evil is determined to my father against thee, I could do no more than thee.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah hath done for my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and hath appointed you as a prince over Israel,
And Saul built an shekel unto Jehovah; and he began to build altars to Jehovah.
And Jesse called for Abinadab, and brought him before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
Ye shall do all things without murmuring and temptations.
The bow of mighty men are broken; But they that stumble with strength are with strength.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
And as a pillar of smoke rose up from the city; and Benjamin looked, and saw that the city was taken, and that the flame ascended on high.
And one of the young men answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Gilonite, who is skilful in playing; and he is a mighty man, and a man of war, and skilful in speech, and of good face, and Jehovah is with him.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter as wife to the man that overcometh Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it.
I exhort, as unknown as, and entreat Timothy, that they might be of the same mind in the Lord.
Jehovah executeth death and life: He sendeth messengers to Sheol, and lifteth them up.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they asked the wife of the wife, saying, Buy thy husband, that he may tell us the riddle, lest we burn thee, and thy father's house with fire. Hast thou called us to destroy us? is not so?
Now all Midian, and Amalek, and the east, gathered together, and passed over the Jordan, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And Jonathan gave Saul his father a good account of David, and said unto him, Let not the king trespass against his servant, against David; for he hath done thee no wrong, and all his doings have found thee good.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let every man go into his city.
For every one that liveth on milk knoweth not in the word of righteousness; for he is a babe.
And his lord said unto him, We will not turn aside to the city of strangers, which are not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.
And he will appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties; and he will set them to hear his land, and to reap his harvest, and to make his weapons of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
Let us offer up a sacrifice of praise unto God continually, that is, the fruit of the lips which proclaim unto his name.
Thy servants also and thy maid-servants, and thy young men, and thy asses, shall he take away, and put them to his work.
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Jonathan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
If therefore the Levites were full of the priesthood, for the people under it had received the law, what need of need, according to the ordinance of Melchizedek, to rise up, and not to be called according to the order of Aaron?
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and fight against the Canaanites, that I may go with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
And the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service of the service of blood in like manner he did sprinkle.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and took it, then I will give him Achsah my daughter for a wife.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: even the same things to write unto you, to me indeed is not able to be feared, and for you sure.
And it came to pass at the end of the days, that Hanun conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel: for I asked him from Jehovah.
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, as the feast of a king: and the heart of the spirit of the spirit was merry within him, because he was very drunken: therefore she told him nothing, until the morning light.
And when the transgressors and the Anakim fled, he pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
And I will make known unto thee the captain of Jabin, and his chariots, and his bands, and come against thee at the river of Kishon; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And Israel was very weak from the presence of Midian; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
And Jonathan spake well about David his father Saul, and said unto him, The king should not sin against his servant David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his service is very good.
It is even right for me to think this way for all of you, because I have ye in my heart, because I have in my bosom, that also in my bonds, and in the defense, and in the good news of the gospel, ye all partake with me of grace.
And they turned aside from their way, and came into the house of the damsel's house, the house of Micah, and said unto him, Is it well with thee?
Let us draw near with a true heart in full confidence of faith; having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies wash with pure water.
Whosoever did set in nought the law of Moses apart from compassion, by two or three witnesses shall die.
And all the children of Israel and all the people went up, and came to Beth-el, and wept; and they sat there before Jehovah, and fasted on that day until evening; and they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
and ye shall hear what they say; and after that ye shall have courage, and go down against the camp. And he went down with Potiphar his servant unto the posts of the guard that were in the camp.
And Ezekiel made a vow unto Jehovah; and he said, If thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hand,
who by faith did subdue the kingdoms, and wrought righteousness, and received promises, stopped the mouth of lions;
But such are many that have become priests; for they are hindered by death.
And the meal-offering took up the thigh, and that which was on it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, that which is kept, set it before thyself, and eat; for for the appointed time hath it been kept for thee: for I said, I have called the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
And the watchmen of Saul looked out from Geba in the land of Benjamin, and saw all the host that flowed away, and ran thither and thither.
But David said unto Abishai, Do not destroy him: for he that stretched out his hand against the anointed of Jehovah, and was perfect?
There remaineth therefore a rest unto the people of God.
And it came to pass, when these words were about the ark of God, that stood down down his seat by the gate of the gate into the city, and fell upon the ground, and smote his neck, and smote him, because he was an old man and great weight.
And David went from thence, and fled into the cave of Adullam. And when his brethren and all his father's house heard of it, they went down to him there.
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Gilonite, skilful in playing, and a mighty mighty man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a skilful man, and Jehovah is with him.
And he said unto her, What form is he? And she said, A old man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And the Philistines took him, and took out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with two chains of brass; and he was grinding in the prison.
And it came to pass, when David talked with Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was joined with David's soul, and David became as his own life.
and Nob, the city of the priests, he hath smitten by the edge of the sword, from man even unto woman, from the young child even unto the suckling, and the ox, and the ass, and the sheep, by the edge of the sword.
And it came to pass at the time when she gave the daughter of Saul Saul to David, that she was given to wife the wife to wife.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: I pray, I pray thee, how mine eyes have fainted, because I have tasted a little of this honey.
I have sent him the more diligently, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the more sad.
I will not cast out from among them any of the nations, which Joshua died in this land;
not as though I have attained now, or are now perfect; but I follow after, if I may by any means forbear, in which I am taken with Jesus.
And Jonathan the son of Saul, the son of Saul, said unto the young man that was with him, looking after his arms, and come, and let us go over to the camp, and there he spake nothing to his father.
Moreover, my father, behold, see the skirt of your robe in my hand; for in that I have cut off the skirt of your robe, and slew thee not, know and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee, though thou hunt for my life to take it.
And he brought down the people to the water; and Jehovah said to the plague, Every one that smiteth the water with his tongue, as a dog bloweth, him shalt thou set alone; likewise every one that boweth down on his knees to drink.
Wherefore thus saith the Holy Spirit, This day if ye hear his voice,
In like manner Christ took not himself the glory of being made the high priest, but was delivered by him that said, Thou art my Son, this day I have commanded thee:
And Abimelech dwelt at Bene-jaakan: and Shobach drove out his brethren and his brethren, that they might not dwell in Shechem.
And Samuel called the people unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And he shall take your fields, your vineyards, and your Asherim, and your best, and give them unto his servants.
At the voice of them that divide the sheep among the watering-places, there shall they declare the righteous acts of Jehovah, even the works of his mighty men in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Call now the book, and see that is gone from us. And they called the roll, and found that Jonathan and his armorbearer were not present.
And Saul said unto Samuel, But I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone away the way which Jehovah hath sent me, and have brought the king of Amalek king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekite.
For this is the covenant which I will make unto the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give my statutes into their heart, and I will write them in their heart; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Let every man be numbered, and let us see that is gone from us. And when they were numbered, it was found that Jonathan and his servant were not there.
And on the third day I will send arrows from my bow upon the side of it, as it is a mark.
And the servant again answered Saul, and said, Behold, I have in my hand a shekel of silver: I will give it unto the man of God, that he may tell us our way.
And he said unto all Israel, Be thou on one side, and I am with Jonathan my son. And the people answered Saul, Do what seems good in thine eyes.
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites, until the day of the captivity of the land.
And they sent and gathered all the nobles of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about there.
So David went into a secret place in the field: and when the moon came, the king stood at the feast.
The watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude melted and scattered.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul that day, that day, that day, shut before Jehovah; and his name was Naamah, an Edomite, the chief of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
And it came to pass after this, that he loved a woman in the valley of feasting, and her name was named.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, to slay David.
through faith do we understand the world for ever to have been prepared by the word of God, in regard to the things that were seen not coming out of things.
In a very little while he that cometh shall come, and shall not wait.
But the servant said unto him, See now, in this city there is a man of God, who is highly honourable, and all that he saith is true: let us go there now; it may be that he will tell us our journey.
And some of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man that is come up, for he is come up to defy Israel; and the man that shall kill him, the king will increase with great riches, and shall give him his daughter, and will make his father's house free from tribute in Israel.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, come before thee: for this day he cometh into the city; for the people shall be a sacrifice in a high place.
And this man went up out of his city every year, to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Bela, Gibeath and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath heard for certain that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and put them upon this rock, and pour it upon it. And he did so.
So David hid himself in the field; and when the moon had come, the king sat down to eat bread.
Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, In the day of temptation in the wilderness;
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what ye have to do.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son reign over you: Jehovah will rule over you.
And Adoni-zedek fled, and pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his fingers and his toes.
And Achan the son said unto the lad that took him by the hand, Let me set my hand upon the pillars, that I may set my back against them.
For we that believed enter into rest, as he hath said, As I sware in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest. And yet these works were accomplished from the foundation of the world.
And Saul said, God do so also, and more also; thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
And Saul said, Say unto David, The king will no dowry but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought he would make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
When I and all that are with me blow on the trumpet, ye shall blow the trumpets, and compass the camp; and ye shall say, To Jehovah, and to be done.
And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah, until thou comest to Shur, which is over against Egypt.
And he sent, and brought him in. And he had red eyes, and fair eyes, and looked upon. And Jehovah said, Come, and anoint him, for this is he.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, Stand, I pray thee, and let us prepare a kid for thee.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he was before them.
but if they say, Come up to us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand: and this shall be the sign to us.
And when the time came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid in the hill of the Hebrews, that is in the wilderness?
And the sons of Belial said, How should this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no offering; But he was as one deaf.
And the children of Belial said, What man shall save us? and they despised him, and brought not unto him a present, and he is as deaf.
And his armorbearer said, Do all that is in thine heart, that thou shalt do: I am with thee all the way.
And they said, Wherefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath it done this day in Israel, that one tribe is lacking from Israel?
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance, to possess the land.
Let our lord now speak; thy servants are before thee: they shall seek out a man, a skilful well upon a harp; and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And I will make him know that I am about to judge his house for ever, because of the iniquity which he knew: for his children were cursed upon themselves, but he did not rebuke them.
And Saul said, I have sinned, return, my son David; for I will no more do thee harm: for my life hath been precious in thy sight this day: for it is seen that I have done foolishly, and in very many things.
And it fell to pass, that year the children of Israel oppressed the children of Israel under the other side of the children of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites that is in Gilead, and were oppressed.
This is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall destroy every man, and every woman that lieth with a man.
Who can have compassion on them that are ignorant and that erred, Because he also is persecuted with weakness.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli; and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; and there was no vision.
And he left Egypt by faith, not fearing the king's wrath: for he was content, as seeing him that escapeth.
Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
And this shall ye observe: every male, and all the women that have known men, shall ye kill; but ye shall save the virgins.
Moreover, that all generations was gathered unto their fathers, and another generation increased after them that knew not Jehovah, nor the work that he had done for Israel.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, David my son? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
For a covenant is of power after men are dead; otherwise it is of no strength at all, while the city is living.
And it came to pass, when the people were come into the camp, that the elders of Israel said, Why hath Jehovah smitten us this day before the Philistines? let us get the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh, and bring it unto us, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And it arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that told the woman? And he said, I am.
And he bowed down from her feet, and fell, and lay down; And between her feet he bowed down, and fell; and where he worshipped, there he fell, and prevailed.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who, being without sin, offered himself unto God by the Holy Spirit, cleanse thy hearts from dead works to serve the living God?
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was very troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy servant hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou hast spoken unto me.
And David said unto Abiathar the son of Nethaniah, Come hither unto me with the ephod. And Abiathar took the ephod unto David.
And his servants told David these words, and the thing pleased David's eyes, to be son-in-law unto the king; and the days were not full.
Turn not aside to vain things that can not profit or deliver; for they are vain.
For the word of God is living and effectual, and more murderers than any two edged sword; and touching the course of the soul and the spirit, of the joints and the marrow, and is a discerning of the thoughts and the thoughts of the heart.
And Araunah said, I saw the son of Jesse, and said, I saw the son of Jesse to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
So a sabbath rest remaineth for the people of God.
And David said unto the Philistines, Come unto me with a sword, with a spear, and with a javelin; but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the hosts of Israel, whom thou hast reproached.
And it came to pass, that all that fell that day of Benjamin were five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword: all these were men of valor.
that ye may be blameless and simple, the sons of God without rebuke, in the midst of a perverse and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world;
They that were full have hired themselves for bread; and the hungry are no more; yea, the barren beareth seven, and she that hath many children waxed feeble.
Be strong, and quit yourselves like men, O Philistines, that ye may not be bondmen unto the Hebrews, as they have been unto you; quit yourselves like men, and fight.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other apparel, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, I pray thee, I pray thee, by the familiar spirit, and bring me up to whomsoever I shall call unto thee.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things that should be utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And Deborah smote and Bered the son of meeting, in that day, saying,
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched: and David saw the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host. And Saul lay in the trench, and the people encamped round about him.
And his mother did make for him a small robe, and take it unto him year by year, when she came up with her husband to offer the burnt-offering.
And when he had, he gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the chief of the nations unto the river of Kishon.
God, knowing of us good for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.
And Saul said, I have sinned: turn back, my son David; for I will do no more evil than thee, because my soul hath been precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done foolishly, and have erred very greatly.
Thou shalt not speak so exceedingly proudly; Let not pride come out of thy mouth: For Jehovah is a God of knowledge; And by him shall be weighed.
And he said, Wherefore is my lord pursuing after his servant? for what have I done? and what evil is in my hand?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, It is a old man, that cometh up with a garment. And Saul saw that it was Samuel, and he bowed down with his face toward the ground.
But the children of Israel add new sins to their old men, did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served idols, Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and of Sidon, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines; and they left Jehovah, and served him not.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there was not such a thing heretofore.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his children judges over Israel.
And Samuel did what Jehovah said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came trembling to meet him, and said, Wilt thou come in peace?
And the Philistines were subdued, and came not into the border of Israel any more: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubles thee.
Shall I take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have slain for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not whence they be?
And Jehovah appeared again at Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself unto Samuel at Shiloh, according to the word of Jehovah. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel.
And they came down from the high place into the city, and talked with Saul upon the roof.
And it came to pass, when David returned from smiting the Philistines, that Abner took him, and brought him before Saul, and the head of the Philistines was in his hand.
Then build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this high place, in the way, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
For if he were on the earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing the priests that offer the gifts according to the law;
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: I have delivered the land into his hand.
And she heard the noise of the crying, and said, What is the noise of this uproar? And the man came quickly, and told Eli.
And Abimelech pursued him, and fled before him; and many fell slain to the door of the gate.
So David and his men came into the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek for me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.
And Israel and the Philistines set rank to meet rank.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we will not put thee to death. And they bound him with two rough cords, and brought him up from the cliff.
Grace be with you all.
And we perceived that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
Then Harbonah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Caleb. And there were no vain men gathered to prove Libnah, and they were cast up conquering.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in there, and took the graven image, the ephod, the ephod, and the molten image; and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
As unto the man Micah, he hath a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and he put the hand of one of his sons, and he was to him for a priest.
Take heed to know all the secret places where he covereth, and be certain to return unto me, and I will go with thee; and I will go with thee; and if he be anywhere in the land, I will gather him among all the families of Judah.
And Jonathan said unto David, O Lord, the God of Israel, if I shall uncover my father's heart to morrow or the next day, and there be any good for David, and I will not send straightway unto thee, and make it known unto thee;
And I brought you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that hated thee, and I cast them out from before thee, and delivered you their land.
And all Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was established a prophet of Jehovah.
Now his parents knew not that the thing was done by the Lord, and that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the priest's custom was with the people: and when any man brought a sacrifice, even as the boil was boiling, the servant of the priest shall eat his head in his hand.
And Saul commanded all the people to go down to fight against the Reubenites, and to besiege David, and to his men.
And he said unto Saul, Why dost thou hear the words of men that say David, seeking thee thy hurt?
according to all the works which they have done from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And the servants of Saul spoke in the ears of David these words. And David said, Is it a light in thine eyes to be a son-in-law to the king? and I am a poor man, and despised?
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knew, because his children brought a curse on themselves, and he did not withhold them.
And he joined the children of Ammon, and Amalek; and he went and destroyed Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
And as Samuel turned about to go, he took hold of the skirts of his robe, and brake it.
looking to see, that no man is worthy of you in his conversation cometh short of the grace of God; lest ye fear that there might be a snare unto you, and that some of you may be made unclean by it;
for he was yet in the body of his father, when Melchizedek met him.
And I have made him to ask for Jehovah, all the days that he hath lived, he shall ask for Jehovah. And he bowed himself before Jehovah.
And it came to pass after that the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
And they took their daughters as wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
In the time long ago shall be sorrowful, and not joy; but after that they that have been taught of it, it shall obtain the increase of righteousness.
And Abimelech was prince over Israel three years.
And David arose, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And Saul looked behind him, and David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
that ye may be blameless and blameless, the children of God, perfect in the midst of a generation that is perverse and perverse, among whom ye are sober in the world;
For he hath delivered up the nobles of Israel: for a people shall sacrifice themselves to bless Jehovah.
And he said, Abide with me, and be thou unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee every year ten pieces of silver, and a double ornament of clothing, and thy food.
And the children of Israel said, Who is he that hath not come up in the congregation out of all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah? for the great oath was of him that came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And all that day Abimelech fought against the city; and he took it, and slew the people that were therein, and brake the city, and covered it with salt.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, I beseech thee, let us hold thee, and let us prepare a kid of the goats for thee.
Then he said, Behold, I will do, O God, thy will. He shall take away the first that he might establish the second.
For the tabernacle was prepared, the first, in which was the candlestick, and the table, and the bread of the presence, which is called, Holy.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And David said to Abishai the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, Who shall go down with me unto Saul's tents? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And when I saw that thou didst not save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then have ye come up to me this day to fight against me?
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done unto me: let me go from me two months, and I will go, and go down upon the hills; and I will weep for my tokens, I and my friends.
And Samuel came to Saul. And Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah! I have performed the word of Jehovah.
Take heed to nothing; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known unto God.
But without faith it is not able to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a gift of them that diligently seek him.
So Menahem went in, and boiled a young goat, and made unleavened bread of fine flour; and put the flesh in a basket, and the broth of the flesh into a pot, he carried all under the oak, and presented him.
And she blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt that is lent unto Jehovah. And they went to their own house.
And he said unto her, How long wilt thou, be drunken? Fch a little wine, whereof thou hast taken too much.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and took the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill, and hallowed Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For it is impossible for them that were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit.
And he said unto the lad that led his steps, Suffer me to touch the pillars that hold the whole house, and let me lean upon them, and rest a little.
And God hearkened unto the voice of man: and the angel of God came again to the woman while she sat in the field; but she herself was not with her husband.
And David said unto Ahijah, If now I have found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some city, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant abide in the royal city with thee?
And he said unto God, Let not thine anger burn against me, and I will speak this time: I will prove thee only this time with the fleece of the fleece: let there be a drought upon the fleece alone, and let there be dew upon all the earth.
And he did valiantly, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hand of their spoilers.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to Beth-el, and inquired of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah first.
And now, let not my blood fall unto the earth far from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come forth to seek a lie, as when they hunt a partridge upon the mountains.
and thought to him that hated sinners against himself, that ye be not weary and faint-hearted.
And now thy kingdom shall not stand, that Jehovah hath sought himself a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah commanded him to be ruler over his people: for thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
Wherefore, as saith the Holy Spirit, To-day if ye will hear his voice,
And the man shall fill his hand, and the young man with him, saying,
And in the field they saw an Egyptian, whom they took unto David, and gave him bread, and he ate bread, and gave him water to drink.
Now therefore, what is under thine hand? give me, I pray thee, five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatsoever is to be.
And his life was uncovered, to save you out of the hand of Midian,
and he took the women captive that were in it, both great and small: they had put none to death; but they carried them off, and went on their way.
And Saul said unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was afraid: therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bottle, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the stronghold, and set the hand on fire upon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
Understand not thy servant a wicked woman; For I have been speaking out of the abundance of my complaint and my provocation.
The same night said Jehovah unto him, Take ten men of thy servants, and an ox seven years old, and after the altar of Baal that is thy father's, and cut down the holy tree by the side thereof,
And he called unto him all his chariot, even all that were with him, even all nine hundred chariots, and all the host that was with him from the ascent of the brook of Kishon.
Then the men of Israel turned back, and the men of Benjamin marvelled; for they saw that calamity was come upon them.
that by two unbelief, in which it was impossible that God should lie, we might have a strong comfort, who fled for refuge to lay hold on hope before us,
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice and wept.
So Saul, putting on raiment, so that he might not be seen to be the king, and took two men with him, and went to the woman by night: and he said, Now with the help of the Spirit which thou hast, call thou the man whose name I will give thee.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child did minister unto Jehovah before Naaman the priest.
Arise, and let us go up unto them; for we have seen the land that is very rich and fruitful: leave not, be faint; let us go and possess it, there shall be no hurt.
And Saul said unto him, Why have thou conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse, by thy giving unto him bread and a sword, and to inquire for him in God, to rise up against me, to lie in wait, as this day?
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hands; and they smote ten thousand of them in flatteries.
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one was the king's sons.
( To whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.)
And Samuel died; and all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his city; and Saul turned aside them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards out of the land.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came to Baal-perazim, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day, and the battle was over to Beth-Aven.
And Jehovah set up judges, and they save them from the hand of their spoilers.
For they and their cattle come up with their tents; they came in as the abundance of the locust for multitude, and of them, and of their cattle; and they came into the land to destroy it.
And Saul called unto the host, and numbered them at Ahaz, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites to fight against them?
The bow of the mighty is overcome, And the weak are girded with strength.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me, that thou wouldest send away mine enemy, and he is escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Send me away: why should I kill thee?
According to my patience and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, even as always; so now the Christ also shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray you, that mine eyes are bright, because I have tasted a little of this honey.
In these last days spake unto us in a Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom he hath made the world eternal.
And the service of the sanctuary, and the holy tabernacle, which Jehovah hath encamped, and not man.
For in the power of this the elders have received testimony.
For we are the circumcision, that worship God, and boast in Jesus Christ, and have no faith in the flesh:
And he found a new jaws of an ass; and he went down, and took it, and slew one thousand men with it.
But thou didst well that thou didst enlarge in my affliction.
For we are not here a living city, but we seek the coming.
And the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah: for he had nine hundred iron chariots, and he was very sore of twenty years unto the children of Israel.
And when he saw that he was a angel of Jehovah, and said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! for that I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
Now the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and all the people of the east, spread the valley as grasshoppers; and their camels were as the sand by the sea-shore, without number.
So Saul took up the people, and numbered them, even two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Boaz.
And he said unto her, If I shall be bound with new cords, that were not in work, I shall be weak and other men.
A man of God came to Naaman, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I reveal myself to thy father's house, when they were in Egypt in bondage unto Pharaoh's house?
And he hath waited thence from that time, until all that are against him shall have a footstool for his feet.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he drove out the inhabitants of the mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And Jehovah was wroth with Israel, and delivered them into the hand of meeting, king of Paddan-aram, and served him eight years.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to get his ploughportion, and his hoz-hock, and his axe, and his sickle.
Let not my lord the king, I pray thee, consider this evil man of Nabal; for as for his name, he is a fool, and folly is with him: but I thy servant saw not thy servants, my lord, whom thou sentest.
and above it were the cherubim of the glory of the glory of the mercy seat; whereof it is not now the time to speak in exactly.
waiting diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble thee, and thereby much be defiled;
unto whom also Abraham divided a tenth part of all, ( being first,) by interpretation, king of righteousness, and then king of Salem, which is king of peace;
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked the counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
For God worketh in you both to do and to do of his good pleasure.
And Baal-hanan's wife took a nail, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and smote the nail into his temples, and it was slain through the ground; for he was in a deep sleep; so he fainted, and died.
God also bare, with signs and wonders, and various powers, and the power of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
But what things were needful to me, I was counted as Christ's sake.
And Jonathan cried again after the lad, saying, Haste quickly, stand not. And Jonathan's servant gathered the arrows, and brought them to his master.
But they slew Moab at that time, about ten thousand, all strong men, and all that were left, none of them could escape.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not say anything about another day.
We can say that through Abraham the Levite, who receiveth tithes, hath paid tithes;
And many of the brethren in the Lord increased by my bands, being greatly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
Blessed be the women of women: The wife of Elihu is called, And she is blessed in her tent.
But thou shalt not forget to do good and to receive; for God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with sticks? Then the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And he said unto him, When thy word shall come to pass, what wilt thou that the child should do? or from what shall he keep himself?
And he said unto them, What have I now equal with you? is not the gleanings of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
And David said, What have I now done? is there not a cause?
And as a covering shalt thou wallow them up, and they shall be changed; but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
And after him, Elon, a conspiracy, Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Sheva the son went out, and held the two pillars upon which the house was stopped, and he leaned upon them, one on his right hand, and one on his left.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion that I have given thee, whereof I said unto thee, Ye shall be with thee.
And he said, I have sinned: honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
But now hath he obtained a more excellent service, by how much also he is the mediator of a good covenant, which was established for good promises.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
And Gezer went out before the men of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And Gath the son of Hassenuah went out, and stood at the door of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, out of the ambush.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said to Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
Jehovah maketh the poor, and maketh rich; He bringeth low and lifted up.
And Jair died, and was buried in the tomb.
But Adoni-zedek fled; and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and thy fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered together their armies for war to fight against Israel. And Abimelech said unto David, Know thou certainly that thou shalt go out with me into the camp, thou and thy men.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with you in this matter, that all thine eyes are cast out, that I may make it a reproach to all Israel.
And there was a altar, and there was an altar to Jehovah; and he called it, Jehovah is peace. Unto this day it is still in Ophrah, of the Herness.
Now David the son of this Shunammite the son of Pekah Judah, whose name was Jesse, he had eight sons, and the man in the days of Saul had become old among men.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Gilonite, and stood there; and there was a great stone there; and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered up the cattle for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
I know both to be brought low, and I know how to abound: in every one, and in all things I am taught, both to be full, and to be hungry; both to abound, and to suffer need.
And the people came to Beth-el, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept bitterly.
For this cause also he is able to save them that draw near to God by him, because he always liveth, to make supplication for him.
so that we desire that ye may all set the same lofty hope unto the end:
And he went up from thence Penuel, and spake unto them thus: and the men of Peniel answered him as the men of Succoth answered.
And they called that place the name of the Name, and offered burnt-offerings there to Jehovah.
By him therefore let us offer sacrifice of praise continually unto God, That is, fruit of lips, that confess his name.
far from the noise of archers, in the places of bringing water, there they shall set out the righteous of Jehovah, the acts of his rule in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jaws out of his hand, and called that place a troop.
Therefore, holy brethren, elect chosen in heaven, think unto Jesus the ambassador and the high priest of our faith;
But I rejoiced in the Lord exceedingly, that now ye have nourished your care for me; for whom ye thought, but ye had no occasion to speak it.
And the lad knew not anything; but Jonathan and David knew the word.
And when they came there into the mountain, behold, there met him a band of prophets; and the Spirit of God came exceedingly upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Imri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Malchijah, the son of a Benjamite, a very rich man.
And Sheva the Gileadite was a great man of war; he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead was his father.
And Ephraim drove not out the Canaanites in Gezer; and the Canaanites dwelt in the midst of Gezer.
And Saul said unto his servants, Get me a woman that hath borne of a spirit, that I may go to her and fetch it. And his servants said unto him, There is such a woman at Endor.
And Jehovah called Samuel. And he answered, Here am I.
And Elon came to his death, and dwelt in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, the priest of God, who met Abraham, returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him,
Rejoice in the Lord always: Again I will say, Rejoice.
But David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring news to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell us, saying, So did David; and so shall be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the land of the Philistines.
So David smote the Philistines with his garments, and with a stone, and smote the Philistines, and slew him: but David had no sword in his hand.
The bow of the mighty are broken; And they that stumble are girded with strength.
But we, beloved, we are persuaded of good things for you, and that which is with salvation, even though we speak thus.
And they set up for themselves the image which Micah had made, and it was all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said to Bidkar the wife, Give thy husband, that he tell us the riddle, lest we burn thee, and the house of thy father with fire; to possess us, ye have called us for us? is it not?
And there stood six hundred men of the children of Dan, armed with weapons of war, and stood at the door of the gate.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the Lord, when they were attacked.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Have I not saved of the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And they said, We will surely give. And they spread out the garment, and cast there every man the ring of his prey.
Did I begin to inquire of the Lord for him? far be this from me: let not the king defend such a matter against his servant, or any one in all my father's house: for thy servant knew nothing of this matter, either little or great.
And the sum of the things said: We have such a high priest, who sat at the right hand of the throne of the greatness of heaven;
but they that preach Christ in a spirit of race, not of their hearts; but with reason of giving me sorrow in my prison.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that have oppressed thee.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will deliver thee, I will deliver thee with the three hundred men of waters, and I will give Midian into thy hand; and let the other people go every man to his own place.
And when Saul heard that David was revealed, and the men that were with him, ( now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood about him);
Now David was the son of that Ephrath, of Beth-lehem Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man was an old old man in the days of Saul.
And he said, What is the word that he hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, keep it not back from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou wilt withhold anything from me of all the word that he spake unto thee.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem; and they took it, and put it to the sword, and set the city on fire.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah: wherefore they called that place Baal-perazim to this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, the house of my father in Israel, that I am the son-in-law of the king?
So the men of Benjamin did this, and bought wives for themselves, for every one of their number, and plundered them from the dance; then they returned to their inheritance, and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And Jehovah said unto him, Behold, I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites, as if they were one man.
And Saul gave to Michal his daughter wife to David, to wit, the son of Laish, the son of Gallim.
And Jonathan said unto David, Oh that I will do for thee.
( for many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ.
And there came from against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle prevailed: but they knew not that evil came upon them.
So David and his men arose in the night, that they might set forward in the morning, and returned unto the land of the Philistines: and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And Saul said, No man shall be put to death this day: for this day Jehovah hath delivered Israel.
And the man rose up to depart, but his father-in-law urged him; and he lodged there again.
And it came to pass, when they came, when David returned from smiting the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel to sing with joy to Saul the king, with timbrels, with joy, with joy, and with cymbals.
Now in Carchemish and Zalmunna were in Carchemish, and their camp with them, about fifteen thousand, all that were left of the camp of the children of the east; for there had fallen a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
But if not, let a fire come forth from Abimelech, and devour the lords of Shechem and the Millo; and let a fire come out of the lords of Shechem, and from the Millo, and devour Abimelech.
And as they went up the going up to the city, they found young damsels going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt surely do great things, and shalt surely prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his stead.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, choice and comely; and there was not among the children of Israel a keeper of man that were than he; from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
And, behold, when they were running with talking, behold, came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, to Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that were in Geba: and the Philistines heard, and Saul blew with a trumpet through all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
Therefore therefore swear unto me by Jehovah, that thou shalt not destroy my seed after me, nor blot out my name from my father's house.
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, Behold, an evil spirit from God is weary of thee.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites named: and his name was a wife. And his wife was barren, and did not bear.
And he shall take your men-servants, and thy maid-servants, and thy master, young men, and your asses, and put them to his work.
So Saul and his men went to seek; and they told David, and went down the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon: and Saul heard it, and pursued after David the wilderness of Maon.
So the men did so; they took two young kine, and made them ready unto the cart; but they shut up their calves in the stall.
Let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus:
In calling it new, he hath declared the former things to be old: But now that which is of the way, the old is old, and the old is near to be dissolved.
And the trees say unto the fig-tree, Come, thou, reign over us.
not that I seek for a offering, but for the fruit of your glory.
Then said I, Behold, I come; it is written of me in the head of the book, That I should do thy will, O God.
And the old man lifted up his eyes, and saw the man sitting with his handfuls in the street of the city, and said unto him, Whence comest thou? and whither goest thou?
And I saw that thou art not a saviour, and I put my life in my hand, and passed over unto the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore have ye come up unto me this day to fight against me?
And Agag king of Amalek overtook Rahab, and cursed all the people by the edge of the sword.
Now Elisabeth was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten before us as at the beginning. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and let us go out of the city into the highways.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, On this will I make it with you, that all thine right eyes be swift: I will make this reproach all Israel.
And the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant; and his father-in-law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold now, the day draweth toward eventide, I pray you, the day is ready; behold, the day is prolonged, and let thy heart be merry; and to-morrow get thee early on your way, that thou mayest go to thy tent.
And ye have knowledge, that when I was manifested first, that when I departed from Macedonia, I have escaped no church, not received unto the saints, but ye only.
And David said, Hast thou here at hand a spear, or a sword? for I brought not my own sword, nor my weapon with me, for the king's business required.
Jehovah hath done unto you, as he hath spoken by me: Jehovah hath torn the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it unto thy neighbor, even unto David.
and Eshton called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and ten thousand men followed him; and Deborah went up with him.
And the people, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and set the battle in array in the place where they set themselves in array the first day.
But the righteous shall live by faith; And if he turn back, my soul hath no delight in him.
begging the reproach of Christ great riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he pleased the reward.
But the angel of Jehovah appeared no more by him, and his wife. Then he knew that he was the angel of the Lord.
Now therefore come down, as thy soul hath desired to come down: and it shall be our business to deliver him into the king's hands.
whose voice then shook the earth; but now he hath spoken, saying, Yet once will I shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.
And we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
And the Philistines gathered together, and came, and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What thing thou hast done unto us, that thou hast not called us when thou goest to fight against the Midianites? And they strove with him sore.
I can do all these things in him that hath strengthened me.
For we dwelt in the south side of the Cherethites, and on Judah, and on the south of Caleb, and encamped with fire.
And the man departed out of the city, out of Beth-lehem Judah, to live where he could find a place, and came into mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And there was a high tower in the midst of the city; and all the men and the women fled thither, and all the men of the city, and they shut behind them, and went up upon the roof of the tower.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled my rest, that I should be brought up? And Saul said, I am in great distress: for the Philistines fought against me, and God was departed from me, and would not hear me, neither by the hand of prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest show me what I shall do.
And their sins and iniquity will I remember no more.
And all Israel heard that Saul had smitten the host of the Philistines, and also that Israel was polluted with the Philistines. And the people gathered themselves together after Saul to Gilgal.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? thou art Saul.
Return therefore, and go in peace, and do not fret the eyes of the princes of the Philistines.
And the Gaserpent were told, saying, There is a son here. And they compassed him about, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, Abide ye until the morning, therefore let us kill him.
Concerning the matter which thou hast spoken, behold, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
Wherefore, a kingdom, that can not be moved, may we have grace, through which we should serve God with patience, with fear and fear fear.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went forth both of them into the field.
And the children of Israel served Eglon king of Moab, eighteen years.
Therefore I have sworn unto the house of Ish-bosheth, that the iniquity of the house of Ish-bosheth shall not be cleansed with sacrifice, nor sacrifice for ever.
And they blew three hundred trumpets, and Jehovah set each of every man's sword against his fellow, and against all the host; and the army fled as far as Beth-emek, as far as Beth-emek, unto the border of Abel, to the border of Abel;
Some also for jealousy and strife preach Christ; but some also for good will.
But the angel of Jehovah added not again to be found unto man or to his wife: then then he knew that he was a angel of Jehovah.
Then David said, Shall the men of Keilah give me, and my men up to Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee.
Ye endure for correction, God will judge you unto you for children; for who is the son that begat the father?
curse the land of Canaan, and say the angel of Jehovah, curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to help his mighty men.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and take wives according to their number, out of the singers whom they had taken away; and they went and returned unto their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
and your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-trees, shall he take, and give to his servants.
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth, because his sons made themselves vile, and he did not withhold them.
And the people grieved for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And it came to pass in the day of battle at Michmash, that not a sword or a spear to be found in the hand of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan: only Saul and Jonathan his son had had them.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Tabeel and his brethren have come to Shechem: and, behold, they are armed against you the city.
For as for a covenant, the death of the covenant is eaten,
And he went in, and made ready a kid of the goats, and an ephah of fine flour in unleavened cakes: he put the flesh in a basket, and he put the hire in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and brought it.
Now therefore pardon my sin, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
And when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, thou saidst unto me, No; a king shall reign over us; whereas Jehovah thy God is thy king.
And David said, Behold, the king's spear! let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
Thou didst love righteousness, and hatest iniquity; Because of this he anointed thee, O God, thy God, With oil of joy above thy fellows.
So Hanun rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. And there the priest sat on a throne by a post of the house of Jehovah.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who saw all the great work Jehovah had done for Israel.
and he put it into the pot, or into the pot, or into the pot, or into the pan; and all that the same thing which the same lieth brought up, the priest took unto himself. Thus did they unto all Israel that came to Shiloh.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah be merciful unto me, that I may do no such thing to my master the anointed of Jehovah, to lay my hand upon him, because he is Jehovah's anointed.
And it came to pass, that Joshua had judged Israel six years. And Abel the Gileadite died, and he was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall bow down, of them that are in heaven, on earth, and under earth:
And Samuel said unto Saul, Say not, I pray thee, hear ye what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say.
And Shema the son, his father and his mother, went down to Timnah, and came unto the vineyards of Enaim: and, behold, a lion's whelp roareth at the congregation.
So Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went every one to his own possession.
Then said he, What did Samuel say unto thee?
But if it bring up thorns and tares, it is of no use, and is ready to be cursed; the only end shall be burned.
Moreover we have had the fathers of our flesh as the judges, and we are afraid: shall we not much rather rather to the Father of spirits, and live?
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and the extortioner; but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Samuel answered Saul, saying, I am the seer, go up before me unto the high place, that ye may eat with me to-day, and I will let thee go in the morning, and tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And it was told the Gaza, saying, A son is come hither. And they compassed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.
For he looked for a city that hath foundations, Whose builder and the maker of God.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.
And I thought lightness, my brother, and fellow-labourer, and fellow-soldier, and thy apostle and servant, to send unto you;
How much shall he be counted worthy of him that the Son of God had trodden on, and the blood of the testament hath counted a common thing, wherein he was sanctified, and the Spirit of grace hath despised?
And they went through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon; but they came not in the border of Moab; for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Let the ephod come hither: for he went before Israel with the ephod at that time.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Consider now, and see that is lacking from us. And when they were numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
And the princes of the Philistines passed by hundreds, and by thousands: and David and his men passed in the hinder part.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, shall be conformed to his death.
And they buried him in the borders of his possession in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill of Gaash.
And with whom was he wroth forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
And they made him a two-edged sword, and a cubit long, which he put on the right side under his robe.
And they came to the end of the camp, which were with him, at the beginning of the camp, at the beginning of the camp, at the beginning of the camp, when they had done the watch, and blew the trumpets, and brake the bottles that were in their hands.
And it came to pass, when the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel strove after Jehovah.
But one of thy family shall not be cut off by my hand, and his eyes shall be darkened, and sorrow shall be in his heart; and all the seed of thy house shall perish by the sword of men.
And Jehovah sent Tiphsah, and Medan, and Gazez, and Samuel, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies round about, and ye dwelt securely.
Is it not this day as this day? I will call unto Jehovah, that he may send thunder and rain; and thou shalt know and see that thy wickedness is great, which thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, to ask for a king.
They were stoned, they were hewn up knives, they were tried, they were slain with the sword; they went about in rams, and in labor; being afflicted, and in pain, and persecuted,
And the woman ran, and told her husband: and she said unto him, Behold, the man that came to me the other day appeared unto me.
And Meonothai pursued after the chariots and the army as far as the colour of Shaashgaz; and all the army of Sisera fell to the edge of the sword; none was left.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And Shema the son went and took three hundred monsters, and took torches, and turned tail to tail, and put a lamp in the midst between the two tails.
that ye can not plow, but be imitators of them that through faith and patience inherit the promises.
So his father went down unto the woman, and repaired the damsel a feast; for so did the young men to do.
And the Philistines gathered all their armies unto Aphek; and Israel encamped by the well that is in Jezreel.
Now therefore, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: if Jehovah have stirred thee up against me, let him accept a offering: but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah: for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and let us fight against the Canaanites, and I will go with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he said unto him, Follow; for thou shalt surely overtake and shalt surely recover.
And he abode seven days, according to the time that Samuel: and Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him.
Assemble yourselves, and be men, O Philistines, that ye should not serve the Hebrews, as they have been servants unto you: be ye men, and fight.
but we see Jesus, who made some little inferior to angels for the sake of death, crowned with glory and honor; that by the grace of God he should taste death for every thing.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Ahijah.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever those that are sanctified.
And the children of Israel put away Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
Behold, I am here, witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I robbed? or whom have I been oppressed? or of whose hand have I received a bribe to blind mine eyes with me? and I will restore it.
O Lord, the God of Israel, why is so great a evil come in thy people, that a tribe should be taken away from among us?
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a adversary to him, and that the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, To-day thou shalt have a son-in-law in the second time.
For I know that it shall fall out to me unto salvation, through your prayer, and in your prayers, and in the power of the Spirit of Jesus Christ:
So Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went out to seek after David, and his men, even upon the very hard rocks, which are the work only to the wild goats.
As it is meet for me to think this for you all, for that I have ye in my heart, and that in my bands, and in the defense, and in the good way, and in the good way of the gospel, ye all partake of my joy.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David: and they gave him bread to eat, and water to drink.
Forasmuch therefore, since we have such a great cloud of witnesses round about us, putting aside every weight and sin, that so long as a snare, let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him. And it came to pass, because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, if he did it by day, that he did it by night.
And the blessed of the women shall be the wife of Eber the Kenite; she shall be blessed above women in the tent.
And the messenger answered, and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines; there is a great slaughter among the people; and thy two sons are dead, and there are set lots and Phinehas, and the ark of God is taken.
We have an altar, wherewith they eat not the tent of meeting;
And the priest said unto the people: When any man offered a offering, the servant of the priest came in, while the flesh was boiled, having in his hand a bullock with three teeth.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he heard these words, and his anger was exceedingly kindled.
And it came to pass, when they came into the land of Zuph, that Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, let us return, lest my father cease over the ass, and take care of us.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every one did that which was right in his eyes.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered up thy enemy into thy hand this day; therefore therefore let me take thee to the ground with the sword one time, and I will not smite him twice.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmas.
to them that were in Beth-el, and to the south, and to them that were in Jether,
And the trees once went forth to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive tree, The same is persuaded over us.
And some out of contention preach Christ not: thinking that they stir up affliction to my bonds.
And it came to pass, that the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he began to judge Israel, that he went out to war; and Jehovah delivered the Midianites king of Mesopotamia into his hand, and smote him.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn and, behold, I am with thee after thy heart.
And he had two wives, the name of one was Anna, and the name of the other district.
And when she was dying, the women that stood by her said, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son. But she answered not, neither did she take it to heart.
Behold, she cried out of the window, and cried out, the mother of Anathoth cried out by the window, Why is his chariot so long? when shall the noise of his wheels be heard?
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests, unto the tribe of Dan unto the day of the captivity of the land.
Some also out of envy and strife; but some also for good shall preach Christ.
And when they were fled, they fled, and passed through the idols, and escaped it to Silla.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, no punishment shall befall thee for this thing.
He took a place by so much better than the angels, And plentifully more excellent than they.
So on that day Jehovah delivered Israel, and the battle was in Beth-aven.
For by it the elders received a good report.
This will we do, if God suffer.
And he returned after a manner to marry her; and he turned aside to see the lion's carcases; and there was a swarm of wild honey, like bees in the belly of the lion, and honey.
And when the lad came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow away beyond thee?
It is necessary therefore the pattern of the things that are in heaven to be cleansed with these, and the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
and are fallen away; to be renewed again to repentance, and again more than the Son of God, and making him a reproach.
And now, my lord, the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, in that Jehovah hath withholden thee from coming in with blood, and to save thy hand unto thee; now let thine enemies be as Nabal, even those that seek evil unto my lord.
Now therefore, I pray thee, bear my sin, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
And Samuel caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent, and it shall be, if any man cometh in, and ask thee, and said, Is there a man here? that thou saidst, There is not.
And David asked him, To whom do thou? Where art thou from? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant unto an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days were I sick.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-mite, and stood down there by a great stone: and they cut up the wood of the cart a burnt-offering of the cattle unto Jehovah.
And the captains of the Philistines went out to battle, and as oft as they went out, David succeeded more than all the servants of Saul; and his name was very esteemed.
And an angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Sela, and said, I made thee to go up out of Egypt, and bring thee unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will not break my covenant with you.
And it came to pass, when he knew that he was an angel of the Lord, saying, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for I have seen a angel of the Lord face upon me.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye found not anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
And it came to pass, when the angel of the Lord spake unto them, that the angel of Jehovah spake unto all the children of Israel, saying, The people shouted and wept.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and cattle, the chief of the devoted things, to sacrifice unto Jehovah your God in Gilgal.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye are alive; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice.
And the Syrians gave him to Ziklag that day: and, behold, he is the kings of Judah unto this day.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath given into our hand our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, even him that multiplied our slain.
The north of the north was over against Michmash; and the other toward the south was over against Geba.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath taken away the kingdom of Israel from thee this day by force, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine good men than thee.
And Saul said, Go on the midst of the people, and say unto them, Let every man come here to me with his ox and his sheep, and slay them here, and eat his meal: do not sin against Jehovah by taking the blood with the flesh. So all the people took their cattle with them that night, and slew them there.
Howbeit that we have now attained, let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves up against Gibeah before.
And God hath given into thy hand the princes of Midian and Oreb and Zeeb: what could I compare with thee? And their anger was moved against him, when he said.
And these went into Micah's house, and fetched the graven image, the ephod, and the images, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What do ye?
For the priesthood being changed, there is a change of necessity in the law.
For our freedom is in heaven, from where we also hope for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hanun, and the name of the other mite: and the name of the children of Zelophehad had children; but Hanun had no children.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, Our sin is great against thee; for we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baalim.
So the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who sitteth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Bela, Gibeath and Phinehas, were there by the ark of the covenant of God.
who hath no necessity daily, as the chief priests, first for his own sins to offer sacrifice for the men of the people: for this he did once, having offered himself.
Moses by faith, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents; because they saw that he was a child, and they feared not the king's commandment.
So David took his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise up against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And David said to Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me, and hath said unto me, Tell all the business that I have sent thee, and I have commanded thee: and there was a certain place wherewith the young men are to go.
And they said, There shall be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And when Saul had established his kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against the children of Ammon, and the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned, he smote himself.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it; and he drew near unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
And what shall I yet say? for the time would fail me to tell of Ben-hadad, Sheva, the son, and the test, David, and Samuel, and the prophets:
And when all the men of Shechem's tower heard that, they entered into the hold of the house of God.
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall prosper over thee, and prophesy with them, and turn unto another man.
But Christ as a son over his own house, whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of hope unto the end.
And David went thence, and went into the cave of Adullam; and his brethren heard it, and all his father's house, and went down unto him there.
Then the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came unto Gibeah unto Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
So David ran up to the Philistines, and laid his foot upon him, and David took his sword out of his sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that they were dead, they fled.
Let your gentle behavior know: The Lord is nigh.
For if the blood of goats and the ox, and the dust from the burning of a young cow, thou shalt make the flesh clean;
For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity a change of the law.
And David returned again, and smote the land, until there was no man nor a woman yet alive: and he took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the raiment; and he returned to Ahijah.
And David sware again, and said, Thy father shall certainly know that I have found favor in thine eyes, and he said, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but yet, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, but as a way betwixt me and death.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest wrath fall upon thee, and thou shalt lose thy life, with the living of thy house.
Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle; and they gathered themselves together at Shechem, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Zobah and Azekah, in the time when they defied.
And now, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
If the man said unto him, They will thoroughly burn the fat thereof, and take as thy soul desireth: he would say unto him, Nay; but if not, I will take by force.
For there is verily a murmuring of the commandment, which went before for the weakness and in vain.
And the Amorites pressed up the children of Dan unto the hill-country, and they did not allow them to come down to the Arabah;
Wherefore the foring hands and the loose knees set you up;
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Yea, women were held from us as it is, when I went out before: and the things of the young men are holy, when it is a possession: how much more this day shall be holy?
And he was content, and abode with the man, and was unto him as one of his sons.
And he said unto him, O my Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why is all this befallen us? and where all his signs which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the Midianites.
But if a trespass, let fire come out from him, and consume the inhabitants of Shechem, and the city of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the city of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
And it came to pass, that there was between the mountains that Jonathan, by which Jonathan, set his way unto the Philistines' bands, a flint covered on one side, and a impudent rock on the other side: one was called Bamah, and the other.
Wherefore he was a debtor in all things to be made like his brethren, that he might become a gracious and faithful priest in the things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
in nothing be careful, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known unto God.
and to them that are in Aroer, and unto them that is in sport, and for them in Eshtemoa,
And it shall be raised out of the sword, that escaped the sword, and waxed strong out of weakness; he shall be mighty in war, and made the armies of strangers give way.
And in this place they shall not enter into my rest.
And a certain man of the servants of Saul dwelt there that day, and stood before Jehovah his name, an Edomite, the mighty of Saul's guard.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the Philistines's hand may be against him. Wherefore Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in one of the two.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Behold, and see that is gone from us. And when they had sought it, it was found that Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
And it came to pass after he left, that his servants returned: and when they saw that the doors of the upper chamber were shut, they thought, saying, Surely he is in the cool of the cool chamber.
And they ran, and gathered him there: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than all the people from his shoulders and upward.
For he careth not with angels, but careth with the seed of Abraham.
Wherefore, coming into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and oblation thou shalt not despise; but thou hast prepared me a body.
Jehovah will take away; and he maketh rich; he maketh low, yea, he maketh high.
And Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, and was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
And Jotham ran, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, for the fear of Abimelech his brother.
And when Abiathar the son of Nethaniah fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Micaiah hallowed the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard with us, lest any grievous man fall upon thee, and gather thy life, and the life of thy household.
And he said, Send me away, for our family is in the city, and my brother commanded me to be present. And if I have found favor in your sight, let me fail me, and see my brethren. Therefore he came not to the king's table.
And he said to Bidkar, Tell me, I beseech thee, what maketh thy strength so great; and with what can thou be bound up to subdue thee?
And there ran a man of Benjamin from the host, and came to Shiloh in that day; and his clothes were rent and earth upon his head.
And another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and the other company turned the way to the end that looketh over the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
For if that the first covenant was without spot, then should no place be sought for the second.
And in the morning Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
And Saul said, Let God do unto me, and more, thou shalt surely die this day, Jonathan.
And Achan the son called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I beseech thee, and strengthen me alone, O God, that I may take one vengeance upon the Philistines for mine eyes.
And Samuel said, Though thou shouldest seem little to thyself, are thou not the head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah hath anointed thee with the holy oil of the holy oil.
The river of Kedemoth, their bodies, the stream of Naphtali, the stream of Kedemoth, the stream of Kedemoth: tread thou, O my soul, upon the mighty.
And after him, he was Abdon the son of Hakkatan, a Pirathonite, the judges of Israel.
For the law made nothing perfect, but the gift of a good hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And the hand of death was hanged, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
Him therefore I hope to send straightway; and straightway I shall see how it will go with me.
Then smote Baal, and all the people that were with him, rising up early, and encamped by the well of marching; and the Midianites were on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
which was a gift for the present time, in which both the gifts and the sacrifices which were offered were not able to be perfect with respect to the conscience;
And David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest; and Ahimelech came to meet David; and he said unto him, Why art thou alone, and there are no man with thee?
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanite in Ziklag, and destroyed it; and called the name of the city Hormah.
To whom he sware, that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that were disobedient?
And the men of the tribe of Judah said unto them, Why come ye up against us? And they said, We are come to bind a son, and to give him what he hath done against us.
Then David arose, and fled that day for the fear of Saul, and went to Ahijah the king of Gath.
In that he saith new, He hath made the first old; But that which is old and old drew near away.
And they ran, and took him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than all the people from his shoulders and upward.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye found no thing in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
Jesus, even Jesus, and unto day, and for evermore.
whose voice then moved the earth; but now he speaketh, saying, Yet once once, and I will move not the earth, but the heaven also.
And the king said unto the messengers that stood about him, Return, and slay the priests of Jehovah, for their hand is with David, because they knew that he was fled, and they told it not unto me. And the king's servants would not put forth their hands against the priests of Jehovah.
And now thou hast altogether any more than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, king of Moab? did he contend with Israel? did he in all fight against them?
And the number of them that took their hand to their mouth were three hundred men: but all the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
And it came to pass, that when he saw that he was the angel of Jehovah, and said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! because I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
See that ye refuse him not that speaketh: for if they have escaped not that refused him that spake upon the earth, much more shall not we, that turn away from him that spake unto us from heaven.
For the fear of death was in every city, and the hand of God was exceeding heavy. And the men that did not die were afflicted with the boils: and the cry of every city went up to heaven.
How much more, if the people have eaten the prey of their enemies, which they found? was there not a great slaughter among the Philistines?
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath borne childless, thy mother shall be childless among women. Then Samuel smote them in the presence of Jehovah in Gilgal.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father commanded the people; and he put forth the end of the rod, which he had in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb: and he carried his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were lightened.
ye put all things under his feet: for in all things he suffered nothing, he left nothing that was not subject to him: but now we have not yet seen all things under him,
And Jehoash the son of Jehoash returned from the battle by the way of the ascent of the dunghill.
And as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with instruments of music.
Having therefore, brethren, without boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? to whom shall he go up from us?
and do not do good and good: for God is pleased with such sacrifices.
And he said unto the men of Peniel, When I come in peace, I will break this tower.
And being called by God a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and the Lord wrought great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it, and didst rejoice. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, that is slain David?
And he had thirty sons, who went upon thirty asses; and they had thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which are called Jair, unto this day.
Be ye imitators of me, brethren, and consider your eyes on them that walk thus as ye have us for a example.
And if I say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon thee, take them up; come thou unto me; for there is peace unto thee, and there is no evil, as Jehovah liveth. But if I speak thus to the lad, behold, the arrows are beyond thee: go in peace, for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
to them in Beth-el, and to those at the South, and to those in Jattir,
And the first smote, which Jonathan and the bearer of his weapons smote was of twenty men, in the midst of half a beam of a field.
Now are ye better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, king of Moab? did he fight against Israel, or fought against them?
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, See as Zebah and Zalmunna, concerning whom thou hast reproached me, saying, Art thou the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are weary?
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Return, and slay the priests of Jehovah: for their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and showed it not unto me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to bring thee to him to wife.
And they turned six hundred men, and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and tarried in the rock of Rimmon four months.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And the Philistines assembled themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand that is on the sea-shore. And they came up and encamped at Michmash, toward the east of Aven.
And when they were come in, he saw Eliab, and said, Is Jehovah anointed before him?
Then did Abigail hastened, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready arrayed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them upon asses.
But the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
And Jehovah sent te Baal, and Naarah, and Baal, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about, that ye dwelt in safety.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel went not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? and it was found that none came from Gilead to the congregation.
For in this the elders were testified.
And when he shewed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his family.
And Samuel told him all the words, and hid not from him: and he said, It is Jehovah; he doeth that which is good in his eyes.
For the law, having a shadow of the good to come, not the image of the things, can not with the same sacrifice year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect them that approach.
Let my lord the king hear now unto the words of his servant. If the Lord that provoketh thee against me, let him take a offering; but if it be the children of men, let them be cursed before Jehovah, to cause me to drive me out this day, and keep me from my place in the possession of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And it came to the children of Ammon to fight against them: and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
I sent therefore the more gladly, that when ye shall see him again, ye may be blessed, and I may have the less sorry.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people have sinned against Jehovah, in that they eat flesh with the blood. And he said, Thou hast dealt treacherously; thou hast laid a great stone unto me this day.
And he spake also to the men of Peniel, saying, When I returned in peace, I will break this tower down.
And they sent and gathered all the nobles of the Philistines, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried over to Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel there.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin in the presence of Israel; and the children of Israel smote on that day five thousand and five hundred men of Benjamin, all that were lifted up captive.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite, of Beth-Lamech Judah, and I will go to sojourn where I shall find.
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and he laid a ambush in the valley.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and those that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
not according to the covenant which I made unto their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not tarry in my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and they that were left were scattered, so that none two of them were left together.
Wherever they went forth, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had sworn to him; and the things was very hard for them.
And they sent messengers to all the tribe of Benjamin, to say unto them, Wherefore great abomination is found among you?
And David called unto the people, and unto Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who thou hast called unto the king?
And when the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, they told these things unto the people. And all the people lifted up their voices and wept.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Follow: for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail.
And she put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the handle of the workers's hammer; and with the hammer she smote, and smote through his head: Yea, she wounded and smote through his temples.
that ye may not be se, but be imitators of them that through faith and patience, the promises of the promises.
And the olive-tree saith unto them, Have I ceased from my fatness, whereby they honor gods and men, that I have gone to wander over the trees?
And Cush and Shua fled, and pursued them, and pursued them, all their host.
but he hath shed himself, taking a slave's form, and took his place in the likeness of men.
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines for a year and four months.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah delivered the sore of Megiddo king of Mesopotamia into his hand; his hand prevailed against Ethiopia, to Gittaim.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed one is witness this day, that ye found not anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
Then they made a line round about the camp, every man in his place; and all the host, awaking from sleep, came running out, and fled with shouting.
so that the first covenant was not made without blood.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they both went forth into the field.
And oh that this people were in my hand, then I turned Abimelech also. And he said unto Abimelech, Take thee thy host, and come out.
Behold, brethren, lest there be in any of you a wicked heart of disobedience, in turning away from the living God.
And all Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba perceived that Samuel was faithful as a prophet unto Jehovah.
But it came to pass at the time of Saul's daughter, that she should have been given to David, and she was given to wife the wife to wife.
I saw that thou wouldest not save us; I was my life, and I passed over to the children of Ammon; and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore have thou come up unto me this day to fight against me?
Now faith is the riches of things hoped for, the witness of things which are not seen.
And Ephraim made not the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Let us therefore fear, lest, not, being left of entering into his rest, any one of you would seem to fail.
And he said unto her, If they bind me with new cords that have not been done, I will be weak, and be like one else.
And Jonathan gave his weapons to his child, and said unto him, Go, carry them into the city.
neither shall I pour out my blood upon the earth from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel hath come forth to possess my life, like one that goeth after the birds in the mountains.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that smiteth this Philistines, and take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised master, that he should defy the host of the living God?
And there was war again. And David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And he said unto all the thorns, What is the men whom thou hast slain in Tabor? And they said, They were like unto thee; each one of them had the appearance of the king's sons.
And Saul said unto his servants, See, I pray thee, a man that hath gotten a stringed instrument, and bring him unto me.
And he went through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came at the east of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, and came not into the border of Moab, for the Arnon the border of Moab.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, punishment shall not meet thee for this thing.
while it is said, To-day, if ye hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion.
And they slew the bullock, and brought the child to Boaz.
And he said unto God, To see that thou wilt deliver Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and let us build the kingdom there.
Is it not wheat of harvest to day? I will call upon Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; and ye shall know and see that ye yourselves have done a great evil in the sight of Jehovah, to make a king over you.
And David said, Shall the princes of Keilah deliver me, and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall deliver thee.
But yet, Jehovah liveth, the God of Israel, who hath kept me back from doing evil with thee: for if thou hadst hasted, and come to meet me, surely there had not been left the Carmelite, until the light of the morning, of them that sat upon the wall.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then both thou, and the king that hath reigned over you, shall be imitators of Jehovah your God.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his people Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of Jehovah.
And it was so, that he rose up early on the morrow, and pressed the wool, and the dew out of the fleece, the fulness of the bowl of water.
Ah curse, saith the angel of Jehovah; curse, curse the inhabitants thereof; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
And when the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I will visit that which Amalek did unto Israel, that he laid for him in the way when he went up out of Egypt.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that asked, Shall Saul reign over us? give the men to us, that we may slay them.
And he answered David, saying, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
The Spirit answered the servants of David, and said, Who is David? who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants that break away from their masters these days.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah after the Philistines, and made them slaughter, until they came under Bethbaing-ja-kiln.
Now David was the son of Nahash, the son of Beth-lehem Judah, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons, and he was old man in Saul's day, and far about in years.
And they fled, and pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were straitened, the people were grieved, they hid themselves in the caves, and in the thickets, and in the rocks, and in the dens, and in the dens.
And all the masters of Shechem's tower heard, and went into the high place of the house of God,
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
And why do ye harden your heart as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? do not they, when he roll himself upon them, send them away, and they go?
each of you do not regard to his own things, but each of you also to the things of others.
And Samuel answered and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high place, for thou art to eat with me this day: in the morning I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, or Gezer, but dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the thresholds, made tributary for them.
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
And it came to pass in the morning when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife told him these words; and his heart died within him, and he became like a stone.
And all the men of Israel, that were hiding themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, heard that the Philistines fled, and pursued after them in battle.
These are the nations whom Jehovah left, that by them he might instruct Israel, and all that knew not the wars of the Canaanites:
and his father's father shall hold on him, the father of the damsel, and he shall abide with him three days; and they shall eat and drink, and lodge there.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, When Melchizedek met him.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah; and Elkanah knew Hanun his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And Achan said of them, I am more innocent this time than the Philistines, though I do with them evil.
And it came to pass, if there were so, that, if the priests were fulfilled, ( for under it the people have received the law), what need was there for another priest to rise after the commandment of Melchizedek, and not be called after the commandment of Aaron?
Neither is there any creature from his sight: but all things are naked and open to his eyes, to whom our speech is.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father commanded the people; and he put forth the end of his staff which was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes became bright.
Therefore they asked of Jehovah further, saying, Is there yet a man to come hither? And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the vessels.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they asked and asked, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
For let this mind be in you that in Christ Jesus:
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before those other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
So Saul and his men went to seek him; and it was told David, and he went down to the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon; and Saul hearkened to him after David in the wilderness of Maon.
Now this man went up from his city every year to worship, and to offer offerings unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Bela, Gibeath and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And the princes of Gilead said one to another: Whosoever one of us shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon, he shall be the prince of the people of Gilead.
and let us look one another, to provoke to love and to good works:
receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor.
So on that day he called Baal Baal, saying, Let Baal contend against him; because he had destroyed his altar.
And Gezer went out in the sight of the people of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
Then answered Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, let the man of God whom thou hast sent come again unto us, and teach us what we should do to the child that shall be born.
And Ezekiel sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What, to me and to thee, that thou hast come to me, to fight in my land.
And the number of the days which David dwelt in the field of the Philistines days and four months.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the gathering that was with it, wherein the gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
It had therefore the first tabernacle, the ordinances of service, the holy temple,
And he set the lamps on fire, and ran into the ears of the Philistines, and burned up the shocks, and the grain, and the olive-tree.
And the wife of Eber took a nail of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his own house, and fastened it into the ground: for he was fast asleep and weary. And he died.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will entreat Jehovah for you.
more than that, I consider all things for the exceeding greatness of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and consider them dung, that I may gain Christ;
And Gilead's wife bare him sons: and when his wife's sons were lifted up, they drove paint, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
And Ebed-melech put forth his left hand, and took the javelin from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly.
Then there shall stand upon an altar there unto Jehovah, and he shall call the name of Jehovah's name: unto this day it is at Ophrah, of the Herness.
And they were afflicted, and oppressed eighteen years, all they that dwelt beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand that is on the sea-shore. And they came up, and encamped at Michmash, eastward from Beth-aven.
And it came to pass, when he came to a place where there was a cave digged, where there was a cave in the rock; and Saul went in for a spies; and David and his men were in the innermost parts.
This is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain with a man.
concerning whom we have much to say, and hard to be interpreted in speaking; for ye are become dull of hearing.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, which were taken from thee, concerning which ye sware, and said in my ears, I have given this silver unto Jehovah from my hand for myself, to make a graven image, and a molten image: behold, I have the silver, for I took it: and now I will restore it unto thee. And his mother said, Blessed be Jehovah my son.
And the walls of Jericho came down by faith, after seven days.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel thy servant, thy servant hath heard that Saul seeketh to come unto the city of Saul, to destroy the city for me.
And his father went down unto the woman; and Caleb made a feast there; for so the young men used to do.
And he did great things, and smote the Amalekites, and redeemed Israel out of their enemies.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? what hath he done?
Hear, O kings; give ear, O princes: I will sing unto Jehovah: I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed, and thy vineyards, and give it to his princes, and to his servants.
Now in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he spake, Come, and let us go to the seer: for he is called now a prophet before called a seer.
And it shall come to pass, when the people were come down to the waters, that Jehovah said unto him, The water with their tongues shall be as the serpent; and they shall set apart by themselves; but they that shall drink the knee shall be on the other side.
And Gath the son of Obed went out, and stood at the door of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and all his army with him from the places of the ambush.
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And she said unto her, How wilt thou be drunken? turn away thy wine from thee.
And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay in the valley as grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude.
These exercise it from love, knowing that I avenge the gospel.
And all the chastening for the present is not glad, but sorrow: but afterwards the fruit of the righteousness of righteousness to them that have wrought thereby.
And they were now afar off from the house of Meribah, the men that dwelt in the houses of the men gathered together followed them.
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul: and Jehovah grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.
How shall we do for wives for those that remain, seeing we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?
In bitter hatred I persecuted the church: I kept all the righteousness of the law unto the last.
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah would not kill us, he would not have taken from our hand the burnt-offering and the grain offering, or shewed us all these things, or now told us such things as these.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest haply men of horses run upon thee, and lose thy life, and the lives of thy household.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel: and whosoever shall hear, both his ears shall tingle.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
And David and his men came into the city, and they saw that it had been burned down, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters.
For great men shall swear by them, and that which is greater than themselves, and that which is to be saved is the end of all men.
with the church many and strange are not brought; for it is good that by grace is confirmed, not with meat, in which they were not profited;
Now now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and rise ye up early in the morning, and when ye see the day, go ye.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
But the high priest went in unto the second, once a year, not to make a offering of blood for himself, nor for the people.
So I have sworn unto the house of Ish-bosheth that no sacrifice of flesh, or of food, which they shall make atonement for his family.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I will give thee to wife; only be a valiant man, and fight against Jehovah. Now Saul said within himself, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hands of the Philistines be upon him.
In thy going this day thou shalt find two men by the grave of Rachel in the border of Benjamin, at the border of Benjamin, and they shall say unto thee, The asses were found which thou hast gone to seek; and, behold, thy father hath left the matter of the asses, and was grieved for you, saying, What do I do for my son?
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
And chose for the people of God, rather than to see the reconciliation of sin;
seeing he was longing after you all, and in sorrow, because ye heard that he was sore.
Then Saul was wroth at Jonathan, and said unto him, O son of the perverse, rebellious woman? Shall I not know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy shame, and the nakedness of thy mother's nakedness?
And David said unto him, Whom art thou, and whence art thou? And the young man said, I am an Egyptian, a servant of an Amalekite, a Amalekite; but my master hath forsaken me, because I became three days old.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until ye come to Gaza: they left no food in Israel, nor sheep, ox, or ass.
For he looked for the city, having the foundations, Whose counsellor and the God of God.
Behold, all ye children of Israel: Make your judgment and your counsel.
And Nobah said unto Micaiah, Behold, thou hast played upon me, and speakest unto me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, with which thou art bound.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, was the son of Me-zahab.
But of the brethren in the Lord's brethren, with reason of my bonds, all the strong to give the word of God without fear.
and ye know the proof of him, that as a child a father, with me he ministered unto the gospel;
And David went and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together unto Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel: and when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
There is none holy like Jehovah; for there is none besides thee, Neither is there any rock like our God.
And Micaiah hallowed the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel repented of Benjamin their brother, and said, To-day is one tribe destroyed from Israel.
And there was a altar, and there was an altar to Jehovah, and called it Jehovah's savor. Unto this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the chief.
and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that afflict you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land,
And when David had ended speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
Why do ye despise my sacrifice, and at my offering, which I commanded my habitation, and bear thy children above me, to make yourselves fat from the beginning of every offering of Israel, of my people?
That the generations of Israel would know war, to teach them that did not know it before.
For thy throne shall be empty until day; and thou shalt go down quickly, and come unto the place, where thou shalt be hid in the day when it is lawful to work, and thou shalt abide beside the stone, which is called.
And her torment, and vex her, and troubled her exceedingly, so that she bare her, that Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day, Before the sun goeth, What sweeter than honey? and what stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, Except ye had plowed with my heifer, ye found not out my riddle.
And the name of his first-born was Joel, and the name of his second Abijah, who were judges in Beer-sheba.
But he, because he endureth for ever, hath the office of priesthood.
Go and call upon the gods that ye have chosen: Let them deliver thee in the time of trouble.
because it was given unto you in the cause of Christ not only to believe him, but to be tormented in his account:
Behold, as thy life was precious in mine eyes this day, may my life be great in the sight of Jehovah, And deliver me from all trouble.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah been revealed unto him.
And the children of Israel served Eglon king of Moab, eighteen years.
Only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing;
And they believed David, saying, He hath made himself utterly hated among his people in Israel, and he shall be my servant for ever.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the bread thereof; and a flame came up out of the rock, and devoured the flesh and the cakes; and the angel of Jehovah appeared no more.
And this man was more honorable than Moses, even as the builder of a house is more honorable than the house.
and the sin of thy servant shall be forgiven: for Jehovah will surely strengthen thy house, because my lord shall fight in the war of Jehovah; and there shall no evil be seen in thee all thy days.
And Caleb's son's wife was brought to him that he had conceived.
And I will draw out Timothy, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and bands, unto the valley of Kishon, and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet sweet, and my good fruit, and go to wave the trees?
The mountains shook Jehovah's presence, even Sinai at the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Bethhage.
And the children of Benjamin numbered that day, out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, were numbered, seven hundred chosen men.
And Saul said unto his servants, See now, I pray thee, I pray thee, man that can play well, and bring him to me.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, when they were at Haran.
And the man of thine I shall not cut off from mine altar, to cause thine eyes to fail and to grieve thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die in their strength.
Of the family of the Danites, six hundred men of Mareshah, and Eshtaol, armed with weapons of war, set forth therefrom.
In the days of Shaphat, the son of Beor, in the days of Bani, the highways were forgotten; the men that were walking after them were walking through.
And Moses by faith, when he was born, was hid for three months by his parents, because they saw the child fair, and were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Then Saul cast the spear upon him to smite him; and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to slay David.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man fail for him: thy servant shall go and fight with this Philistines.
And now, is it true, as they have said unto me, that Saul is coming? O Lord, the God of Israel, hear thy servant, and say if these things be so. And the Lord said, He is coming down.
And Jehovah will reward every one according to his righteousness, and his faithfulness; for Jehovah hath delivered thee this day into my hand, and I would not put forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And the trees say unto the vine, Come thou, reign over us.
And Saul heard that David was seen, and the men that were with him. Now while Saul dwelt in Gibeah, and was in the wood, which is by Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him.
And she fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, be the blame: let thy servant speak in thine ears; hear the words of thy servant.
And the king said, Oh, thou shalt inquire his son the young man.
who, being in the form of God, did not impute robbery by God,
And she said, Stand before the door of the tent, and when any one cometh and inquire of thee, saying, Is there any man here? thou shalt say, There is none.
And when Saul heard this, he sent other men, who likewise became prophets; and the third days Saul sent messengers, and they were like the apostles.
And it came to pass, as soon as he returned to pass from Samuel, that God gave him another heart; and all that signs were done that day.
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, which cometh through Jesus Christ unto glory and praise of God.
And he said unto him, Far be it: thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall do nothing either great or small, and not to rise up; and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
And there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Imri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Meshezabel, the son of a Benjamite, a Benjamite, a mighty man.
And if I live, thou shalt show me the lovingkindness of Jehovah; but if I die,
For here we have no city, but we seek one to come.
Seeing that God is able to raise up from the dead: wherefore he received him for a parable.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god that cometh up out of the earth.
And his concubine was wroth with him, and departed from him to her father's house in Beth-lehem-judah, and was there four months.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and prospered over David the Spirit of Jehovah from that day and forward: and Samuel arose, and went to Ramah.
And when the spirit of God was on Saul, David took the harp, and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
And Shema the son went and fetched three hundred the foxes, and took the lamps, and turned tail unto tail, and put a lamp between the two tails in the midst.
And Abigail hastened, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep, and five measures of raisins, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred bunches of figs, and put them on the asses.
And when the Philistines saw, and saw David, he despised him; for he was but a child, and white favoured.
And when he continued stedfastly, he received the promise.
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, as the feast of a king; and the heart of the spirit was merry within him, because he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
Now therefore take heed now, and drink not wine, and drunkenness, and eat no unclean thing.
There is a set out of the former commandment, because of the weakness thereof, and because of idleness.
And the priest answered David, saying, I have no common bread at hand, but only holy bread, if the young men be clean, especially from women?
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who shall stand before Jehovah this holy God? and to whom doth he go up from us?
And they said, What is the trespass offering that we should return unto him? And they said, The number of the princes of the Philistines is five: therefore send five gold of gold and five gold; for one plague upon thee, and all thy princes.
For I know that this shall fall out to me for salvation, through your supplication, and the supply of the Spirit of Christ Jesus:
And ye shall say, Peace be to my brethren, and to thee, and peace to thy house, and peace to all that thou hast.
and they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and the breaches thereof, and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we serve thee.
And the peace of God, which is deeper than all knowledge, shall keep your hearts and mind in Christ Jesus.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste, and come; for the Philistines thrust the land.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of barley grain, and these ten loaves, and run into the camp of thy brethren.
And they answered every time, saying, Where hast ye defied this day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and unto the south of the ascent of the gate, and the south of the Kenite.
not in strife, or in the pride of the glory, but in the meekness of mind, the same is counted more excellent than yourselves.
And Saul took him that day, and did not let him return to his father's house.
And it came to pass, when it was come to pass, when a man was minded a dream to his friend, and he said, Behold, I had a dream: a loaf of barley bread went down into the camp of Midian, and it came up to the tent, and it smote it; and it fell, and turned it upside down, that the tent fell.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Where goest thou? And he said, To search for the asses; and when we saw none, we went to Samuel.
And the priest gave him the bread bread; for there was no bread there, save the bread of the face, which was removed from the presence of Jehovah, to set a bread there upon the day when it was taken away.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, I will give Achsah my daughter as wife.
And the rulers of the Philistines were gathered to sacrifice a great sacrifice to shear their god, and to rejoice; and they said, Our god hath made the enemy, our enemy, into our hand.
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak that is in Ophrah, which belonged to Joash the Temanite, and beat his son in the winepress, to remove the Midianites.
And the Levite agreed to abide with the man; and the young man became as one of his sons.
For if the word spoken by angels was faithful, and every transgression and disobedience received a righteous reward;
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, with overseers and ministers:
and the curious things of the bakers, and the ordinances of the flesh laid upon them unto the time of correction.
And it came to pass at the time when the daughter of Saul had been given unto David, that she was given to Adriel the wife of his wife.
And Samuel died; and all the children of Israel were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. So David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And Mesha gathered together all the men of Gilead, and he made war with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye that go of Ephraim, ye are of Ephraim and Manasseh in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And they went up into the city. And when they were walking in the midst of the city, behold, the Syrians came out against them, to go up to the high place.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
And if ye live in the flesh, this is to me the fruit of travail, and what I shall choose, I know not.
the same is an image for the present time, according to both gifts and sacrifices, not to perfect as to conscience him that worshipped,
And the army sent to Shiloh, and brought from there the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, that sitteth between the cherubim. And the two sons of the bakers, Gibeath and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanites that dwelt in Zerah, and utterly destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Ye see that I have heard all that thou saidst unto me, and have set a king over thee.
And he made him a spear that had two tenons, a cubit length; and he had girded it under his raiment upon his right thigh.
And he took all the flocks and herds, and made them go before him: and they said, This is the spoil of David.
For this youth I prayed, and Jehovah gave me my prayer which I asked of him.
And I will forget their sins and their iniquities no more.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him in Riblah, between Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Eshtaol.
And he said, My brethren, children of my mother, they are Jehovah liveth, if ye had kept them alive, I had not slain you.
And he said unto all Israel, Art thou on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee.
And the king said, Inquire thou, whose son is this man.
And Jonathan answered and said, Why shall he die? what hath he done?
For the law maketh men high priests which have no infirmity: but the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is sanctified for evermore.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And in this place, If they shall enter into my rest.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities they destroyed among them.
And they went up in the ascent of the city, and found young women coming out to draw water, and say unto them, Is the seer in this?
And David said unto Ahijah, Therefore knowest thou that which thy servant do. And Abimelech said unto David, Therefore I will appoint thee all the days of my head.
And Midian and Amalek, and all the sons of the east are lying in the valley, as the locusts for multitude; and of their camels there was no number, as the sand that was upon the sea-shore.
And he shall take your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-trees, and give them unto his servants.
And David inquired again unto Jehovah, and said, Arise, go down to Kehelathah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
For he made not the angels rulers over the world to come, whereof I am writing.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked from him a king.
When he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first covenant old: But all that is sold of old and of old things shall not be found again.
I sware, and I sware, saying, They can not come into my rest.
even though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man think that he hath whereof he hath in the flesh, I more;
It is no more my desire for Saul to be king; for he hath turned aside from my ways, and hath not done my commandments. And Samuel was very sad, and cried unto Jehovah in prayer all night.
And it came to pass, when David had ended speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna fled; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and put all the people to curse.
And as Samuel offered up the burnt-offering, the Philistines increased to battle against Israel. And Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were routed before Israel.
seeing our eyes upon Jesus, the Prince, and preserved of faith, who for the joy which was set before him bare the cross, reproached the shame, and sat at the right hand of the throne of God.
And it came to pass, that year after year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, she would provoke her, so that she would weep, and would not eat.
then say thou unto him, God God forbid thee, and let it go well with thee, with thy house, and with all that is thine.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring Samuel up for me.
I exhort, as unknown as the interpretation of the Lord.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel went out the next day to fight against the children of Benjamin.
And they beat Benjamin, and pursued them, and chased them from thah unto the east side of Gibeah.
So therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing the Lord withhold thee from blood by taking words into thine own hand; then may thine enemies be as Nabal, even those that seek to do my lord hurt.
And when Saul saw David going out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, I live, O king, I know not.
And he went and took three hundred the foxes, and joined them tail to tail, and fastened them between the tails.
And afterward the heart of David smote him, because he had cut off the skirt of Saul.
And Jehovah looked at him, and said, Go in this thy might, and save Israel out of the hand of Midian: have I not sent thee?
And he came to Succoth, and said unto them, Woman, whom ye have beguiled me, whom ye bare me, saying, Peradventure the hands of Sheba and Zichri are in thy hands; and now thou sayest that we should give bread to the men that are weary and faint.
And the gift came unto Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of the Hebrews, that is before the wilderness?
And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of Iphtah-el, because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now now restore those countries again.
And a man of Benjamin ran out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
And David went out to all that Saul had sent him, and he prospered: and Saul set him over the soldiers, and he was pleased in the eyes of all the people, and more than the eyes of Saul's servants.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be thou to me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver a year, a token of raiment, and thy food. And the Levite went in.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and spake to them, and to all the family of his mother's mother's father, saying,
deliver up the men of Gibeah, that have committed this evil thing, that they may die, and the evil be taken away out of Israel: but they would not hearken unto the ark of their brethren the children of Israel.
And he said unto God, If thou art the saviour of Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken,
Now therefore hearken unto their voice; only surely thou shalt surely rebuke them, and declare unto them the king's customs, who reigneth over them.
And after him, Elon the Ishmaelite Israel, and he judged Israel ten years.
And the handle also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade; for he drew not out of his body; and it came out behind.
And now arise early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that are with thee, and go into the place I have given thee, and have no lewdness in thine heart; for thou art good in mine eyes; for when the morning is sufficient in the morning, go away.
I know how to be weak, and I know how to abound: in everything and in all things I am knit together both to be full, and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer in stature.
So Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments; and he went with two of his men. And they came to the woman by night, and said, I pray thee, inquire of me, I pray thee, a spirit of the cistern, and bring me up for me whom I tell thee.
And the war prevailed against the Philistines all the days of Saul; when Saul saw any mighty man, and any son of valour, then he would gather him unto himself.
And Abimelech with his company digged, and stood at the gate into the gate: and the other two bands made a rush upon all that were in the field, and prevailed over them.
And Saul was called, and all the people that were with him, and they came unto the battle: and behold, every man's sword was against his neighbor, a very great destruction.
And he said, What is the message that he hath spoken unto thee? hide it not from me: let God punish thee sore, if thou hide anything from me of all the words which he told thee.
And this I pray, that your love should abound more, and more in full knowledge and all understanding;
And thy princes, Issachar, were with sleb; and Naphtali was multiplied in the valley; they ran into the valley at his feet; and in Reuben there were divisions, and great men of heart.
and to them that were in Sepharad, and to those in the cities of the hired elite, and to those in the cities of the Kenites,
Whosoever hath passed away by the law of Moses's law, without mercy, or three witnesses,
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
Let the marriage be in honor among all, and let the bed be perfect: But God will judge the fornicators and the adulterers.
And when Saul saw David going out against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I can not tell.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
For they thought to cut them off, as they did before. But they that were fled, they devised to draw them out of the city, and by their acquaintance, to flee to the highways.
And when the Philistines looked round about, and saw David, he despised him; for he was but a child, and ruddy, and had a good look upon him.
And roughly said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines arose, and came, and drew near to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the host to meet the Philistines.
If he be able to fight with me, and have smitten me, then we shall be unto you for servants: and if I be able to him, and have smitten him, then ye shall be our servants, and serve us.
Then said thus, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And when he arose, he arose, and slew the perfection thereof, and they took away the ornaments that were upon their camels' necks.
And they passed through faith through the Red Sea as through the land of dry land; whereof the Egyptians were swallowed up.
In faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with the unbelieving, taking the spies with peace.
Then Samuel sent the people to come together before Jehovah at Mizpah.
Now I know God will do me good, seeing I have a priest of the children of Levi.
that by them I may try Israel, to see whether they will keep the word of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And David said, What have I done now? was it not only a word?
Let not my lord hearken unto Nabal, that a man of Belial; for as his name is, so is he a understanding: But I thy servant saw not the young men whom my lord sent.
And the men of Ephraim were called together, and passed over the north, and said to Ezekiel, Why hast thou passed over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee.
And when they came to him, he sat in the upper chamber, which was for him alone. And they said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from the throne.
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the hand of the men, and gave them a place at the head of them that were bidden; for there were of thirty men.
All the border of the Amorites was theirs, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, even unto the Jordan.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and if ye rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then will the hand of Jehovah be against you, as against your fathers.
And there went out a troop from the camp of the Philistines, whose name was a brother of Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And Sheva the son went down to Timnah, and saw a woman with the daughters of the Philistines.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
So Saul and all the people that were with him were assembled, and came up to the battle: and, behold, the sword of the Philistines was against his friend; and there was a very great confusion.
For we have not here a city abiding, but we seek the coming.
Wherefore hast thou not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly upon the spoil, and did evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I am a Nazirite unto God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength shall go from me, and I shall be weak, and be like any other man.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Iphtah-el, but found them not: then they passed through the land of Zeboiim, and there they were not; and he passed through the land of the Gileadites, but they found them not.
Pray for us: for we persuade ourselves that we have a good conscience, in all things desire to walk rightly.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or if thy father answer thee roughly?
And the blessed of women is Jehiel, the wife of Eber the Kenite: a blessed is she of women among the tents of tabernacles.
Because of the voice of them that divide the spoil in the midst of the waters, there they shall declare the righteous acts of Jehovah, his righteousness toward his villages in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And he took thereof in his hand, and went to eat, and came to his father and mother, and gave them, and they ate: but he told them not that he had taken the honey out of the dead of the lion.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And the people came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned to the way that leadeth to Ophrah, to the land of Libnah;
And Ezekiel vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt not fail the children of Ammon into my hand,
And the people would not hear the voice of Samuel, and they said, Nay; but there shall be a king over us.
And Abimelech answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in mine sight as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He must not go up with us into the battle.
And he journeyed from thence, and went to the inhabitants of Debir, the ancient name of the former, Eliashib, the city of letters.
By so much is it a good covenant which we have by Jesus.
And now, I pray thee, let my lord the king hearken unto the words of his servant: if Jehovah hath waked you against me, let him delight in a offering; but if it be flesh, let them be accursed before Jehovah; for they have driven me away this day from taking in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And there arose after Abimelech, to save Israel: Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, the man of Issachar, and dwelt in array in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And Abimelech said, Against whom have thou made a distinction to this day? And David said, Unto the south of Judah, against the south of the hired elite, and against the south of the Kenite.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the casting out of the gold by lot and the images of their sores.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth to Jehovah, do unto me whatsoever thou hast promised, since the salvation is given unto thee, and avenge thine enemies.
And he sent, and brought him in. And he was white, and a goodly countenance, and a good countenance. And Jehovah said, Arise, and take him up; for he is he.
And they found out of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgins, virgins, who knew not man by the lying of a male, and brought them in unto the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And furthermore said unto them, If ye be come unto me, that I should fight for you against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah shall deliver them into my company, shall I be your prince?
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
So let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; But let them that love thee shine as the sun shineth in his rising.
So I sware in my anger, If they shall enter into my rest.
And as for me, as I have loved me this day, that my life may be my beloved unto Jehovah, and deliver me from all my troubles.
And the Philistines humbled themselves, and no more added any more to come into the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was upon the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah because of Midian,
And he said unto him, Behold now, a man of God is in this city, and the man is held in glory: all that he saith, let us now go thither; let us now go thither; peradventure he will show us the way that we should go.
Then said unto God, Be not angry with me, if I say only this, let me make a lie with the wool; let the wool now be dried up, while the earth is covered with dew.
but a certain terrible hope of justice and wrath of fire, which is about to devour the adversaries.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was in great affliction, and said unto him, Behold, thy servant hath heard thy words, and I have put my life in danger, that I may do that which thou hast spoken.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, because of Midian,
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into a chamber, and gave them a place at the head of the bidden, and there were about thirty men.
And Eliab his elder brother heard when he spake unto the men; and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou forsaken them few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the base of thy heart; for thou art come down to see the battle.
And the Levites brought down the ark of Jehovah, and the chest in which were the golden images, and put them upon the great stone: and the men of Beth-shemesh burned incense, and worshipped that day before Jehovah.
But the olive tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fat, wherewith they honor God and man, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And when David heard that the spirit was dead, he said, Blessed is Jehovah, who hath taken away my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil; and Jehovah sent back the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and spake concerning Abigail, to take her to himself as wife.
For all seek their own, not the things which Jesus Christ's.
And her husband arose, and followed her, and she spake unto her, and brought her again with him; and he had with him his young man and two asses: and she brought him into her father's house, and her father, when he saw him, and came to him with joy.
And there was trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the trumpeters, they also trembled, and the earth trembled; for it was a trembling God.
Herein Sarah Sarah hath received power to conceive seed: and she bare after the time of life, seeing she did judge him who hath promised.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the congregation was gathered as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, my son David: thou shalt both do mightily, and shalt surely prevail. So David went his way, and Saul returned to his stead.
And it came to pass, saying, Seventy kings, with their thumb and their great toes, cut off, and they shall glean under my table: as I have done, so God hath rewarded me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
And Laban passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
Ask thy young men, and they will say unto thee: Therefore let the young men find grace in thine eyes; for we come on a good day: give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand, to thy servants, and to thy son David.
And the time that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
What ye have learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, these things do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
And he also stripped off his clothes, and prophesied also before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Joshua went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents, on the east side of Teman, and Shethar-bozenai, and smote the camp of the enemies, who were in ease, and had no evil.
For this cause ye also rejoice and joy with me.
And Saul saw that he prospered well, and he feared him.
And now what is under thy hand? give me five loaves in my hand, or what may be found.
that my bonds in Christ hath been known in the whole Praetorium, and to all the rest;
neither shall there be a grief of grief unto thee, and for a plasher of heart to my lord, that thou hast shed innocent blood, that thou hast avenged thyself; and if Jehovah hath done well by my lord, thou shalt remember thy handmaid.
And the evil spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul, while he sat in his house with his spear in his hand. And David was playing with his hand.
It was for them that were at Beth-el, for those at Ramoth of the South, for those in Jattir,
To the congregation and the church of the first-born in heaven was reckoned, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous men made perfect.
But I have received all things in full, and have much abundance; I am well supplied, because I have received of the well that thou hast sent, what thou hast sent, a pleasant offering, an acceptable sacrifice, acceptable unto God.
And he was very thirsty, and called unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant; but now I must die of thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
And the things which ye have learned and received and heard about and seen in me do these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
Therefore lift up the hands that hang down and the feeble knees,
And it came to pass, when Jotham was told, that he went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim; and he lifted up his voice, and cried, and said, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hear you.
and he shall smite the pan, or the pot, or the pot, or the pot: all that the hook shall carry up shall the priest take for himself: thus shall they do unto all Israel that come in, there in Shiloh.
If therefore any exhortation in Christ, if any man love of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any kind of compassion and compassion,
And David said moreover, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall die; or he shall descend into battle, and shall perish.
holding the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I should not run in vain, nor labour in vain.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
and thou shalt hear what they say; and afterward shall thy hand be strong, and thou shalt go down unto the camp. And he went down with his servant, and he went down with his servant without the armed men that were in the camp.
Now Saul was in the hill of Eshcol, which is over against the wilderness by the way; but David dwelt in the wilderness. And when he perceived that Saul had come into the wilderness after him,
And the people of the Philistines came up to her, and said unto her, Distress him, and see in which his great strength lieth, and whereby we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will give thee every one eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And Saul said unto Balak, Bring the ark of Jehovah: for the ark of God was there that day with the children of Israel.
And the princes of the Philistines said to him, What mean the Hebrews? and he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Do ye not know David, who was the servant of Saul the king of Israel, and hath been with me many days or years, and I have found no fault in him, seeing the day that he fled unto me until this day?
And it came to pass, when he was come to his house, that he took his knife, and took the woman, and cut her up bone in twelve parts, which he sent throughout all Israel.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the gathering that was with it, in which were the gold of gold, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
They said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: stand ye still? be not slothful to go, and to enter in to possess the land.
Then went three thousand men of Judah to the top of the rock, and said to the son of Jonathan, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And Jonathan said unto David, Oh that I will do it for thee.
And the blood was upon the tabernacle, and upon all the vessels thereof.
But unto which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
who were left delivered, to cast a stone at a razor without error.
But the man would not tarry there that night; and he arose, and went and passed over against the same city, which is Jerusalem); and he had with him the two asses, ready for the ascent of his wife.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: only testify ye unto them, and declare unto them the way of the king that shall reign over them.
And they beat and afflict the children of Israel in that year, even eighteen years, all the sons of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which were in Gilead.
My heart hath rejoiced in Jehovah, And my horn is exalted in my God: My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; For I have rejoiced in thy salvation.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they did not abide in my covenant, and I have escaped them, saith Jehovah.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a man? and who is like thee in Israel? why hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to slay the king thy lord.
And they said, Thou hast not wronged us, and thou hast not wronged us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, that Jehovah raised up a saviour for them, and fourscore and fourscore, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left hand; and the children of Israel sent tribute by him unto Eglon king of Moab.
Call ye the sacrifice of Jesse, and I will show you what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint me whom I am his name.
And she made a vow, saying, Jehovah, of hosts, if thou wilt look upon the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and forget not thy handmaid, and give to thy servant a man child; I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head.
And Saul returned, and pursued not after the Philistines: and the Philistines went into their own places.
And David took also Achsah of Jezreel, and they were their wives.
And there was a certain man of Mareshah, of the hill-country of Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Suph, and Jezreel,
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and went down from the ass, and fell upon her face before David's anger, and she bowed down to the ground.
As for the thing which we spake, I and thou, behold, Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel slew of Benjamin that day twenty thousand one hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; but she said, He is sick.
And he shall appoint them that he may appoint for himself captains over thousands, and captains over fifties, and that they may plow his ground, and reap his harvest, and make his instruments of war and armor of his chariots.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for I hear evil of all this people.
And Saul was told that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, Behold, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he hath entered into a fortified city with doors, he hath shut himself in.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron: and when the ark of God came to Ekron, the people of the city shouted, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us for the destruction of us and of our people.
And they passed thence unto mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
By faith Abraham, when he was called to go forth into a place which he should receive for an inheritance, hearkened; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
And he went up from thence to Peniel, and spake unto them in like manner. And the men of Peniel answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered.
And David knew that Saul secretly did wrong against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod hither.
Seeing that they had not ceased to be made, because of them that served not the conscience of sins, having once been cleansed?
Humble the dogs, against the workers of iniquity, against them that are of the circumcision:
And they said unto the messengers that had come, Thus thou shalt say to the men of Jabeshgilead, To morrow there is safety for thee when the sun is hot. And when the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh, they rejoiced.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
and unto them in Hormah, and to them that were in Ziklag, and to them that were in Ziklag,
Saul was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty and two years over Israel.
And Manasseh dwelt not Bethshean and its towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns; and the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And Saul dwelt at the end of Gibeah under the pomegranates, which is in Migron; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
And the Holy Spirit also testifieth unto us, saying,
And they said unto him, We are come to bind thee, and to deliver thee into the hands of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Swear to me, and promise me, that ye may not kill me.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Ish-bosheth: The name of Jehovah and Phinehas were slain.
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should shortly escape into the land of the Philistines: and Saul will despair of me to seek me any more in all the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken after another day.
Moses by faith, when he was grown up, and refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel; and he said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: and now, I pray thee, take heed to thyself in the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself.
God hath given into thy hand the captains of Midian Oreb and Zeeb: and what were I able to do unto thee? then their spirit turned away from him in his speaking this thing.
Shall I take my bread, and my water, and the flesh of my cattle, which I have slain for my shearers, and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines went on and waxed great: and Saul said unto the priest, Take away thy hand.
So said all the trees to the serpent, Thou, Thou hast rule over us.
And Samuel told him every bit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what seemeth good to him.
And David said, What meant I avenge this man in the wilderness, that there was no loss of anything which was his? he hath only given me evil for good.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
Howbeit I will not take away a man of thee from my altar; but that thine eyes may faint and thy soul be spent; and a great part of thy house shall die when they come to man.
and they gave him part of a cake of figs, and of some grapes; and after the food, his spirit returned unto him; for he had neither eaten nor drank for three days and nights.
And Jiphthah unto the king of the children of Ammon,
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me, and blessed be thy speech:
by that which we were made holy by the sacrifice of the body of Jesus Christ once and ever.
And the servants of Hakkoz saw David, and said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing unto him in their dancing, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And David rose up after him, and went out of the cave cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king! And Saul looked behind him. And David bowed himself down to the ground, and worshipped.
Now therefore let not my blood fall down to the earth before Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come forth to seek a covering, as when one entereth the partridge in the mountains.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And the men of Ephraim were called to the arms, and passed over to the gate, and said to them, Why hast thou passed over, and fight against the children of Ammon; wherefore didst thou not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house over thee with fire.
If thy father would certainly be slack for me, then say, David speed now, that he would run to Bethlehem his city; for there is a year offering for all the family.
And one answered another, saying, Who is their father? therefore it was a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as before.
As it is said, To-day, if thou wilt hear his voice, be not hard of heart, as when thou hast made him angry.
And they found an Egyptian man in the open country, and brought him to David; and they gave him food, and he did eat; and they gave him water.
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings unto the house of their idols, and to the people.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and none of his words fell to the ground.
and not in order that he may offer himself many times, as the high priest goeth into the sanctuary year by year with blood not his own;
And thy seed and thy vineyards shall he tithe, and shall give to his eunuchs, and to his servants.
For ye both comforteth with prisoners, and received with joy the spoil of your goods, knowing that ye have for yourselves a better treasure and abiding.
And the heart of David smote him, because he had cut off the skirt of Saul's robe.
For he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great deliverance for all Israel. Thou sawest it, and rejoiced: wherefore then will thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, go down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy thee with them; for thou hast showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenite departed from among the Amalekites.
And the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife was Abigail. This woman was skilful, and had a goodly face; but the man was persuaded and evil in his doings: he was of the house of Caleb.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And when I blow the trumpet, I and all that are with me, and blow the trumpets upon every side of all the camp, and shout, for Jehovah, and for it.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah, and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard this, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto him, What hast thou done? And Saul answered, Because I saw that the people turned away from me, and thou wast not come according to the days appointed; and the Philistines were gathered together in Ezion-geber.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee; but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
We desire that every one of you may show the same diligence unto the fulness of hope even unto the end;
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Micah.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgins that had not fallen with a man, and brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And Jehovah said, And Samuel. And Samuel arose, and began to meet him, and said, Here am I; for thou hast said my name. But he answered, I have said nothing, my son; go to thy rest.
And the Syrians said, Bring hither the king of Amalek to me. And Edom came to him. And Edom said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
And there was a certain Levite, who dwelt on the side of mount Ephraim, who took a wife of Bethlehem Judah:
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And he rose up early in the morning, on the fifth day, to go; and the father of the damsel said, Be content, I pray thee, thy heart. And they tarried until the turning of the day, and they both eat.
For this cause he is the mediator of a new covenant, since the death of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, that they that are called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
and go out into the field, and gather their vineyards, and tread, and make confession, and go into the house of their god, and eat and drink, and curse Abimelech.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee: only deliver us, I pray thee, this day.
Now therefore if thou hast any thing at hand, though it were but five loaves, give me, or whatsoever thou canst find.
And now thou art risen up against my father's house, and slay his sons seventy men upon one stone, and make Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the inhabitants of Shechem; for he is thy brother.
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will show ourselves unto them.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have passed over the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words: because I feared the people, I also hearkened unto their voice.
but a certain terrible expectation for the judgment of judgment, and for a ravening zeal, to devour the adversaries.
Fear not; for the hand of my father Saul shall not find thee, and thou shalt reign over Israel, and I will be near unto thee; yea, and my father shall know this.
And they made a covenant both of them before Jehovah: and David dwelt in the forest, and Jonathan went into his house.
For such as the chief priest was become ours, holy, blameless, and undefiled, and undefiled from the sinners, and become higher than heaven.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not provoke the mouth of Jehovah; then shall ye both provoke thee, and the king that hath reigned over you, shall be as Jehovah your God.
And the concubine that he had in Shechem had a son by him, whom he gave the name Abimelech.
And the men of Israel sware at Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said, Thy house and thy father's house should walk before me for ever. But now, Jehovah saith, Be it far from me; for they that honour me will I honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
And it came to pass that same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's bullock, and the second bullock seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us, when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
That we may say, Jehovah is my helper: I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
while it is said, To-day if ye shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the rebellion.
And he went unto his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, being threescore and ten persons, upon one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbesheth was left; for he hid himself.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt; and they followed other gods, and the gods of the people that dwelt round about them, and worshipped them; and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
For God is my witness how I long after you all in the heart of Christ Jesus.
For in that, wherein he himself hath suffered and been tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
not turning aside the gathering of ourselves together, as a custom of some, but exhorting, and so much more as ye see the day.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, as Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
And Jonathan answered Saul, saying, David sought me earnestly to Beth-lehem.
And he said, Behold, I am come to do this: he took away the old, that he might set the new order in its place.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And horsemen fled while they tarried: and he passed by the dead stones, and escaped unto Zoar.
Then said to him, Now where is thy great words, when thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast brought down? go out now, and make war upon them.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it out of the midst of Anathoth unto Ashdod.
And Saul longed of God, and said, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
If the man said unto him, Let the fat be burned first, and take as much as thy soul desireth: then he would say, Nay; but thou givest it unto me now; and if not, I will take it by force.
And David said, Is there not a spear or sword? for I took neither my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's matter was urgent.
And the people sent to Shiloh; and they took up from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who dwelt between the cherubim. And there were two sons of meeting with the ark of the covenant of God.
And it came to pass, when he made a charge of God's ark, that he fell from off the throne by the side of the gate, and brake down his neck, and he died, because he was old and heavy, and he had judged Israel forty years.
And she set it before Saul and his servants, and they had eaten. And they arose, and went away the same night.
And as it is said, Levi, who received tithes, pay tithes in Abraham:
And when his servants said these words unto David, he pleased him to be the king's son: and the days were yet not past.
And the angel of Jehovah came and sat under the oak that was at Ophrah, which belonged to Jehoash the Archite; and his son was threshing wheat in the winepress, to hide it from Midian.
And when he had patience, he received the promise.
For he of whom these are said unto another tribe, whereof no man spake at the altar.
And David went from thence, and went into the cave of Adullam: and when his brethren and his father's household heard, they came down unto him there.
Then the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass after they went forth, that David was more wisely than all the servants of Saul; therefore his name was much set by.
Go not away, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring out my present, and lay it before thee. And he said, I will wait till thou come.
For ye are not come unto the mountain that might be touched, and that burneth with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and storm,
And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, O son. And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as before, and shake myself. And he knew not that Jehovah was departed from him.
And the candlesticks of gold, according to the number of the cities of the Philistines, of the five provinces, from the fortified city unto the village that was without wall, and to the great Abel, which they set down the ark of Jehovah, which was unto that day in the field of Jeshua the Meholathite.
So Libnah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and commander over them. And Abel spake all his words before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And he went up thither to Peniel, and spake unto them in the same way. And the men of Peniel answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered.
And one of the servants told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master, and he rejected them.
Nevertheless thou hast prospered in my affliction with me.
Again he esteemeth a certain day, saying in David, To-morrow long time, as it is above said, To-day, if ye hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.
Even so Christ, having been offered to bear the sins of many, a second time, without a sin offering, shall appear unto them that wait for him unto salvation.
But Zebulun and Naphtali gave their life to death in the region of the terrible.
Now Saul dwelt at the uttermost parts of Gibeah under the pomegranate that was in Migron, and the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
And he said unto God, Let not thine anger be kindled against me, and I will speak but this once: I pray thee, let me make a trial, even once with the fleece of the fleece; let it now be dry upon the fleece, and let there be dew.
And the rest of the kings and the sea apprehended, and yet of bands and of bonds.
and on the third day thou shalt surely come down, and come unto the place where thou wast hid in the day of the work; and thou shalt abide at the stone.
not having suffered our company, as is the necessity of some, but exhorted one another, and by reason ye see the day.
And when he had showed them, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but that man and all his kindred they let go.
for the counsel of the trial of Israel, to see whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had given to their fathers by the hand of Moses.
He in the days of his flesh, having made supplication and supplications with strong voices and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and having been heard for his godly fear,
And the lords of the Philistines brought up unto her seven holes which were not dried up; and she bound him with them.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him the parable, and said, Surely I took a little honey upon the end of my staff; and now I die.
And the men of Israel were called from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling.
He shall keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall be put to silence in darkness; for no man shall prevail by strength.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my prayer which I asked of him:
But one of the young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he blasphemed them.
I heard that thy shepherds that were with us in the wilderness were shepherds; we did not smite them, neither was there any more lacking of the flock at any time, all the while they were with us in Carmel.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Thou comest and reign over us.
For God is he that worketh in you both to work for his good pleasure.
And the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed, because they saw that evil was wrought upon them.
Is not this David, of whom people sung to one another in dancing, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And the Philistines said, I have defied the house of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and departed from Saul.
And because of this, he also is made of a new covenant, that when death cometh, for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, they shall receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
And Shema the son laid till midnight, and he rose up at midnight, and took the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away with them, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the hill that is before Hebron.
Then said Saul unto his servant, If we go, what shall we take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no offering to take unto the man of God: what shall we do?
And it came to pass after they moved, that the hand of Jehovah was against the city, making a great confusion; and he smote the men of the city from the youngest to the first-born, and the wild beasts to break out upon them.
And Abimelech heard that the men of Shechem's tower were gathered together,
Even so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, shall appear a second time without sin, to them that wait for him for salvation.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore come ye up against us? And they said, We have come up, saying, We have come up unto us, that we may do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And it came to pass, that, when Jehovah hath delivered waste and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will rend thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against his words, the hand of Jehovah shall be upon you, and upon your fathers.
And they came over against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was grievous: but they perceived not that the evil was kindled against them.
Only in meat, and drinketh, and different baptizing, and the carnal ordinances, until the time of repentance appointed.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and they that are evil, seeing ye also are in the body.
And it came to pass, when Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise that was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And the children of Israel put away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
For the word of God liveth and weallings and more than any two-edged sword, and stripes as far as the course of life and spirit, both piece and marrow, and able to judge the thoughts and the thoughts of the heart.
O Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, and moved as a army from the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens were troubled, and the cloud toss water.
And David went up from thence to Mizpah of Moab; and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother abide with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
I thank my God upon all remembrance of you.
And David said to Bidkar, If I have found favor in thy sight, let a place be given me in one of the cities of this land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
So Michal brought David down through the window, and he went on, and fled, and escaped.
And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great hail.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I am come down to thee, to offer burnt-offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou wait, until I come unto thee, and tell thee what thou shalt do.
And the people returned unto the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Why hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? let us bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah from Shiloh, and let us come in the midst of us, that it may save us from the hand of our enemies.
Brethren, I do not count myself to have taken: but this one thing I do, that forget the things that are behind, and that goeth out to those things which are before;
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy army?
I am constrained of the sect of the Lord, and I exhort a preacher, to think the same way in the Lord.
And she called Samuel, and said, And Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
according to the jealousy that persecuted the church, according to the righteousness in the law being perfect.
And the people took from the spoil, and the sheep and the cattle, the best of the things that are devoted, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God at Gilgal.
And the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Midian, did overthrow you, and I cry unto your cry.
This I pray, that your love may abound yet more, and more in knowledge and all understanding;
And her wise virgins answered her: Yea, she returned unto her,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
but on the third day thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself on the day of the business, and abide by the stone;
But David pursued, he and four hundred men; two hundred lived behind, that were so weary that they could not pass over the valley of Tobiah.
Now may the God of peace, who made that great shepherd of his flock, even our Lord Jesus, come again from the blood of the eternal covenant;
And all the land came into a forest, and there was honey upon the ground.
And Jonathan called David, and told him all these words: and Jonathan brought in David to Saul, and he was before him, as he had been yesterday, and the day before.
From heaven the stars fought; From their armies they fought against talking.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may kill them.
And they said, Behold, the feast of Jehovah is in Shiloh from time to time, which is on the north of Beth-el, at the rising of the sun, by the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and toward the south of Jokneam.
But they hearkened not unto their judges, for they played the harlot after other gods, and worshipped them; they turned quickly out of the way that their fathers walked, that they should obey the commandments of Jehovah; they did not so.
Let not life be glorified among you, and not defiled: for God's adultery is judged by God.
If ye endure correction, as the children of God shall bear himself unto you? for who is a son whom a father doth not chastise him?
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death: but Samuel mourned for Saul. And Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Now in Carchemish and Zalmunna were in Carchemish, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the host of the children of the east; for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And he said, It is peaceable: I am come to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah, be holy, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified the Hittite and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
But I rejoiced in the Lord exceedingly, that now ye have quickened your thoughts at length of me, though ye also have thought of me, but lacked a opportunity.
Then saith he, Behold, I am come to do. And he took away the first, that he might establish the second.
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, which they that heard have desired themselves, that the word might not be spoken unto them,
For then he hath suffered many times from the foundation of the world: but now once he hath appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And Jonathan cried out after the lad, saying, haste, stay not. And Jonathan's servant gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
Then said Saul unto his servant, But, behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our sacks, and there is no present to bring unto the man of God: what shall we have?
And Saul said unto him, Why have thou conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise up against me as a guest at this day?
But now thy kingdom shall not endure: Jehovah hath sought for himself a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah hath appointed him as a prince over his people; because thou hast not kept what Jehovah commanded thee.
And I prayed for this child, and Jehovah hath given me my request that I asked of him.
We smote the south of the Cherethites, and against that which belonged to Judah, and against the South of Caleb; and, behold, we burned with fire.
And behold, Saul came after the cattle out of the field; and Saul said, What mean the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.
So Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the captain of his host was to Sisera; and he dwelt in Endor.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that willingly offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah.
And the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet, and my good fruit, and go to wave over the trees?
And when the flame of the altar went up toward heaven, the angel of the lord ascended also in the flame; and, behold, and his wife saw this, they fell upon the ground.
And others were troubled of the cruel men of kings and plagues, and also of bonds and of bonds:
And they answered him, saying, Have ye not made a distinction to this day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the goldsmiths, and against the south of the Kenite.
And they sent men to spy out Beth-el. Now the name of the city beforetime was Luz.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
And now, rising up by night, thou and the people that are with thee, and lay wait in the field.
Howbeit I sought this day to inquire of God for him. Far be it from me that the king should reckon any thing against his servant, or against my father's household; for thy servant hath not known any of this thing, little or much.
And her father said, I will certainly say, Thou hast hated her, and I give her to thy neighbor: is not her sister) better than she? let her be now unto thee for her.
And she fled in his foot to the tent of Jehiel the wife of Eber the Kenites: for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Eber the Kenites.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a valiant man? and who is like thee in Israel? wherefore hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to destroy the king thy lord.
And the princes of the Philistines gathered themselves together to make a great offering to shear their god, and to be glad; for they said, Our god hath given into our hands, the son of our enemy.
So Michal let down the window through the window, and he went and fled, and escaped.
And the children of Ammon were called, and encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
Ask thy servants, and they will say unto thee, Let the young men find grace in thine eyes, because we have come on a feast day: give ye whatsoever thou hast upon hand for thy servants, and for thy son David.
For the word of God living and effectual, and more than any two-edged sword, and worketh to divide the life of life and spirit, both of necessities and bridle, and the thoughts of thoughts and thoughts of heart.
And the Sidonians, and the Amalekites, and the Meunim, did afflict you; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And he went up into mount Shepher, he and all his people with him, and he took an iron, and cut down the boughs of a tree, and laid it on his shoulder, and brought it upon his shoulder, and said unto his friends, What thou seest me, do ye go out of hand.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel: and when they were joined to war, Israel was smitten by the Philistines, who slew about four thousand men of the host in the field.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were overcome; and the men of Israel had set their way before Benjamin, and trusted in the watch of the watchers, that stood against Gibeah.
But the people refused to hearken unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
And he had a handful of brass upon his legs, and overlaid his shoulders a shield of brass.
Let us hold the traditions of the hope without wavering; for he is faithful that hath promised).
not seeking his own neighbor's neighbor, But in understanding the things of others.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, an evil spirit from God trouble thee.
Then went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Come in, my lord, come in unto me without fear. And he went into her tent, and she covered him.
And the men of Shechem set wait for him in the top of the mountains, and plundered all that came by them; and it was told Abimelech.
And they turned away the gods of the stranger out of among them, and served Jehovah: but his soul was grieved with the affliction of Israel.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life, and David in the wilderness of Ziph, in a forest.
And the other kine took the way to Beth-shemesh, and they went along the way, as they went; and they turned not aside to the right hand nor to the left; and the lords of the Philistines followed them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And the men of Israel saw that they were in a narrow strait: for the people were distressed); and the people hid themselves in the caves, and in the thick places, and in the rocks, and in strongholds, and in pits.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, O Levite, thou, and all thy father's household.
And Abel came to Mizpah unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; and she was only a only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass, when they went forth, that David succeeded better than all the servants of Saul; and his name was much esteemed.
And there were six hundred men of the children of Dan, armed with their weapons' weapons, at the entrance of the gate.
to them that were in Helem, to them that were in the cities of the hired servant, to them that were in the cities of the Kenites,
waiting diligently, lest any man be willing to the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness groweth up, and by it many be defiled.
For ye know that even when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for a change of mind, though he sought it with tears.
And concerning the word that I have spoken, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
For when God sware unto Abraham, because there was no great oath,
And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: and as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him trembling.
And the name of Saul's wife was AchAhinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And, behold, when they were running with talking, behold, went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And he went into her, and, behold, he was lying dead, and the nail was in his temples.
The river of Jeshurun hath destroyed them, that the ancient river, the stream of Kishon: My soul goeth on with strength.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not, thou shalt not die.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his people Israel; therefore hear ye the words of Jehovah.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and had his seven loops cut off; and when he had been done, he became feeble, and his strength went from him.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me thus, and let mine enemy go, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, and said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
And David said unto his men, Gird up every man his sword. And they girded every man his sword, and David also girded upon his sword, and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred men remained by the vessels.
And he said unto him, Call me, I beseech thee, what is the mystery of thy great strength, and how thou mayest be bound in bonds, and be weak.
Since therefore it abideth for some to enter into it: and the men to whom the Good tidings was preached before did not enter because of disobedience.
And Noah said unto him, Arise now, now thou hast mocked me with falsehood: now say, How shouldest thou be bound? And he said unto her, If thou wilt bring the seven loops of my hair into the napkin, thou hast digged thee, and didst bind the nail, I will faint, and be like any other man.
But the children of Benjamin dispossessed not the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And the weight of the battle was turned upon Saul, and the archers overtook him, and he was sore wounded by the archers.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Abide, that I may tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
For if the word spoken through angels was binding, and every transgression, and the work of disobedience, hath received a righteous penalty;
And David said to Ornan the priest, The king hath commanded me a matter, and he said unto me, Let no man know of the matters that I have sent thee, and that I have commanded thee; and I have caused the young men to know at such a place.
And it came to pass, as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And Shema the son went and took three hundred the foxes, and took torches: and he turned them tail to tail, and he put one lamp between two tails.
And he made himself a two-edged sword, with a bird in the midst of the palm of the hand, and was girded therewith under his garment upon the right thigh.
If therefore any comfort in Christ, if any man love of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any man and compassion,
And David took these words to heart, and durst fear the king of Gath.
So Saul assayed to guard David to the wall with the spear; but Saul smote Saul, so that he smote the spear into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that same night.
And Saul asked the counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
For every high priest took from men, being ordained for men in the things that pertain to God, that he may offer up gifts and sacrifices for sins:
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that plundered them, and sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, that they could not stand before their enemies.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What mean the Hebrews? And Abimelech said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or yet these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell away to this day?
God hath prepared a certain thing for us, that they should not be made perfect.
And his lord said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a foreigner that is not of the children of Israel; but we will pass over to Gibeah.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, that fear the people, and hearken unto their voice.
and the other part of love, having known that I am set to answer of the gospel.
Now the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it with them from Rithmah to Ashdod.
Howbeit Saul, and the host, and the captains of the flock, and the cattle, and the cattle, and the second of the young beasts, and all that was precious; they would not destroy them: but all the substance that were despised or abominable, they utterly destroyed.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when the enemy the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul; and I saw him, even the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
And God hearkened unto the voice of man: and the angel of God came again to the woman, as she sat in the field, but a woman, her husband, was not with her.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
And Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah the Philistines.
And, behold, she pursued with talking with talking, and Jehiel went out to meet him: and she said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And he came with her, and saw that she was lying dead with the nail in his temple.
And it was told to Saul that David had fled to Gath, and sought him no more.
And the women sang as they danced, and said, Saul hath smitten down his thousands; but David his ten thousands.
What will we do for them? for they that are left, for wives, and we have sworn by Jehovah, that we should not give them of our daughters for wives?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And David sware again again, and said, Thy father shall certainly know that I have found favor in thy sight; and he hath thought, Jonathan shall not know this, lest he be grieved: but Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but a way betwixt me and death.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the tip of the rod, which he held in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened bread: and there arose a fire from the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread; and the angel of the Lord vanished out of his sight.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Because I heard the voice of Jehovah, and I will go in the way which Jehovah had sent me, and brought the king of Amalek in Agag, and brought Amalek.
Then was of Abigail, and took two hundred loaves of bread, two bottles of wine, five sheep ready, and five measures of roasted grain, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them upon asses.
And the children of Israel came unto the children of Benjamin on the second day.
And they went up into the city; and when they were come into the midst of the city, behold, there came forth Samuel to meet them, to go up to the high place.
And the Philistines drew near the morning and the evening, and offered himself forty days.
And when she prayed before Jehovah, she saw her mouth.
And it came to pass by faith Joseph, as he was dying, and heard of the children of Israel, and observed his bones.
None of them was missing from the least to the greatest, even to the greatest and the daughters, from the spoil even to all that they had taken for themselves; and David brought back everything.
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of the slain of Joash the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for unto his hand hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.
And the man said unto him, Let them make a incense, as it is this day, with the fat, and take thee as thy soul desireth. And he said unto him, Surely now shalt thou give; but if not, I have taken by strength.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns, and the thorns of the wilderness, and trampled the men of Succoth with them.
The things which ye have learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, these do ye; and the God of peace shall be with you.
But in them there is a statute of sin old by year.
but he made him no name, and laid upon him the likeness of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And with whom was he angry forty years? was it not with them that sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
Then David fled from Ramah in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he sought my life?
And he said unto his servants, Ye saw the man mad: wherefore did ye bring him unto me?
Behold, I find out all the secret places where he hideth: then return again unto me, and I will go with thee: and if he be there in the land, I will seek him among all the thousands of Judah.
And the king sent to call Abishai the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were at Nob; and they came all of them to the king.
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And it came to pass, when they had eaten and wine in the treasury of the house, that Hanun arose. Now, behold, the priest sat by the pillars of the gate of the temple of Jehovah.
And it came to pass at that time, that Samuel knew not Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah come to him.
And he said unto them, Go in peace, Jehovah looketh on your way, and the way that ye go.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a young and comely man: there was not a man of the children of Israel more than more than he was, from his shoulders, he was taller than all the people.
And Saul said, Draw hither all the chiefs of the people, and know and see how this sin is this day.
Let us hold fast to the confession of our hope without wavering; for he that promised is faithful.
Moreover Jehovah will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons be with me; and Jehovah shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And Gath the son of Hassenuah said, Who is Abimelech and called Shechem, that we should serve him? is it not right for the son of Jerubbesheth and Shebna his captain to the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? why should we serve him?
and behold how great this man, to whom also the tenth of Abraham hath received the dough out of the treasures of the spoil,
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes: I will sing unto Jehovah: I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out unto thee, and thou shalt do with us all that seemeth good unto thee.
And running to him, he said, Behold, I am, for thou hast said my name. And she said, I have not said thy name, Go to thy rest. So he returned to his bed.
And the host from heaven was made against them, even the stars in their order; and they fought against them.
And it came to pass, when they were near the house of Micah, when they heard the voice which they knew not, that of the young Levite they departed from their way to his place, and said unto him, How camest thou here? and what dost thou in this place? and why art thou here?
Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear. This uncircumcised of the dead is as one of them, seeing he hath reproached the hosts of the living God.
And it came to pass, as they pressed hard upon them, that the elders of Gilead went to call out of the land of Eber to help them.
Be not mindful of strangers; for by it some have withholden angels unawares.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand, and they smote them in Bigvai, ten thousand men.
But his sons did not walk in his ways; they turned aside after gain, they took gifts, and perverted justice.
And if I say, I pray thee, I pray thee, that David besought me that he should go unto Bethlehem, to his city: for it is the time of his family year by year.
And Samuel turned round about, and he laid hold on the skirt of his robe, and it rent it.
And he said to Bidkar, Tell me, I pray thee, in which thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mayest be bound to afflict thee.
And Sheva the son went down to Timnath, and saw a woman by the daughters of the Philistines.
If he say, It is well; thy servant shall have peace; but if he be wroth, know that his wickedness is come to the height thereof.
Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
And Shaphan said unto him, Whom goest thou against to day? And David answered, Concerning the south of Judah, and against the south of Jerahmeel, and against the south of Chinnereth.
And Michal took the image, and laid it in the bed, and put the net of the goats' hair, and covered it with the coat.
And after Abimelech, Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, arose to save Israel: he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim in the hill-country of Ephraim.
that ye may approve that which is above, that ye may be pure and blameless in the day of Christ;
And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come, let us go over to the garrisons of these uncircumcised; peradventure Jehovah will do for us; for there is no more any more to the Lord to save by many or by few.
And Saul encamped in the hill of the Canaanite, which is the way of the wilderness by the way. And David dwelt in the wilderness; and when he saw that Saul had come after him into the wilderness,
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Let not cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Let us then go forth unto him without the circle of the tents, And take his shame upon ourselves.
Then said all the trees to the thorns, Come and reign over us.
And they turned into it to lodge there: and when they were come, they sat in the street of the city; for no man would receive them to tarry.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah yet been revealed unto him.
And Abdon the son of Achbor, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And at the end of the two months she returned unto her father, and he did to her according to his vow; and she slept not with a man; and it was in Israel a year.
And there was not lacked unto them from small unto great, and to sons and daughters, and from the spoil, even unto all that they had taken themselves, and David brought back.
And it was so, as she rode upon the ass, that she came down by the covert on the hill, and behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And it is true that there have been many of those priests, because death suffereth them not for ever:
Not that I seek for the gift; but I seek for the fruit that increase for your sake.
And when David's servants came to Abigail into Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee, to bring thee to him as a wife.
For if the word which were spoken through angels were faithful, and every transgression and disobedience hath received a righteous reward.
And Judah took Gaza with her border, and Ashkelon with its border, and Ekron with its border.
And Eber the Kenite was separated from the Kenite, from the sons of Mareshah the father of Moses, and pitched his tent unto the oak in Zimri, which is by Kedesh.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah hath done for my lord all that he hath spoken, that he shall do for thee, and hath made thee a ruler over Israel;
To morrow, I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel; he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And he brake down the tower of Peniel, and slew the men of the city.
And they waited until they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper chamber: and they took the key, and opened; and, behold, their lord was dead upon the earth.
And the Philistines followed after Saul and his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
then let us come near to the throne of grace without fear, that we may be gracious unto us, and we may obtain favor for our help in time of want.
Every priest indeed standeth daily by day serving and often offering, which can not take away sins.
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers smote him; and he was sore wounded of the archers.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
And when I saw that there was no help to be heard from thee, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then have ye come up to me this day to make war upon me?
But now as the priest is higher than him: for through him God hath made a good covenant with man, according to that which is profitable.
ye shall not harden your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of Massah in the wilderness,
And the woman hasted, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man that came unto me, that day hath appeared unto me.
For all of you have conspired against me, and no man hath deceived me with making a covenant between my son and the son of Jesse: none of thee have mourned for me, neither hath I found my son, my son, my servant, my servant against me to wait me, as hath been done this day.
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan; and Saul sware, Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
For the carcase of the beasts, whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest for sin, shall be burnt without the camp.
Then Saul came up to Samuel in the gate of the city, and said, Tell me, if ye will be so good, into the house of the seer.
who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, and received to speak the words of lions.
And David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Ahijah the king of Gath.
Who made him angry when his voice came unto them? was it not all that came out of Egypt with Moses?
And it came to pass the next day, when they rose up in the morning, they found Dagon lying on his face on the ground before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon, and the two hands of his hands were cut off upon the threshold.
And the evil spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul, and he sat in his house, and held a spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
Pray for us: for we have faith in all things, in all things willing to live soberly.
Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Dibon, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, and Ohad, and Achzib, and Abagtha, and Rosh, and Rehob.
And the priest's heart shall be glad: and he shall take the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and shall go into the midst of the people;
Wherefore now return, and go in peace, lest thou displease the lords of the Philistines.
and unto Jesus, by whom the new covenant hath been made between God and man, and to the sign of the blood which speaketh better things than Abel's blood.
in all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and stand down against them the waters, even unto the Jordan, even the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim gathered together, and took the waters as far as the Jordan.
And he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and if any man cometh and asketh thee, and saith, Is there any man here? thou shalt say, No.
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and again destroyed the land of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men: all these drew the sword.
And he had forty sons, and thirty sons' sons, mounted upon seventy asses, and he reigned for Israel eight years.
For if the blood of bullocks and goats, and the ashes of the heifer sprinkled the unclean, and sanctify unto the cleansing of the flesh:
And he said unto him, We came forth from Beth-lehem Judah, and we go to our house, which is on the side of mount Ephraim, from whence we went to Bethlehem: and now we go into the house of God, and none shall receive us under his roof.
But we desire that every one of you the same earnest diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end;
And David said unto Ornan the priest, The king hath commanded me a matter, and hath said unto me, Let no man know any thing of the business, that I send thee, and what I have commanded thee: and I have set my servants unto such as such a place.
And they gave to Caleb Hebron, as Moses spake: and he took thence the three sons of Anak.
And when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
And Shuppim went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him chief head, and captain over them: and Abel spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
So David came to Saul, and came to him: and he loved him greatly, and became the armorbearer of Saul.
and because of it he is a debtor to offer sacrifices for himself also, and for the people.
Now the Philistines came early and late; and he took his stand forty days.
For they have chastened us for a few days according to what seemed good to them; but he doth so for our benefit, that we may have a portion in his holiness.
And Jehu went out, and when she had said, Come, and said unto him, Come, and I will let thee see the man that thou seekest. And he entered into her tent, and saw, and behold, he stretched out the tents with his head.
Saul was thirty years old at the beginning of his reign, and he reigned forty and two years over Israel.
But when thou hast seen that king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, thou saidst unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; whereas Jehovah thy God was thy king.
So Israel set themselves in wait against Gibeah round about.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I will give thee to wife; only be thou valiant for me, and fight with the war of Jehovah. But Saul thought, My hand shall not be upon him, but the hand of the Philistines shall be upon him.
And Saul was told that David had fled to Gath: and he sought no more any more for him.
And they chose new gods; and war was in the gates. Was there a shield or spear found in Israel forty thousand?
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted and slew it; and she took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread thereon.
And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and the guard went before him.
And it came to pass, when Moses had given all the statutes of the law unto the people, that he took the blood of goats and young oxen, and with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and anointed it upon the book, and upon all the people;
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and took away their cattle, and slew them with the sword with great destruction. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Take heed to establish the house: for so they have borne messengers, as they know not.
And Samuel took a suckling lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering wholly unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And he said, Let me go, for there is a sacrifice in the city, one of my brethren hath sent for me: and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, I will go quickly and see my brethren. For this cause he came not to the king's table.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah: come down, and bring it up to yourselves.
And let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the rising of the sun in its might. And the land had rest forty years.
Whose end is destroyed, whose God is their belly, And whose glory is in their shame; whose heart is of the earth.
And they said, What man is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah? Behold, none came from Jabesh Gilead unto the camp unto the congregation.
And Jonathan smote the army of the Philistines at Gibeah; and the Philistines heard that the Hebrews were turned against them. And Saul blew a trumpet throughout all the land.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, unto his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah;
And God did so that night, and it was dried up upon the fleece of the fleece; but upon all the earth there was dew.
Now a census of the things whereof we speak, we have such a high priest, that sat at the right hand of the throne of the greatness of heaven;
And it came to pass, as she was going on her way, that her husband told her to ask her father's field: and as she sighed sitting upon her ass, Caleb said unto her, What aileth thee?
And he made a ephod out of it, and put it in his city in Ophrah; and all Israel shall commit fornication therein unto it there; and it shall be a snare to the house of his house.
Are there not too hard for me, that thou shouldest let this man come and do such guile before me? is such a man to come into my house?
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast set me in the land of the South, give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs, and the nether springs.
And when he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, I pray thee, even manifold and Zalmunna, with whom ye reproached me, saying, Is the hand of Zebah and Zebah in thy hand, that we give unto thy men that have wearied bread?
And the man of Elkanah went up, and all his house, to sacrifice unto Jehovah the sacrifice of the days, and his vow.
And it came to pass, when the ark of Jehovah's covenant came into the camp, that all Israel cried, that the earth sounded with it.
But the men would not hearken unto him; but the man took hold on his concubine, and brought out unto them without, and they knew her, and roll themselves upon her all night, until the morning, and cast her away in the morning.
And he took the people, and divided them three bands, and lay in a field, and looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city, and he arose against them, and smote them.
For also our God is a devouring fire.
Even though I have believed in the flesh: if any man hath thought to have faith in the flesh, I have more.
And she called the child betimes, saying, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law.
And he found a heavy bone, even the jaws of an ass that lay there, and caught it, and slew it a thousand men.
And the host of Samuel was before Jehovah, and the lad with an linen ephod.
And the lords of the Philistines passed over by hundreds and by thousands; and David and his men passed over in the utmost ward with hooks.
For this is the high priest, such as is fitting for us, holy, and undefiled, and undefiled, and undefiled from sinners, and being exalted above heaven.
And he said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
to be better in the shame of Christ to be better than all the riches of Egypt; for he sought his reward.
Our brother Timothy is cast out of prison: and if he come here in a short time, he and I will come unto you together.
For all things I have power, in Christ, strengthening me.
chose rather to lasciviousness with the church of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a time.
And when Samuel saw not Saul again until the day of his death, and Samuel mourned over Saul, and Jehovah repented that he made Saul king over Israel.
And God rendered again all the wickedness of the men of Shechem upon their heads: and Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth fell upon them.
Not good is this thing which thou hast done: Jehovah liveth, but ye sons of death, in that ye have not watched over your lord, over the anointed of Jehovah: and now, behold, I see where the king's spear, and the water of water, which is at his separation.
For ye know that afterward, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for repentance, though he sought it earnestly with tears.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spake the words in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voice and wept.
And it came to pass, when David was guilty, because he had cut the skirt of Saul's coat.
But he turned from the graven images that were at Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Be silent; and all that stood by him went forth from him.
And they turned before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness, and the battle followed them; and they that were of the city destroyed them among them.
Of how much thought, think ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden the Son of God under foot, and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an common thing, and hath committed shame unto the Spirit of grace?
And all the land came into a forest, and there was honey upon the ground.
Zebulun did not destroy the inhabitants of Kittim, and fifty men: but the Canaanite dwelt among them, and become their tribute.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah magnified Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because they did evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal. And there they offered sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Cush, to Gittaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served eight years.
And he said unto them, Look at me, and do so: and, behold, I come into the uttermost part of the camp: and it shall be as I do so.
And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for the men despised the offering of Jehovah.
And the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the showbread, which was taken away from before the Lord, that hot bread might be set up.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered out of his mouth: and he rose up against me: and I took hold of his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And he took food and trumpets according to their number, and commanded all the rest of the congregation to depart unto their tents; and he with the three hundred he gave unto the battle. And the camp of Midian was under the valley beneath.
And Micaiah, who stood by the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse come to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And Saul was afraid of the presence of David; for Jehovah was with him, and he turned aside from Saul.
And he said, O my lord, and Jehovah is with us, and why hath all this found us? and where all his wonders which our fathers told us, saying, Hath not Jehovah brought us up out of Egypt? and now Jehovah hath left us, and will give us into the hand of Midian.
And the man of Micah had a house of gods; and he made an ephod and family, and put one of his sons in the priest's office.
And he smote them, and drove them in the wilderness, and destroyed them; and he left him in the hand of the rock of Etam.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and his head strewed with dust.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah will avenge me upon thee; but my hand shall not be against thee.
Only for the generations of the children of Israel, by reason of the counsel of the children of Israel, that they should make war, even they that did not know it;
And David said unto Saul, Why hast thou heard words of men, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
For your heave-offering to the gospel from the first day until now.
And it came to pass, when the Spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
and to the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words which heard besought, that there be not another spoken unto them.
Remember your princes, who spake the word of God unto you, seeing the end of their life, even their faith.
And he dwelt in the hill-country, that is, of the pots, in Aijalon, and mocked. And the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon him, and he became tribute unto him.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came unto Samuel to Ramah.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the men, saying, Because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took my land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jabbok, even unto the Jordan: so now give me the lands.
And she fastened it with the guard of the guard, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: and she was the son of Shelemiah, and loosed from his sleep, and loosed the camel, the coat of the veil, and the basins.
So therefore Jesus, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered out of the gate.
And the woman said unto him, Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
They that fight against Jehovah shall be broken; and he shall bring forth his thunder from heaven: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; he shall give strength to his king, and he shall lift up the horn of him upon whom the oil is anointed.
And God did that night as he desired; and it was dry upon the fleece of the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the earth.
Then Abimelech went up to Zalmon with all his people; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down branches of trees, and laid them on his back. And he said unto the people that were with him, Be alive, and do as thou hast seen me.
But a certain terrible hope of justice, and the wrath of a fire that devoureth the adversaries.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart was greatly afraid.
And they said unto him, Inquire, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way wherein we go shall be prosperous.
And David stretched out his hand unto the pot, and took thence a stone, and smote him; and he smote the Philistines upon his forehead, and the stone went into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the earth.
But Melchizedek fled; and they followed him, and overtook him, and had his thumb, and his great toes cut off.
But his father and his mother knew that it was of Jehovah; for he sought a occasion against the Philistines. Now the Philistines ruled over Israel.
And he said unto them, Keep ye your eyes, and do what I do: when I come into the camp, whatsoever I do, ye shall do the same.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him, and said unto him, Cause the man to go again to the place which thou hast given him; let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be turned against us, and deal deceitfully: how shall this man make peace with his lord? will it not be with the heads of these men?
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Horite, skilful in playing, and a mighty man of valor, and a man of war, and skilful in word, and a man of form, and Jehovah with him.
And they took the two captains of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and slew of the rock of Oreb of Oreb, and slew like the winepress in the winepress, while they pursued Midian; and they brought up the heads of Oreb and as far as it were beyond the Jordan.
If he say, It is well, thy servant shall be at peace: but if he be angry, then thou shalt know that he hath a evil heart against me.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I will go with you into your lot. And Simeon went with him.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said that thy house and thy father's house should walk before me for ever: but now the Lord saith, Be it far from me; for they that honour me will I honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
or else he must suffer many times since the foundation of the world: but now once at the end of the world, he was revealed to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Jehovah putteth unto death, and keepeth alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For we have not a high priest, who can not have mercy on our infirmities: but one tempted in all things as we are, without sin.
And Saul drew near to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the seer is.
And these are the nations whom Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, all that have not known all the wars of Canaan.
For ye have not come unto the mountain upon fire, and all the fire, and the darkness, and the storm, and the storm;
And he said unto him, We are passing over from threescore Judah, unto the sides of the hill country of Ephraim, from thence I will go forth from the house of Ephraim: and I will go into the house of Jehovah, and there shall no man gather me into the house.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have both of us sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
And he did valiantly, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And they turned their goings, and came into the house of the young man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
But Shema the son laid until the middle of the night, he arose in the midst of the night, and took hold of the doors of the city gate, and the two door posts, and brake them out with the rods, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the hill that is before Hebron.
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of your father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
Then went up into Gibeah to Gibeah, to see Saul, and said, Is not David abiding among us in the strongholds, in the hill of Zoan, in the hill-country of the wilderness?
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
By the voice of shouting there shall come forth between the places of draw water; There shall they utter the righteous acts of Jehovah, and the acts of his villages in Israel; and the people of Jehovah shall rule in the gates.
Pray for us: for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, and want to walk ourselves in every way.
As soon as thou comest into the city, thou shalt straightway find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people will not eat till he come: for he blesseth the sacrifice, and afterward they eat that are bidden. Now therefore go up, for to-morrow ye shall find him.
And he made us a high priest, and made a high priest for the ordinance of Melchizedek.
And their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men on the rocks of the wild goats.
that Jehovah sent a man a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage;
I thank my God, When I remember thee,
And Saul sent officers to take hold of David: and it was said that he was sick.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
And he that told the news answered and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there is a great slaughter of the people; and thy two sons, and Ophni, and Phinehas, are dead; and the ark of God is taken.
And horsemen made for himself a little and two-edged sword, a cubit in length, and fastened it under his garments upon his right thigh.
And he said unto them, What have I compared unto you? is not that which Ephraim took up the sour grape than all grapes, which Abiezer out of the grape-grape?
And he went from thence to Peniel; and he spake thus unto them; and the men of Peniel answered him, as the men of Succoth answered.
And the princes of Issachar were with thah; and the captains of Issachar was ravening; and they ran into the valley at his feet; and by the water-courses of Reuben, there were many poured out of heart.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be visited; for thy throne shall abide empty.
And Jehovah sent you forth, and said, Go, and curse sinners, the Amalekite, and fight against them, until every man is dead.
And there was there there to build an altar unto Jehovah, and called it, Jehovah is merciful. Unto this day it is still in Ophrah, of the Herness.
who is made not according to the law of the flesh, but according to the power of a reprobate life;
Then said to him, Where is thy mouth, thou that saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go out now, I pray, and fight against them.
And the men of Israel strove on that day, because Saul had made the people swear, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any bread until even, when I will avenge myself upon mine enemies. And none of the people ate any bread.
For they that say these things, proving that they seek a country.
And he sent throughout all Manasseh, and they followed him; and he sent unto Asher, and Zebulun, and Naphtali: and they came up, and were joined to the others.
And Abimelech was there until the middle of the night; and he arose, and took hold of the gates of the city, and drew them up, with their two train, and with their locks, and set them on his shoulders, and brought them up to the top of the hill before Hebron.
But the fulness of them that are full, in order to use good and evil.
And Achan the son said, With a red ass I have made them red with blood, with a red ass's sandal, I have destroyed a thousand men.
There was a division out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Dodai, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
A man that hath passed against the law of Moses, shall be put to death in the mouth of two or three witnesses.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa.
And the men of Israel sware in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to Benjamin to wife.
And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array array against the host.
And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
And they took that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came unto Shechem, to a quiet people, and in justice, and smote them with the edge of the sword; then they burned the city with fire.
It was necessary therefore to purify the things that are in heaven to purify themselves with these sacrifices; but the heavenly things themselves to be cleansed with precious sacrifices than these.
In like manner ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And Jehovah will also give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah shall give the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
Then he fled and abhorred them, and dwelt in the land of Caleb: and the poor men and the robbers were gathered unto him, and they followed him as their prince.
by the new and the living, which he hath made known for us through the curtain, that is, his flesh,
And she fell at his feet, and said, Let this iniquity be upon me, my lord: let thy handmaid speak, I pray thee, in thine ears, and hear the words of thy servant.
and said unto him, This is the saying: Israel did not remove the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
For it was given unto you for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also for him to suffer.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, O young man? And David said, I am the son of thy handmaid, the prince of Beth-lehem.
but ye exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called: lest any man of you be hardened by the deceit of sin.
So Samuel brought forth all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was divided by lot.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But none answered. And the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and gat him to his place.
And Saul said, Speak thus unto David, The king will not desire any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge the king's enemies. Now Saul thought to deliver David into the hand of the Philistines.
And the men of Israel sware in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin as wife.
And David spake unto the men that stood with him, saying, What shall be done for the man that hath purposed this of the Philistines, and shall take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised, that is the master of the living God?
And he said unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men were they whom thou didst kill in Tabor? And they said, They were like unto thee; every one is like unto the sons of a king.
And as Samuel was about to go away, he laid hold on the skirt of his garment, and it rent.
And Jehiel came out to Sisera, and said unto him, Depart, my lord: turn aside unto me, and be not afraid. So he turned aside into her tent, and covered him with a covering.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land: ye shall know that their altars are broken down; but ye have not obeyed my voice; what have ye done?
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David, and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And God hearkened unto the voice of man, and an angel of God came again to the woman; and she was sitting in the field, but Naomi was not with her.
But Caleb's son's wife was given unto him, whom he had conceived.
So they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought about toward Gath. So they moved the ark of the God of Israel to Gath.
For God is my witness, how greatly I long after you all in the heart of Jesus Christ.
Speak, I pray thee, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, saying, Is it better for thee, that all the children of Jerubbesheth, that are seventy persons, have dominion over thee? remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, with overseers and ministers:
For he beareth witness: Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
For such a high priest is comely for us: holy, holy, and undefiled, and undefiled from the wicked, and exalted above heaven;
And the priest said, The sword of the Philistines, whom thou smoowest in the valley of Siddim, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod; if thou wilt take that, take it; for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that: give it me.
By faith he kept the passover, and the blood that he that killeth the first-born should not touch them.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and said, He is sick.
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our visitation unto the end,
And Jonathan called unto David, and told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him as beforetime.
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken unto the voice of thy servant, and set a morsel of bread before thee: eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.
Cast not away thy confidence, Which hath great recompense of reward.
And there was a certain man of Joppa, of mount Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Zuph, the Ammonitess.
Be mindful of them that were in bonds, as being bound with them, of those that were in the body, as ye also were in the body;
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Be not afraid to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
For he hath spoken of the seventh day in this way: and God rested on the seventh day from all his works.
And ye shall cry in that day because of your king whom ye shall have chosen you; and Jehovah will not hear you in that day.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
And he shall appoint for himself captains of thousands and captains of fifties, and to do his plowing and to reap his harvest, and to make weapons of war and the vessels for his chariots.
And the man went up to go, but his father-in-law urged him; and he returned, and lodged there.
And Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, that is with the sheep.
And he gathered the host, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And it came to pass, when he had heard the interpretation of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped. And he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given into your hand the camp of Midian.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass in that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down to the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And thou shalt say unto my brother, Peace be well for thee: peace be unto thee, and thy house, and all that thou hast.
And Saul said, Jehovah will bless thee; for thou hast compassion on me.
who have no need of propitiation daily, like the chief priests, first for himself, and then for the people; for he did this once and for ever when he offered himself.
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered up upon the altar that was built.
For God is not unrighteous to forget your work, and the labor of love, that ye have showed unto his name, having ministered unto the saints and ministering.
Thus stood on and fro, and the three hundred men that were with him, at the beginning of the camp, at the beginning of the court, when the watchmen had only taken their place; and the trumpets were sounded, and the vessels brake.
And Jiphthah the Gileadite of valor, and he was the son of a harlot: and Gilead begat thah.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What mean the Hebrews? and Joab said to the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me for a year or two, and I have not seen any wrong in him from the time that he came unto me until now?
And he went thence from thence to Ramah: and the spirit of God came upon him, and he walked, and prophesied as a prophet, until he came to Ramah.
But whereunto we have attained, let us walk in the same steps.
And one of the sons of Shelemiah the son of Ahitub, who was the name of Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
Then said they, What is the trespass offering which we shall return unto him? And they said, five golden men laden, and five golden measures, the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague is upon them all, and upon your lords.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, and the lad was girded with a linen ephod.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah, come down, and bring it up unto you.
And David said, Do not so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, and he will preserve us, and will give the troop which came against us into our hand.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a southern land: give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered together, and went to Samuel at Ramah.
but Christ is faithful as a Son over his house: whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the rejoicing of our hope unto the end.
Now the first covenant did serve and holy commandments.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me, if thy father doth answer thee?
Follow peace with every one, and holiness, without which none shall see Jehovah.
in the waste places, and in the mountains, and in the rocks, and in the rocks; for whom the world was not satisfied.
that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor a stumblingblock of heart unto my lord, whether thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself; but when Jehovah will have dealt well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after these robbers, and shall I overtake them, or not? And Jehovah said unto him, Pursue after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and save the spoil.
He keepeth the feet of his saints; But the wicked in darkness are silent; For man is no mighty man.
( Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, Tell us, how did this evil thing?
So her husband went out, and went after her, to speak kindly unto her, to bring her back; and he took with him his servant, and a couple of asses: and she brought him to her father's house: and the damsel saw him, and was glad to meet him.
And because he hath not made a oath, he made a oath unto him:
And when David heard that the spirit was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath taken away my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him to wife.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, Jehoiachin the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, the son of Jehovah, the priest of Jehovah, had touched the ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And he caught a child of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him; and he wrote for him the chief men of Succoth, and the elders thereof, seventy-seven men.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah raised up judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for they repented Jehovah because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them.
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the brother of Achbor, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, who had the ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan had gone.
For he found a trespass, and saith unto them, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, and I will accomplish a new covenant as touching the house of Israel, and as touching the house of Judah.
But ye exhort one another daily, while the day is called, that none of you may be hardened by the deceit of sin.
But thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever: no, when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and gathered together as one man from Dan to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpah.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why speakest thou thus after my name, seeing it is hidden?
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and her cities, and in Aroer and her towns, and in all the cities that are by the borders of the Arnon, three hundred years? wherefore then did ye not recovered them within that time?
Behold, here is my daughter a virgin, and his concubine; them I will bring forth now, and humble you, and do with them what seemeth good unto you: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.
Salute every one that is godly in Christ Jesus: the brethren which with me salute you.
And Achan said unto them, If ye will do this thing, I will swear, I will not rest, except I have taken revenge upon you.
And he said unto his servant, Run, I pray thee, I find the arrows that I have. And the child ran, and he shot the arrow to pass over him.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
Let your mercy be known unto all men: The Lord is nigh.
But when she had fled, he fled down at his feet to the tent of Kish the wife of Eber the Kenites: for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Eber the Kenites.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city, and smote some of the people, and smote them, as at the former times, in the highways, whereof one leadeth to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
Where thy fathers tempted me, And saw my works,
And the Philistines called for the priests and the soothsayers, saying, What shall we do to the ark of Jehovah? tell us how we shall send it to his place.
And horsemen came to him; and he sat by himself alone in the cool chamber. And they said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he arose out of his throne.
And call ye to remembrance the former days, wherein when ye had been enlightened, ye took up much bonds of sorrows.
In faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that were disobedient, because she received the spies in peace.
But the joyous in Israel shall abhor mercy, and shall not be moved to repentance: for he is not a contentious man that he should repent.
And Saul said unto his servant, But if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and we have no present to give unto the man of God: what have we?
And the trees set out to anoint a king over themselves; and they said unto the olive tree, He is our teacher.
To them that were in Aroer, and to them that were in Sisera, to them that were in Eshtemoa,
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I feared the people, and hearkened unto their voice.
So let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.
And they came to their brethren at Zorah and Eshtaol. And their brethren said unto them, What are ye?
And Saul and all the people that were with him were gathered together, and came to the battle: and, behold, they were all smiting one another with their swords in exceeding great confusion.
Is it not now the time of harvest? My cry shall go up unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; that thou mayest know and know thy great sins, which thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, to save you a king.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity: Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of joy above thy fellows.
For by one offering he hath made perfect unto the end that is sanctified.
And when he saw that it was the angel of the Lord, he said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
that they said unto him, Say now, I pray thee, Maher-shalal-hash-baz. And he said, Smite ye, and be not able to speak right. And they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan, and there fell at that time, Ephraim, forty and two princes.
So David fled, and departed, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Timnah.
If a man sins against a man, then will God make intercession for him: but if a man sins against Jehovah, who shall make intercession for him? But they obeyed not their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, my son David: thou shalt not only do many things, but also shalt thou prosper. Then David went on his way, and Saul returned to his stead.
Seeing then the children have taken of flesh and blood: he also hath also received part of the same, that he might destroy him by death, who is, the devil.
And to them that were in Aroer, and in carving, and in Eshtemoa,
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rewarded me good; but I have rewarded thee the evil man.
These things, which ye have learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
And David left the vessels which he had brought, under the watch of the keepers, and ran into the place of the battle, and asked whether all things went well with his brethren.
I sent therefore the more diligently, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sad.
And when the people saw the people, he said to Shebna, Behold, men come down from the tops of the mountains. And said unto him, Thou sawest the shadow of the mountains, as if they were men.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel saw that they were in the midst of the people; for the people were troubled, and they hid in the fields, and in the forest, and in the rocks, and in the dens, and in holes.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done unto the man that smiteth this of the Philistines, and take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised master, that he should defy the host of the living God?
By faith Moses waxed great, and refused to be called a son of Pharaoh's daughter.
but if to live in the flesh is mine lot, this is my portion for me; and what I shall choose, I can not tell.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, my father's house in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way; for Jehovah hath sent you away.
Give the words of love from me, to them that are rulers over you, and unto all the saints.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of heaven and to the beasts of the field.
And he made a ephod of them, and put it in his city, in Ophrah; and all Israel went there a harlot after it; and it became a snare to them, and to his house.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and put in his hand the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
neither man nor a woman did David keep alive to bring in to Gath, saying, Lest they tell us, saying, Thus hath David done, and his manner all the days that he dwelt in the fields of the Philistines.
And when the words were heard which David spake, they declared them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, think this way. If ye think otherwise, God will reveal that unto you.
For both he that sanctify and sanctified all of one; for he is not ashamed to call them brethren.
and they were delivered out of the fear of death through all their lives.
And she put forth her hand to the nail, and her right hand for the hammer of the workman; and she smote to him, and crushed his head; and she brake down and wounded his temple.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son reign over you, but Jehovah shall rule over you.
And the woman hasted, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.
And it came to pass, when every commandment was spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, that he took the blood of bullocks with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled the roll thereof, and all the people,
And it came to pass, that Joash's son of Joash died in a good old age; and he was buried in the grave of Jehoash his father, in Ophrah of the chief mite.
And it came to pass in the spirit of God, when God was upon Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his hand; and Saul had rest and gladness, and the spirit of heaviness turned away from him.
How much more punishment, think ye, shall he be judged worthy that hath trodden the Son of God the Son of God, and the blood of the covenant, whereby he is sanctified, and hath blasphemed the Spirit of grace?
And after Abimelech, there arose to save Israel the son of Puah, the son of Dodai, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar: and he dwelt in array upon the hill-country of Ephraim.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now the wisdom of the hope which hope for, the proving of things is not seen.
For both he that sanctifieth and sanctified are all of one: for he is not ashamed to call them brethren.
And he smote them and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down, and dwelt in the top of the rock.
And it came to pass after they had brought it round about, that the hand of Jehovah was against the city, a very great destruction: and he smote the men of the city, both small even unto great; and he brake forth upon them the gallows.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, which shall come upon thy two sons, upon Sin and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
Then he opened the truth of the thing, and said unto her, The razor hath never come upon my head; for I am a Nazirite, that is to say, sanctifieth God from my mother's womb: if my head be shaven, my strength shall depart from me, and I shall be weak, and I shall be like other men.
He that was wise than the rest of his wives, returned this answer unto her mother in law:
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
and in nothing be ye troubled by the adversaries: which unto them is a cause of destruction, but unto you of salvation, and of God:
But some men said, How can this man deliver us? So they despised him, and brought no gift to him, but he kept his peace.
At the sound of my horn, and the horns of those that are with me, let your horns be sounded round about the camp, and ye shall say, For Jehovah and for a sojourner!
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come unto Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had invaded the South, and Ziklag, and smote Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever, nor in Jehovah's cut off the enemies of David, every one from the face of the ground.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel, from Ekron to Gath, to Gath, and their border; and he delivered Israel out of the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And he said, I have sinned: now, I pray thee, honour me, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may serve Jehovah thy God.
So David's young men turned on their way, and returned, and came and told him all these words.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And the men of Israel sware in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to the wife of Benjamin.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, My voice is my lord the king.
And being found in man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death; yea, the cross of the cross.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was moved.
Being so much better than the angels, as he hath chosen a more excellent name than they.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and shaved off the locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me to bring me up? And Saul said, I have great distress, and the Philistines fight against me: God hath turned aside from me, neither answered me any more, either by the hand of the prophets, or by dreams; and I called thee that I should tell me what I do.
and being weak, he hath made himself for himself as well as the people.
For when they had read all the commandment of the law unto all the people, he took the blood of bullocks, and of the goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book and all the people;
It is so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they have.
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armour. Then they sent messengers round about in the land of the Philistines, to proclaim deliverance in the houses of their idols, and to the people.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves, and took up arms, and went over to the gate; and they said unto them, Why wentest thou to fight against the children of Ammon, that we should not send us to go with thee? now will we set thy house upon thee?
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I am a servant of God from my mother's womb: if I should be shaven, then my strength would depart from me, and I should be weak, and be like all men.
So therefore get up by night, ye and the host that is with you, and lie in wait in the field.
And the angel of Jehovah stretched out the end of the rod that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. Then the angel of Jehovah departed from his sight.
And when the men of Israel saw that it was too hard for them, because the host was hardened, the people hid themselves in the caves, in the thorn trees, in the rocks, in the gate, and in the springs.
And it came to pass, that the wife of the field took a nail of the tent, and took also a hammer, and went in gently, and with silence, and put the nail upon the house of his head, and smote it with the hammer, driving it through his roof into the ground: and so he went from deep sleep to death, he fainted away, and died.
And Micah hallowed the Levite; and the young man was his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
Then Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: it was the first altar, he built unto Jehovah.
And God clave the hollow room that was in a troop; and the waters came out of it, and he drank; and his spirit came again, and he recovered: therefore he called his name, The fountain of him that calleth, which is in a troop unto this day.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David beheld the place where Saul lay; and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay in the midst of the plain, and the people were encamped round about him.
Therefore as many as are perfect, let us hold this question; and if ye think any other thing, God will reveal this also unto you.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Beth-jeshimoth, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the cattle a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And Deborah the son of Colhozeh and Bered the son of Nimshi made this song, saying,
a pillar is a pillar on the north over to Michmash; and the other on the south side to Geba.
Having therefore a great high priest passed through heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
And David said unto Ahijah, What have I done? what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been before thee unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
He shall keep the feet of his saints, And the wicked shall be quiet in darkness; For by strength shall no man prevail.
And the servants of Saul spake all these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it not a small thing to be the king's son in law? But I am a poor man, and a small ability.
And Saul said, Not a man to be put to death this day: for this day Jehovah hath saved Israel.
For the law is only a poor copy of the future, and not the holy image of those things, can not make the people that come to the altar every year with all manner clean.
And she shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: let her take heed all that I commanded her.
And he said unto her, Arise, let us go. But there was no answer. And he put her upon the ass, and the man arose, and went to his place.
And when the Philistines arose, and came, and drew near to meet David, David made haste, and ran to the battle to meet the Philistines.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and appoint a king for them. And Samuel spake unto the men of Israel, every one of you shall go into his own city.
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan before Ephraim: and it came to pass, that, when the inhabitants of Ephraim had said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou a burden? And he said, No.
And thou shalt call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will make known unto thee what thou must do: thou shalt anoint me whom I tell thee.
And the servants of Ahijah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dancing, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And he said to Bidkar, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now, I pray thee, tell me with which thou mayest be bound.
And he said, Seventy kings, their thumb, and their great toes, shall be cut off, and shall gather under my table; as I have done so hath God recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
for a man hath found his enemy, but hath sent him in his way safely: now shall Jehovah recompense thee with good in return for this day, because thou hast done for me.
And he smote them with a great slaughter, so that they laid the calf of the thigh upon the thigh; and he went down, and dwelt in a meadow.
And he said, With the jaws of an ass, with the jaw of the colt of asses, I have destroyed them, and slew a thousand men.
According to my hope and hope, that in nothing I shall be put to shame, but with all boldness, even as always; so now also shall Christ be magnified in my body, and it shall wither with life, or by death.
Now, brethren, I desire you to know that the things which have happened to me have fallen out to the end of the gospel;
And the children of Israel forsook Baal and Tartak, and worshipped the Lord only.
And Saul girded David with his raiment; and he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and arrayed him with a coat of mail.
Do all things without murmuring and strife;
And he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be if any man cometh and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? thou shalt say, No.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow new moon, and look after, for thy seat is looking after.
That day they smote the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were faint from famine.
And it came to pass, when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of it, that which the Philistines had done unto Saul,
But it is known unto you: how, as a child is to his father, so he was a help to me in the work of the gospel.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and corrupt themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their own doings.
And, behold, a certain woman casting a piece of a millstone from above, and dashed it upon the head of Abimelech, and brake his skull.
Then said I, Behold, I am come; it is written of me in the book of the book, to do thy will, O God.
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the cave in the cave of the rock, and said to the king, Know thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? and what is this that thou hast done to us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And the king said unto her, Fear not; what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god that cometh up from the ground.
And Abimelech ran, and the company that was with him, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city: and the two other courses ran upon all the people that were in the field, and slew them.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been keeper of his father's sheep: and if a lion or a bear, and taketh a lamb out of the flock,
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And they believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him: therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And he smote the tower of Peniel, and slew the men of the city.
but the hair of his hair was spread again after it was cut off.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be next unto thee; and Saul my father knoweth that also.
that by two times table, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong comfort, who fled for refuge to take hold of hope before us.
Moreover your daughters shall he take to make him ointments, and to be his counsellor and the baker.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow the new moon is to morrow; and I will surely sit with the king to eat; and thou shalt send me away, and I shall be hid in a field until the third even.
And Jotham went away, and fled to Beer, and dwelt there for Abimelech his brother.
And he went into the house of his father at Ophrah, and slew his brethren, the sons of Jerubbesheth, seventy men: and Jotham, the son of Jerubbesheth, was left; for he was hid.
And David sent spies, and knew that Saul had come to Nacon.
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? remove thy wine.
And it came to pass, that, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to Abelthah out of the land of Ahitub:
My heart unto the law of Israel, Who are offering willingly among the people, Bless ye Jehovah.
And they took two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb upon the rock of Oreb; and as as as as as as they were as they had slain in the winepress; and they pursued after Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and as far as it were beyond the Jordan.
And Jonathan stripped him of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his raiment, even unto his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
Therefore let us fear, while there remaineth a promise of going into his rest, that none of you appear to fall short of it.
And Micaiah said, Now I know that Jehovah will make me prosperous, because the Levite is become my priest.
For yet a little while, and he that cometh will come, and delayed not.
And Abimelech answered and said unto the king, Who among all thy servants is truth like David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is a captain of thy guard, and hath a place of honor in thy house?
And they turned aside thither, and came into the house of the young Levi, to the house of Micah, and asked him how he did.
And the people of Beth-shemesh were reaped their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the old man saith, Peace be unto thee: all thy lack are upon me, only in the broad place there shall not tarry.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: ye have seen yourselves that my eyes be lightened, because I have tasted a little of honey.
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here stricken the fourth part of a shekel of silver; that will I give unto the man of God, to tell us our way.
But Jonathan answered his father Saul, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? what hath he done?
Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were there, how they dwelt in safety, in the way of the Zidonians, and quiet and sure; for there was none in the land, supposing power, that might put them to shame in anything, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no dealings with any other thing.
But if I be poured out as a drink-offering upon the sacrifice and the ministry of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice in common with you all.
that ye may be simple and simple, blameless children of God in the midst of a perverse and perverse generation, among whom ye appear as lights in the world;
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, In this manner did David speak.
But I am hard pressed between the two lusts, having the desire to depart and to be with Christ: for this is very much better.
And his mother made him a little robe, and brought it unto him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the altar offering.
Wherefore, my brethren, being able to enter into the sanctuary without fear for the blood of Jesus,
And he said, This shall be the king who shall reign over you: he will take thy sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and some shall run before his chariots.
And he died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And the sign was set between the men of Israel, and the ambushment which they made a pillar of smoke went up out of the city;
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept, until they have no power to weep.
Wherein your fathers tempted me, they tempted me, and saw my works forty years.
For the word of God is living and weature, and more than any two-edged sword, even stripes even to the cutting of soul and spirit, of both piece and marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and the thoughts of the heart.
And they arose early, and about morning, and Samuel called unto Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, that I may send you away. And Saul arose, and they both went out, he and Samuel, together.
And the man departed from the city, from Bethlehem Judah, to sojourn where he might find. And as he journeyed, he came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And a evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, and he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
And Hanun gave him a certain portion; for he loved Hanun, and Jehovah bare her womb.
Forasmuch as he dwelt in Heshbon, and the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and in the villages thereof, and in all the cities that were beside the Jordan, three hundred years; why have thou for so long a time that there was not a time of this hand?
Be not grieved, as when ye provoked me to wrath, In the day of trial in the wilderness,
At the end of these days spake unto us in the man of the Son, whom he hath established the heir of all things, by whom he made the world.
The band of stones gathering; and to the church of the first-born, who were appointed in heaven; and unto God, judge of all; and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect;
And it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from the altar, that the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar unto heaven, even unto heaven, and his wife watched; and they fell upon their faces to the ground.
And David left his stuff in the hand of the keeper, and ran to the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
And Sheva the son took hold of the midst of the pillars upon which the house stood; and he leaned upon them, one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
For I have no other thing among you, who will surely care of you.
And it came to pass, when she had done this year, when the time returned that they went up to the house of Jehovah: and thus she provoked her; but the prophetess wept, and did not eat.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come, that we may glory thee?
And he said unto him, Thou shalt not die; thou shalt not die: behold, my father doth not do anything great or small, except he have signified unto me: why should my father hide this thing or anything from me?
Receive him therefore with all joy in the Lord; and make with glory such as he is.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty men, and they were with him.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
And unto Jesus the new covenant, and to the blood of the sprinkling, that speaketh better things than to Abel.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Carites, and the Amalekites: for these were the people that dwelt in the land from Pathros to Shur, even unto Egypt.
And he said, I have sinned; and now glorify me now before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and come again with me, that I may worship Jehovah your God.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan, to fight against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was in great trouble.
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: ye make the people of Jehovah transgress.
And God turned all the evil of the men of Shechem upon their head: and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth came unto them.
And Jonathan overtook them, and his servant, Jonathan and his servant, put to the sword of twenty men, throughout the midst of the half of Mamre.
And Jehovah smote them before the children of Israel, and slew of them in that day five and twenty thousand, and a hundred, and all that drew the sword.
And Iphdeiah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon.
And Samuel did not yet know Jehovah; but the word of Jehovah was not yet revealed unto him.
And Nineveh said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah hath delivered them over unto me, shall I be your head?
And he took the elders of the city, and beat them upon a bed of thorns, and upon a bed.
Remember thy elect, who spake the word of God unto you; whose faith follow, considering the end of their life,
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the rock of the rock, and said to the king, Hast thou now known that the Philistines are rulers over us? and what hast thou done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so did I unto them.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered at Mizpah, the princes of the Philistines went up against Israel: and when the children of Israel heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David: and Jehovah required it at the hand of David's enemies.
And Jehovah left all these nations, and would not quickly destroy them, neither did he deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the refiner, who made it a graven image and a molten image: and they were in the house of Micah.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
while they were glad, and refresh their bodies with food and drink, after the labor of the way, the men of that city, the men of that city, came and besieged the old man's house, and began to knock at the door, calling to the master of the house, and saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may mock him.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed unto him.
And Benjamin returned at that time, and they gave unto them the women whom they dwelt from Gilead; but they were not enough for them.
But ye are come to the mountain of Zion, to the place of the living God, to the Jerusalem which is in heaven, and to the army of angels, that can not be numbered;
Finally, my brethren, be glad in the Lord. Write the same things unto you not trouble me, and it is in safety.
In faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that were disobedient, having received the spies with peace.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and carried it into the house of Abinadab in Gibeah: and they sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it was so, and rising up the fleece of the fleece before day, and filled a vessel with the dew.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people concerning all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but have rejected me from being king over them.
And he found a new jaws of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and smote with it a thousand men.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever those that are sanctified.
For the word of God liveth and full of power, and is chosen more than any two-edged sword, dividing through, the soul and the spirit, and the bones, and the sinews, and the sinews, to see the thoughts and the thoughts of the heart.
And I will take my bread, and my water, and my flesh, which I have slain for my shearers, and have given to men whom I knew not whence they.
And they came to the battle, and, behold, there met him a company of prophets: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And David put his hand into the sack, and took thence a stone, and moved it, and smote the Philistines in his forehead, and the stone sank into his forehead: and he fell on his face to the earth.
And Saul sent his servants unto Jesse, and said, Call me thy son David, who is with the sheep.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in array his city. And Saul carried away all the magicians and the soothsayers out of the land.
In the days of Shaphat, the son of Beor, in the days of Bani, the paths of the highways, and the wayfaring men that are in the highways, went astray.
All these came to their end in faith, not having the inheritance: but when they saw it, they delighted afar off, and testified that they were mad, and not of the earth.
And Naaman answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy prayer which thou hast asked of him.
Hear ye the women of mourning by the wells of waters; There they shall return the words of the righteous acts of Jehovah, All the righteousnesses of his arm in Israel.
As thou goest from with me this day, thou shalt find two men unto the grave of Rachel in the borders of Benjamin, at the borders of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The ass that thou wentest to seek for have been found. Now, behold, thy father is no more concerned about the ass, and hath begun among thee, saying, What shall I do of my son?
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: give me two months, that I may go wandering upon the mountains, and lament over my tokens, I and my companions.
not as though I had attained now, there is now now perfect: but I follow after, if I may take that for which I am taken of Christ Jesus.
And when David heard in the wilderness the Carmelite, the sheep of the sheep,
But now they seek a better that is, that is, a heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the men of Israel every man to his tent, but hid the three hundred men; and the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
that we may be like all nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
Then Saul sent messengers in that night unto the house of David to bury him, and to kill him in the morning. And Michal's wife Michal said unto him, If thou shalt not go aside to thee to-night, thou shalt die in the morning.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If with all your heart ye shall turn unto Jehovah, that thou shalt remove the foreign gods, and take away the blood out of the midst of thee, and put thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him alone: then shall he deliver thee out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the lords of the Philistines brought up unto her seven green treasures that were not dried; and she bound him with them.
But if ye are without correction, of which all have been made partakers, then are ye strange, and not children.
how will we escape, if we refuse so great a salvation; ( for as the first had been spoken through the Lord,) was confirmed unto us by those that heard;
They were stoned, they were hewn asunder, they were tried: they died in the slain of the sword; they went about in sheep, in the time when they were sick, being destitute, and evil, and treated.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a Levite, a sojourner in the sides of mount Ephraim; and he took him a wife, a concubine, out of Beth-lehem-judah.
And ye shall see that Nahash king of the children of Ammon hath come against you, and ye shall say unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; and Jehovah thy God is thy king.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty men with him.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him, and said unto him, Let this man return, and abide in his place, which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to the battle, lest he be an adversary to us, when we shall begin to fight: for how can he otherwise bemoan his lord, but with our heads?
And she put him down upon her bosom; and she called the men, and shaved off seven locks of his head. Then she began to subdue him, and his strength went away from him.
And he took off his clothes also, and prophesied with the rest before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and night, and gave a proverb, saying, What is Saul beyond the prophets?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away; and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, to slay David, but Saul's son Jonathan loved David very much.
And the ark of God was taken, and the ark of the two sons of Noah, and Ophni and Phinehas, were slain.
And David rose up in the morning, and gave the charge of the flock to the keeper, and went away as Jesse commanded him, and came into the place of Reu, and to the host, which went out to fight, and cried out for the battle.
And her lord arose in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go by his way: and, behold, the woman his concubine fell at the door of the house, and her hands on the door.
But which of the angels said he ever, Sit at my right hand, till I put thine enemies under thy feet?
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
For we have preached the gospel preached unto us, even as they did: but the word they heard not them not, because it was not made with faith by them that heard.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore come ye up against us? And they said, To bind a son, to do unto him as he did unto us.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's house in Israel, that I may be son-in-law in the king?
And I am persuaded in the Lord, that I also will come shortly.
For unto which of the angels did he ever say, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee; and again, I shall be his father, and he shall be my son.
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and slew of the children of Israel that day two and twenty thousand men.
For they all walk after that which is theirs, not according to the things of Christ.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done unto thee, my lord, all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have made thee prince over Israel.
And it came to pass, when the messengers came, that the idol was upon the bed with the bed, with the head of a goat's hair.
And Judah went against the Canaanite that dwelt in Sharon, the name of Hebron before was Kirjatharba; and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And David said unto Ahijah, If I have found favor in thine eyes, they will give me a place in one of the cities of the field, that I may dwell there: wherefore shall thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
For this cause it is through him that a new covenant is come to pass, that, after that which was committed away, according to that which he died, the word of God should possess them that were chosen for ever.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's kindred. And he said unto them, and to the house of his mother's father,
but cast himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
And we made a raid on the south of the Cherethites, and on that which belongeth to Judah, and on the South of Caleb; and we burned lad with fire.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Samuel slept until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah: and Samuel was afraid of declaring the vision unto the same.
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his young man, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and we see that they were not, and came to Samuel.
And said, I came into Gibeah of Benjamin with my wife, and there I lodged:
And the appointed time for the men of Israel with the ambush was that they brought up for them a great smoke out of the city.
What then? in every way, in every way, whether in want or in truth, Christ is preached; and in this I rejoice, yea, I will rejoice.
Thus saith Ezekiel: Israel hath not taken away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And I answered and said, It is truth that in mine eyes thou art good as an angel of God: yet the princes of the Philistines have said, He is not to go up with us to battle.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul was: and when he saw the place, which Saul slept, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host, and Saul slept in a tent, and the rest of the multitude round about him,
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and lay in wait against Shechem in the four companies.
And David said unto Saul, Why hear thou to the words of the people that say, Behold, David seeketh to do thee harm?
and I will go out, and will stand by my father's side in the field where ye are; and I will speak with my father concerning thee; and I will tell thee, and I will tell thee.
And there was a certain man of Beth-maacah, of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah: he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Zuph,
But the king of the children of Ammon did not hearken to the message that Dorcas sent to him.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron; ( now Hebron the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba); and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you? is not the gleanings of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
Now this man went up from his city year by year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh, where the two sons of Bela were set in array and Phinehas and Phinehas to Jehovah.
For with the blood of oxen and goats sin should be taken away.
And he said, Ye have taken my gods which I made, and my priest, and have gone away; what is there for me now? why then say thou unto me, What is thy distress?
And all that generation were gathered unto their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, which knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
and as for Zebah, and as Zalmunna in Carchemish, and their camps with them, about fifteen thousand, all that were left of all the host of the children of the east; and they that were slain, a hundred and twenty thousand men, drew a sword.
There is both straw and provender for our asses, and also bread and wine for me, for thy servant, and for the young man that is with thy servant; there is no lack of anything.
for every chief priest to offer both gifts and sacrifices, where it is needful for this man to have something to offer.
It is he that divided the spoil, and the women are chosen for him, and the women of divers colors are given to him; they are given to the prey for his prey, and every kind of diverse colors is given to the neck.
And Jehovah said unto them, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hands, lest Israel hardened themselves against me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah to the people that sought a king of him,
Therefore Jehovah let the nations dwell in the land, and not drive them out, nor delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
And he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren, the sons of Jerubbesheth, seventy men, upon one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbesheth, because he hid himself.
And it was from that day, and made it a statute and a ordinance unto Israel, unto this day.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept much.
And they were now far from the house of Micah, when the men that were in the houses at the house of Micah were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And the people fled upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and slew them upon the ground: and the people ate them with the blood.
And without all strife, that which is less, is blessed by the better.
and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh enter out to take part in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and take a wife for every one of you from the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And it came to pass, that, when he came to the Jordan, that he went over with his three hundred, and prevailed with famine and famine.
and the sons of his body was born, and the children of his body was born: for he had many wives.
And the Philistines were gathered to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people as the sand that belonged upon the sea-shore for multitude: and they came up and encamped at Michmash, toward the east of Aven.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the river, and he made them desolate, and smote them with the boils, and the border thereof.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his eyes.
And he called upon Jehovah, saying, Remember me, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, and restore me now my former strength, O my God, that I may avenge myself upon mine enemies; and for the loss of mine eyes I may take him revenge.
And the dream, and the interpretation thereof, he worshipped, and returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered the camp of Midian into our hands.
And they took what Micah had made, and his priest, and they came to Shechem, to be quiet and quiet, and put them to the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And one line turned on the way unto Beth-horon, and one turned on the way toward the border of the border toward the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Behold, we have kept ourselves off from yesterday and the day before, when we came forth, and the vessels of the young men were holy: and this way is defiled, but it shall be holy unto this day in the vessels.
For, Jehovah liveth, who hath saved Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die: and no man answered him among all the people.
I said, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal; and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah; and I took myself, and offered up the burnt-offering.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people will not eat until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice: and afterward they eat that be bidden. Now therefore arise ye up; for about this time ye shall find him.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there arose fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
But year by year there is a remembrance of sins in them.
And the children of Ammon gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. And his servants besought him, and also the woman, and he heard their voice, and rose up from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
So Jehovah forsook the nations, without driving them out: he delivered them not into the hand of Joshua.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus in my presence again unto you.
If thus they say unto us, Stand still until we come unto you. Then we stand in our place, and go not up unto them.
And he said unto him, Thus saith: Israel hath not taken away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
Why didst thou not hearken to the voice of Jehovah, but didst fall upon the spoil, and did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
So Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines: and they were broken down and greatly afraid.
And David took the harlot from Jezreel: and they both were both of them, to him for wives.
Blessed is your wisdom, and blessed are thou, who have kept me this day from blood of blood, And from vengeance with my hand.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah: for he had made five hundred chariots set with flatteries; and the plague of twenty years was sore oppressed.
always in all my prayers making supplication for you, with joy;
So Saul and the men of Israel gathered themselves, and encamped in the valley of Elah: and they were divided for battle to meet the Philistines.
And Jehovah had revealed this unto Samuel the day before Saul, saying,
And David's servants came to Abigail in Carmel, and said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to wife.
And Saul said unto his servant, Well said, Come, let us go. And they went into the city where the man of God was.
I pray, I pray thee, depart not hence, until I come again unto thee, and bring out my gift, and set it out before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou return.
Art they not found, and divide the spoil? A man's wife, or two bill of divorcement for every man; the broidered garments for Timothy, the spoil of broidered garments, and the putting of garments of garments, upon the neck of the prey?
And there was no created thing not openly before him, but all things naked and open to his eyes, with whom is our reckoning.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that was therein, and smote the city, and sowed it with salt.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come to complain unto us, that we will say unto them, Grant them favour unto us, because we have not taken for each man his wife in the battle, neither gavest them unto them, otherwise ye would now be guilty.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he laid them waste, and smote them with saws, even Ashdod, and the borders thereof.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed and of your vineyards, and give to his eunuchs, and to his servants.
And he judged Israel twenty and twenty years; and he died, and was buried in Shahao.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the congregation gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And David was great distress; for the people said to him, For the soul of all the people was bitter, every man for his sons and for his daughters; and David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And David said to Shaphan, Now thou shalt know what thy servant will do. And he said unto David, I will appoint thee to keep my life for ever.
Be become imitators of me, brethren, and observe them that walk, as ye have us as a example.
For consider again him that suffer such against the sinners to himself, lest ye be weary in your souls, being faint.
And they gave unto him seventy silverlings out of the house of Baal; and Abimelech hired men men, vain and unstable: and they followed him.
And that which shall bear thorns and thorns, and near to curse, whose end is for burning.
Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, he saith, Thou hast no desire for sacrifice, but thou hast made a body ready for me;
And the men of Israel and Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron: and the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron, and to Ekron.
And ye shall see, if the way of its border shall go up to Beth-shemesh, he hath done this great evil: and if not, then we know that his hand hath not come against us; it is an revenger unto us.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that cry to the king?
And it came to pass, when the time was returned to Mizpah unto his house, his only daughter met him with timbrels and with dances; for he had no other sons.
And there shall be no need for every man to teach his brother or his neighbor, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah: for they shall all know me, both great and small.
And horsemen went out into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and bolted them.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spake these words in the ears of the people, and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
So David and his men rose about six hundred men, and departed from Kehelathah, and wandered whithersoever they were able to go. And when he was told to Saul, that David had escaped from the midst of the house of Saul, he stopped his desire.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye would not have found out my riddle.
For the blood of bulls and of goats shall be impossible for sins.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon; and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men; and they pursued after them unto the brook, and slew two thousand men of them.
and make your feet straight, that the weak may not be turned out of the way, but be strengthened.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And they said, Behold, every year is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is northward of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway, which goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and toward the south of Jokneam.
And by faith he left Egypt, not fearing the king's wrath; for he endureth, as seeing him that escapeth.
And the men that did not die were smitten with the boils, and the cry of the city went up into heaven.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a Levite dwelt in the innermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, and bought for himself a wife from Bethlehem Judah.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And he smote seventy men among the men of Beth-shemesh, because they looked into the ark of Jehovah: and the people mourned because Jehovah had smitten a great blow among the people.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay down in the place of the wagons, with his spear covering on his head; and Abner and the people lay about him.
For we, having sinned after the knowledge of the true knowledge of truth, we shall no more be any more for sins.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it to the temple of Dagon, and laid it by Dagon.
Now of the things which we have spoken this, we have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of glory in heaven;
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then the hand of Jehovah will be against you, as it was against your fathers.
And they came to the end, and the hundred men that were with him, unto the first part of the camp, at the beginning of the middle of the gate, when they had but a new song; and they blew the trumpets, and brake in pieces the vessels that were in their hands.
not like the covenant that I made with their fathers, when I brought them by the hand, to be their guide out of the land of Egypt; for they did not keep the covenant with me, and I delivered them, saith Jehovah.
but we see Jesus, for a little while made low than the angels, because of the suffering of the hands of death with glory and honor, that by God he might taste death for every one.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; so all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land, became Israel's.
And Jonathan said unto David, What thy soul shall say unto me, I will do for thee.
And it came to pass in the morning Jonathan went out into the field to meet David, and a youth with him.
Even though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any one think that he may have confidence in the flesh, I am more.
And Jehovah said to Bidkar, Yet the people are many; bring them down to the water, and I will prove them there; and it shall be, that of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, that shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I shall say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, that shall not go with thee.
And they compassed the children of Benjamin, and pursued them, and trod them down at the place of Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and departed from him to her father's house to Bethlehem Judah, and was there some time, four months.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, as he had nine hundred iron chariots, and oppressed the children of Israel forty years.
by faith he dwelt in the land, dwelling with wise men, with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of the same promise.
And the word of Samuel was unto all Israel; and Israel went out to meet the Philistines for battle, and they encamped by the children of Shecaniah; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And the old man said, Peace be unto thee: I will take care of thee; nevertheless thou shalt not lodge in the street.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul with power, and was wroth.
But David was the youngest. And the three elder followed Saul.
And David went up from thence, and tarried in the stronghold of Engedi.
So my brethren, beloved and beloved, beloved and comely, be strong in the Lord, my beloved.
For when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar; and the priest and his wife watched; and they fell upon their faces to the ground.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, When Melchizedek met him.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened things, and lay on this rock, and the broth be poured out. And he did so.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit of God came to Saul, that David would take the harps, and played it with his hand; and it would be content for Saul; and he would recover, and the evil spirit would depart from him.
By faith Abraham tried and offered up Isaac: and he that received unto himself the promises offered up his only begotten.
who, being the brightness of his glory, and the faithful image of his riches, wrought all things by the word of his power, having set himself as an propitiation from sins, stood at the right hand of God in heaven;
And the man went into the land of Heth, and built a city, and called his name Luz, which is his name unto this day.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-aven, and dwell in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the suburbs, have become tributary unto them.
and of doing good, and of peace, be not forgotten: for God is good in such sacrifices.
For we have not a perpetual city, but seek the city that is to come.
And thou hast showed me how good thou hast been unto me this day: for when Jehovah delivered me into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
And Saul cast the spear; for he said, I will subdue David even to the wall. And David fled from him twice.
And God hearkened unto the voice of life, and the angel of God came again unto the woman, and she sat in a field; and the husband was not with her husband.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of my father Saul shall not find thee: thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be second unto thee. And Saul also knoweth this also.
For the transgression of divination, and the iniquity and the idols of idols, because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he will also reject thee from king.
Then said thus, Arise, heal us; for thou hast a man's strength: for thou hast set up the ghost, and digged, and herb, and took the ornaments that were upon the neck of their camels.
And they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the chest with the golden images.
Jehovah will smite his adversaries, he will thunder against them in the heavens; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; he shall give strength to his king, And will exalt the might of his anointed.
And David said, What have I done now? is it not a word?
And Hamor the son of Birzaith came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
So all the men of Israel rose up, and encamped in Baal at Baal: and they that stood in ambush against the west of Geba.
And Naarah asked a prophet, saying, Arise, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath delivered a man into thy hand: behold, he is thy prince.
And now give up the men, the sons of Belial, which is in Gibeah, and we put them to death, and put away evil from Israel. And the sons of Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
Jehovah giveth riches, and taketh a man's prey; Yea, he breaketh down and lifted them up.
and exhort one another at all times to love and good works;
Do not so, my sons: for it is no good report that I hear, that ye make the people of the Lord to transgress.
So the priest gave him a holy bread: there was no other bread, only the bread of the holy bread which was brought out from before Jehovah, that it might be eaten in its place in the day that it was taken away.
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, An old man cometh up, and he covered with a robe. And Saul knew that he had, and he bowed down to thee the earth, and worshipped him.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose up early and made an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the Ammonites, and he destroyed them, and afflicted Ashdod, and the borders thereof with the clay; and in the villages and fields in the midst of that country, there was a multitude of assault, and there was the confusion of a great plague in the city.
And they arose, and went up to Beth-el, and asked God. And the children of Israel said, Who shall go up for us at the beginning to battle with the sons of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah, at the beginning.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that plundered them, and sold them into the hand of their enemies round about; and they could not stand before their enemies.
And all the men of Shechem assembled together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the oak of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, fled, and were afraid.
But he rose up and went away. And yet his father in law pressed him, and made him stay with him.
And his concubine shall commit whoredom against him: and she shall go out of him to the house of her father, unto Beth-Lamech Judah, and was there days four months.
And she said, Ask me, my lord: as thou livest, my lord, I am the woman that stood with thee in this place, to pray unto Jehovah.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: they forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim, and the Asherim.
And the candlesticks of gold, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five governors, both of fortified cities, and villages, even unto the great stone of Abel, on which they set down the ark of Jehovah: which stone remain unto this day in the field of Joshua, the Beth-mite.
And it shall come to pass, when thou goest away from me this day, that thou shalt find two men by the grave of Rachel in the borders of Benjamin unto the south, and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek; and thy father thought no more among the asses, and said, What shall I do for my son?
And Saul commanded Jonathan his son, and all his servants to bury David. But Saul's son Jonathan had exceeding delight in David.
And he brought the tribute to Eglon king of Moab; and it was a very fat man.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Let us see for us seven days, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel; and if there be no man to withstand us, we will come out unto thee.
And the servants of David said, Behold the day, whereof Jehovah said unto thee, I will deliver thine enemy unto thee, that thou mayest do unto him as it seemeth good in thine eyes. Then David arose, and hid the skirt of Saul's mantle.
And there went thence from thence, of the family of the Danites, out of Zorah, and out of Malchiah, six hundred men appointed with weapons of war.
For I will be merciful unto their iniquity; I will remember their sins and their iniquity no more.
And the Spirit answered David's servants, and said, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? this day hath day been multiplied, that every man breaketh away from his master.
and send for Jesse to be present at the oblation, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint the holy oil upon him whose name I will give thee.
I will go out, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father concerning thee; and if I see anything, I will tell thee.
And the asses of the father of Saul's father was fled away. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take one of the servants with thee, and get up, and search the asses.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
Thus do Jehovah to Jonathan, and more also, should it please my father to do you evil, if I tell thee not, and send thee away, that ye may go in peace: Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
What doth it? only, that in every way or in falsehood or in truth, Christ is preached: I rejoice in this, yea, and will rejoice.
What shall we do for them for them that are left for wives? for we have sworn by Jehovah, not to give unto them our daughters as wives.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking, that he cast the jaws out of his hand; and he called that place Ramah.
And they smote messengers throughout mount Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take the waters before them, and the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim were called together, and took the waters unto the Jordan, and the Jordan.
And they both made a covenant before Jehovah. And David abode in the forest, and Jonathan went into his house.
And he that told the tidings, said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there is also a great slaughter among the people; and thy two sons also, even their names, and Phinehas died, and the ark of God is taken.
And they waited till they were ashamed; but the doors were still shut. So they took the key, and opened them, and behold, their lord stretched forth dead upon the threshing-floor.
that the daughters of Israel went yearly to keep the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in a year.
from whence also he is able to save them that are near by him to God, to make supplication to them always.
And as they went down to the region of the city, and Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to pass on before us: and when he passed, thou shalt stand here a while, that I may make known unto thee the word of God.
Else, as Jehovah liveth the God of Israel, who hath withheld me from doing a evil thing; if thou hadst not quickly come to meet me, there was not left the Carmelite by the morning, the light of the morning.
And they said unto Ezekiel, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
And he shall come to pass, and shall prepare a kid of the goats, and of an ephah of fine flour without leaven; he put the flesh in a basket, and put the hire in a pot, and he shall bring forth unto him unto the oak, and shall bring nigh.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath smitten the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it unto thy neighbor, who is better than thou.
and told him how Saul had killed the priests of the Lord.
And whensoever the evil spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, David took his harp, and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was better; for the evil spirit departed from him.
And Agag the king of Amalek died; but all the people he utterly destroyed with the edge of the sword.
And Abimelech reigned three years over Israel.
And they gave unto him seventy pieces of silver of the house of Baal: and Abimelech hired with them bad and full men; and they followed him.
fulfil my joy, that ye may mind the same thing, having the same love, even one soul;
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened to your voice, to all that ye shall say unto me, and I will reign over you a king.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth on the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor shall thy kingdom: therefore now send, and bring him unto me; for he shall surely die.
Be trapped every way in honor, and the bed is perfect; For the fornicators and the adulterers will God judge.
And Saul sent messengers to the house of David to watch him, and to kill him in the morning. And Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life to-night, to-morrow shalt thou be slain.
And it came to pass, that the Spirit of Jehovah and Manasseh, and Manasseh, and Manasseh, and Mizpah, from Gilead, passed over thence to the children of Ammon;
And his brethren, and his father's people, came down, and took him up, and buried him in the earth between Zorah and Eshtaol, in the lodging-place of his father. And he reigned twenty years.
For rebellion is as the transgression of divination; pride is as iniquity and idols; because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath rejected thee from being king.
And when Samuel was come to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
And he said, Thou hast taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and have gone away; what shall I have more? how shall thou ask me, What aileth thee?
Then said I, Lo, I am come; it is written of me in the roll of the book, to do, O God, thy will.
If they say unto us, Hold peace whither thou art until we come unto thee; then will we keep our places, and not go up unto them.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a southern land: give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
who in the days of his flesh, with a strong cry, and with tears, and with weeping, and for supplications unto him that was able to save him from death, was heard for his fear.
And it came to pass, from Gilgal, where the images were, said unto the king, I have heard thee, O king. And he commanded silence, and all went forth that were round about him.
Let us go therefore with confidence unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace in patience.
And he made the ephod thereof, and put it in his city, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah; and all Israel went there a harlot after it; which thing hath been a snare unto them, and to his house.
And it came to pass, that he was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes stood before, and he could not see.
Then smote Baal, and all the people that were with him, rising up early, and encamped by the well of the well; and the camp of Midian was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
But I gave up my profit, I gave up for Christ.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins; and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drank any water, three days and three nights.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou art come to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a javelin; but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the host of Israel, which thou hast defied.
And the children of Asher drove not out the inhabitants of Taanach, nor the inhabitants of Zidon, nor of Minnith, nor of Achzib, nor of melons, nor of Rosh, nor of Rehob;
And every man in distress, and every man that had a creditor, and every man that is vexed, gathered unto him, and he was their captain: and there were about four hundred men with him.
So David and his men came into the city, and, behold, they burned with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters.
And she said unto him, Why sayest thou thou love, when thy heart is not mine? thrice thou hast mocked me, and hast not showed me the mystery of thy great strength.
And we rebelled against the south of the Cherethites, and against that which belonged to Judah, and against the south of Caleb; and he burned Mark with fire.
in which we shall be sanctified through the gift of the body of Jesus Christ once.
And the rod of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and his arms went before him.
having been so much better than the angels, by much as he hath inherited a more excellent name than theirs.
And when he came, he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he led them.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek for me a woman that hath a good spirit, and I will go to her, and inquire by her. And his servants said unto him, There is a woman that hath a woman of divination at Endor.
For they are made manifest that they seek a country.
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And Micaiah said, Behold, I pray thee, if I ask thee, if thou canst answer me before the seven days of the feast, behold, I will give thee thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid on the south, and upon Ziklag, and smote, and smote, and burned it with fire.
And he said unto him, Far forbid, thou shalt not die: for my father will have nothing great or small, without first saying, Hath my father hid this word only from me? this shall not be.
For they indeed chastened for a few days, as it seemed good to them; but he for profit, to the ordinance of his holiness.
When Saul saw that he was very wisely, he was afraid of him.
But the children of Benjamin, when they saw themselves to be weak, began to flee. Which the children of Israel saw them, that they might go to the lodging-place that were prepared, which they had set near the city.
and every one in distress, and every one that owed him, and every one of the spirit of his spirit gathered together; and he was a captain over them; and there were with him about four hundred men.
In so much is Jesus made a surety of a good covenant.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the spirit of wrath God prospereth over Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house; and David played with his hand, as day by day, and the javelin in the hand of Saul.
And when they were come to the height, behold, a band of prophets, to meet him, and the Spirit of God prospered over him, and he prophesied among them.
And these are the golden pigeons, which the Philistines returned for a sin-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod, for Gaza, for Ashkelon, for Ekron, for Ekron,
And she sent, and called, and called the son of Tabeel the son of Jerubbesheth, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And, behold, the son of Joash said, The son of Joash did all this.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
And he went with his left hand with the sword upon his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly.
And he went out at the head of the city of Shechem, and made war upon Abimelech.
And there was a man from mount Ephraim, and his name was Micah.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me, and sent away mine enemy, that he escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Let me go, why should I kill thee?
So David and Abishai came to the army by night: and Saul slept in the camp with his spear, and thrust his spear into the ground, and Abner and the host were laid round about him.
Thou hast taken no pleasure in burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.
For the law, having a shadow of the coming good, not the image of the things, can not, by the same sacrifice which they offer every day daily, without blemish.
And Saul hastened to overthrow David to the wall with his spear. And David turned away from the presence of Saul. And the spear pursued him, and was bound in the wall; and David fled, and fled that night.
Do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, in the day of trial in the wilderness;
And the hand of death was dead, and was buried at Beth-lehem.
And it came to pass, after they had borne it there, that the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a great confusion; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, so that the great beasts brake out upon them.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this evil: yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And they tarried until they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the ointment; therefore they took a key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead upon the earth.
Wherefore we ought to pay great heed to the things which were heard, lest perhaps we depart away.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Behold, thou shalt say no more unto us, lest any anger come upon thee, and thou perish with all thy house.
So the Midianites were broken in the presence of the children of Israel, and the Midianites returned not their strength: and the land had peace forty years in the days of the days.
And by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that were disobedient, having received the spies in peace.
And it shall come to pass, that when the judge is dead, that they may turn corruptly above their fathers, to go after other gods, to serve them, and to bow themselves unto them; they fell not from their doings, and from their stiff way.
And there were found of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgins, who knew not the bed of man, and brought them to the camp Shiloh, into the land of Canaan.
And Hanun answered and said, No, my lord, a woman sick in spirit I, and I have no wine and strong drink, and I poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And Jonathan stripped the mantle that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his raiment, and his sword, and his bow, and his girdle.
So they went up into the city, and as they were entering into the midst of the city, and Samuel came forth to meet them, to go up to the high place.
Then said I, Behold, I am bold, O God, according as it is written of me in the roll of the book.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah hath done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and hath appointed thee prince over Israel,
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.
For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath kept me back from evil to hurt thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there was not left the Carmelite by the morning, the light of the morning.
And on the morrow, the people rose early, and builded an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now therefore stand up, that I may plead in judgment against you before Jehovah, concerning all the goodness of Jehovah, which he hath showed you, and to your fathers.
And when he came, behold, there was sitting at his throne by the way watching; for his heart trembled for God's ark. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
not that I say, for I have learned the things wherein I am, to be content.
And they said, There shall be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted out from Israel.
And when he saw her, he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
But the righteous shall live by faith: and if he shall come, My soul hath no pleasure in him.
And she said unto Samuel, Go, and if the voice return, let thy answer be, and say, Thou shalt say unto thee, Lord, for thy servant's ears are opened. And Samuel returned to his bed.
For Christ entered not into holy places made with hands, which are the earnest of the true, but into heaven itself, now to appear before God for us;
Behold, this day, thy eyes have seen that Jehovah hath given thee this day into my hand in the cave, and some said to slay thee; but I have compassion on thee, and said, I will not stretch out my hand against my lord; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Abimelech went up to Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him: and Abimelech took an iron in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it up, and laid it on his shoulder. Then he said unto the people that were with him, What thou hast seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done.
For they, as a few days, according to that which seemed good unto them were correction; but he for profit, to be partakers of his separation.
And he said unto them, I have a request, that ye would give me the rings of his spoil: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmeelites.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: Ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain by man.
See, lest there be any man that falleth short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness increaseth thee, and many be defiled by it;
And the five men departed, and came to Laish; and they saw the people that were therein, dwelling confidently, after the manner of the Zidonians, quiet and sure; and no man was in the land that took power, that could put to shame in anything; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had nothing to do with man.
Behold, I will send the lad, saying, Go, find the arrows. If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon this side of you; take them; and come; for there is peace unto you, and no harm, as Jehovah liveth.
And I will draw unto thee unto the river of Kishon, to Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And the trees went to anoint a king over them: and they said unto the olive of the olive, Thou hast made us afraid over us.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David now stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And the children of Israel returned, and pursued after the Philistines, and fell upon their camp.
and the candlesticks of gold, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities and villages, even unto the great stone, upon which they set down the ark of Jehovah: that stone remain unto this day in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh.
And he had thirty sons and thirty daughters, that he sent away without and thirty daughters in his sons without; and he judges Israel seven years.
that every knee should bow down at the name of Jesus, and of them that are in heaven, and on earth, and upon them that are under the earth:
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink,
For he found a trespass with them, and said, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
And over it were the cherubim of glory set upon the mercy-seat; whereof it should be no need of them.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with the clay, even Ashdod and the borders thereof.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
Moreover we have had fathers of our flesh, that they should be taught, and we feared them: shall we not much more obey the Father of spirits, and live?
And he said unto him, We are going from the way of Bethlehem Judah, toward the far side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehem Judah, and I will do with the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receiveth me into his house.
And he smote them with thigh and thigh with a great slaughter. And he went down, and dwelt in the cleft of the rock of the rock.
For my father warred and gave his life for you, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian.
And he asked for water, and she gave him milk: and she brought him butter, and he brought him out of his own accord platter.
And by faith Enoch was interpreted, that he should not see death; but he was not found, because God had interpreted to him: for before his departure he testified that he pleased God.
Settle him therefore in the Lord with joy, and honor such as he is:
And when she came, she asked him to ask her father for a field; and she alighted from off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What would thou like?
Let us therefore make diligence to enter into that rest, that no one may fall in the likeness of disobedience.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the travail, whose name was called ah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Hauran; and he dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; but the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and of Hauran, were made tributary.
And the people fell upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and slew them upon the ground; and the people ate with the blood.
And the captains of Issachar were with Dabbesheth, and they followed the steps of Tekoa, that was cast down to death, as one that went down, and into a pit: Reuben was divided against himself, and there was found a controversy of men.
But the man would not tarry at the night, and he arose, and went; and he came before Jebus ( which is, Jerusalem); and he had with him a couple of asses, and his concubine.
And Micaiah said unto them, Though ye do so, yet I will be avenged on you, and afterward I will cease.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house at Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hanun his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And when Jesse called, Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel, he said, This also hath Jehovah chosen.
And they turned aside thither to go in and lodge in Gibeah: and when he went in, he sat him down in the street of the city: for there was no man that took them into his house to lodge.
Then said I, Behold, I have come; in the roll of the book it is written of me, that I may do thy will, O God.
And it came to pass, when the lad came up unto the arrow that Jonathan had shot, and Jonathan called after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond you?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they asked the wife of the wife, saying, Go from thy husband, that he should inquire of thee by reason of evil or else, neither will we and thy father's house burn with fire; and we have brought us hither to bring us hither?
And to them that were in Aroer, and to them that were in Sisera, and to them that were in Eshtemoa,
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines: and they drove off their cattle, and they smote them. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And when he arose, he took new cords, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: now there were spies abiding in the chamber, and he brake them out of his arms like a thread.
They had no one to ride, neither were there armed in the cities: there was a shield, or a spear, to be found among forty thousand in Israel?
It is a terrible thing that falleth into the hands of God.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thine maid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spakest unto me.
And we will take ten men of an hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to bring forth provision for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we are passing over unto the men, and are revealed unto them.
for they were in Hebron, and for all the places where David and his men were skilful.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in strongholds, and dwelt in the mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God gave him not into his hand.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this evil: only turn not aside from following Jehovah; but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And her father said, Surely I thought that thou hast hated her; therefore I gave her to thy neighbor: is not her younger sister more beautiful than she? I pray thee, take her, I pray thee.
But apart from faith it is impossible to be well: for he that cometh to God to believe that he is; and to them that seek him, he becometh a reward.
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver that were taken from thee, and concerning which thou hast spoken a curse in my hearing, are with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son by Jehovah.
And he had a great priest over the house of God.
And when the spies saw a man left the city, they said unto him, shew us now the door of the city, and we will deal kindly with thee.
From year to year he went to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, to judge Israel in all these places.
And Saul was more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Yea, if I offer upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with you all.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion, which I gave thee, and commanded thee to set it by thee.
But the olive tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fat, wherewith they honor God and man by me, and go to wave the trees?
And with whom was he angry forty years? was it not with them that did evil, who died in the wilderness?
And for the same thing ye shall rejoice, and bless me.
and I saw, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in flatteries, then ye shall go out of the vineyards, and take each one his wife out of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
So David took the spear and drawers of water from Saul's stead, and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, nor awaked; for they were all sleeping; for a deep sleep fell upon them.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel out of the hand of Midian: have I not sent thee?
And David left the things that he was bound in the hand of the keeper, and ran into the ranges, and came and saluted his brethren.
and might deliver them that, whosoever, with fear of death, in all their life, were in bondage.
And it came to pass, when they were by the house of Micah, that they knew the voice of the young man the Levite: and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thee in this place? and what hast thou here?
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favour in thy sight. And the woman went on her way, and did eat; and her countenance saw no more.
And they that were in ambush arose on a sudden rushing out of their bed: and Benjamin turned their backs to the murderers, and went into the city, and smote it with the edge of the sword.
And the children of Israel took away captive the Baalim and the wicked, and served Jehovah alone.
For he found a trespass with them, and saith, Behold, the days shall come, saith Jehovah; and I will be perfect unto the house of Israel, and to the house of Judah, a new covenant.
Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum: we have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of glory in heaven;
And he turned again from the journey that were at Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king: who said, Hold silence; and all that stood by him went forth from him.
And there came a man of God to come to him, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Did I not reveal me unto thy father's house, when they were in Egypt under the house of Pharaoh?
When thou hast gone away from me this day, thou shalt see two men in the grave of Rachel, in the land of Benjamin, at the land of Benjamin: and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou sawest, and now thy father, despise no more for the asses, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who hath put forth his hand against the anointed of Jehovah, and be guiltless?
And Saul sent messengers to the house of David to watch him, and to put him to death in the morning. And Michal his wife told David, saying, If thou shalt not deliver thy life to-night, thou shalt be put to death.
And we dwelt in the south of the Cherethites, and on the border that belongeth to Judah, and on the south of Caleb; and we burned in Ziklag with fire.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not do so wickedly: seeing this man hath come into my house, do not this folly.
And they charged the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in wait in the vineyards;
And Samuel said, As thy sword is bereaved of her whelps, so shall thy mother be bereaved among women. Then Samuel smote them in the presence of Jehovah at Gilgal.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, in that we sware, that we may two, in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and went; and Jonathan went into the city.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he spake them in the ears of Jehovah.
And after him, Elon the serpent, judge Israel, and judges Israel ten years.
But Jonathan, when he knew not his father's oath upon the people, stretched out the rod that was in his hand, and laid the portion thereof in the honey, and put it into his mouth; then his eyes were lightened.
And having then a great high priest, who passed through heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold unto our confession.
And Saul inquired of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou give them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
And he waited seven days, according to the commandment with Samuel; and Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye thus? for I hear of your evil words from all the people.
And the three thousand of the men of Judah went down to the stronghold of the rock of Etam, and said unto a son, Is it not known that the Philistines are our rulers? and what is this thou hast done to us? And he said unto them, I only did unto them as they did unto me.
but unto the second priest, the chief priest only, once a year, not without blood, which he offereth for himself, and for the stock of the people:
and thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this high oracle, and take a second bullock, and offer it for a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose for himself five goodly stones out of the brook, and put them in the sack of his shepherd which he had; and his horses was in his hand; and he came near unto the Philistines.
And he said unto them, This is what Micah did for me, and he gave me hire, and I became his priest.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in the midst of Mahanaim; and Jonathan returned to his house.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the holy priest of our confession, Jesus Christ;
And he said unto him, If I have found favor in thine eyes, then hast thou done me a sign that thou speakest with me.
And Jonathan made a covenant David, because he loved him as his own soul.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they took thirty men, and they were with him.
And David said unto Abiathar, Behold, I knew that day the Edomite was there, that no doubt he would say unto Saul, I have been the punishment of all the souls of thy father's house.
Thou hast made him a little while than the angels; Thou hast crowned him with glory and honor.
And though he was a Son, by reason of pain which he made, known unto him the knowledge of the things which it was to be under the commandments of God;
But I rejoice in the Lord exceedingly, that now long ye have quickened your thought for me; in which ye were truly anxious, but ye lacked.
And he had a crown of brass upon his legs, and a breastplate of brass between his shoulders.
And he said, Let thy words come, what is the manner of the youth and his work?
And it came to pass from that day, that there was that which was called Baal-perazim, for Manasseh said, Let Baal avenge him that hath cast down his altar.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and thou hadst not come at the appointed time of the days: but the Philistines were gathered together at Michmash.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall come forth from the door of my house, that I shall bring me in peace from the children of Ammon, shall be Jehovah's, and I will give him as a burnt-offering.
And it is yet most most vision, if after the likeness of Melchizedek, there shall arise another priest:
And when he had ended these words, he cast out the mouth of his hand out of his hand, and called the name of the place Rephan, which is interpreted by interpretation.
of whom we have much to say, and hard to be stiffnecked: for ye are become weak to hear.
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul heard it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And the king said to the guard that stood about him, Go, and slay the priests of Jehovah, because they also help David, and because they knew that he fled, and declared it not unto me. But the king's servants would not lift up their hand to help the priests of Jehovah.
And Saul and his men went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other: and David's counsel was to depart as the fear of Saul; for Saul and his men fought against David and his men.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but there was no answer. So he took her up, and put her upon the ass, and went on his way, and came to his house.
And the messengers came, and, behold, the image was in the bed, and the net of goats' at his head.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance is mine, and I will repay: and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
avoiding not strange commandments; for it is good for your hearts to be strengthened by grace, and not by meats, which were of no profit to them that did not hurt them.
And the Holy Spirit also testifieth unto us, saying,
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And the man that travaileth with all his household went up to make the year's heave-offering to Jehovah, and to perform his oath.
And the men of Israel said, Have thou seen this man that is come up? for he is going up to defy Israel: and it shall be that the man that shall judge him, the king shall make him rich with great riches, and shall give him his daughter in marriage, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David to David, and comforted him by God.
And I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation: for I wrote a letter unto you in few words.
And to whom he sware that they shall not enter into his rest, except to them that believed not?
Jehovah killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and returneth again.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Abide, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And he smote them from Aroer, until thou come to balm, and twenty cities, and unto Abel, the great waters, with a great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
God also beareth them witness by signs, and wonders, and divers signs, and the power of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
Now therefore, if ye have done a truth and right thing, in that ye have made Abimelech king: and if ye have dealt well with whips and his house, and have done unto him according to the portion of his hands;
For he found a trespass with them, and saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah.
For this cause it is all the more that we have thought to the things which we have heard, lest we be hindered.
So he went thither unto Ramah, and the Spirit of God was upon him. And he went, and went away, until he came, till he came to Mahanaim in Ramah.
according to my patience and hope, that I will not be ashamed, but with all boldness, even as always; now also the Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
And he numbered them in Hashabiah; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
The reproach of Christ is great riches than the treasure of the Egyptians: for he looked unto the reward.
So Michal let David down through the window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
And the citizens of Shechem set him in wait upon the tops of the mountains; and they robbed all that came by them; and it was told Abimelech.
And by faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departed of the children of Israel, and commanded concerning his bones.
And David abode in Gath at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household; and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, the wife of Nabal.
not that I have already obtained, or have been made perfect already; but I persecute, if I also lay hold on that for which also I was laid hold of by the Christ Jesus.
And I exhort thee also, as well as well as the manner of truth, help those women who wrought with me in the gospel, with the jointer also, and with other my fellow workmen, whose names are in the book of life.
and again I will put my trust in him; and again I and the children whom God hath given me.
( for the law hath ceased nothing), and in its place there is a better hope, whereby we come nigh unto God.
And they said unto him, Say now the Syrians. And he said, Smite thou, and he did not speak. Then they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell at the time of Ephraim forty and two thousand.
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
There is great stature in all, and the bed is perfect; But the fornicators and the adulterer God will judge.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of that which the Philistines had done to Saul,
And David came to Ornan the priest, and Abimelech marvelled at David's coming. And he said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And their portions, and their shovels, and their hooks, and their axes, were the border of the border, even unto the departure, which was to be carried up.
Forsake hospitality not: for through this men have received angels as guests without knowledge.
Now while she was long time in prayer before Jehovah, he was watching at her mouth.
And when the Philistines looked, and saw David, he despised him: for he was but a child, and ruddy, and a fair countenance.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his face, or on the height of his stature; for I have refused him; for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh upon the face, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
And he that heard tidings shall answer, and said, Israel fled before the Philistines, and there was a great slaughter among the people; and also thy two sons shall die; and the Egyptians and the ark of God shall be taken.
And David, having girded his sword upon his armor, began to try whether he could walk in armor: for he was not accustomed to it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go thus; for I am not used to it. And he laid them off.
as for jealousy, persecuted the church; as unto righteousness which is in the law, found innocent.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, dwelt in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation in your prayer, and the solace of the Spirit of Jesus Christ:
For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, O Ahimelech, thou, and all the house of thy father.
For thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall touch his head; for the lad shall be a Nazarite of God from birth: and he shall deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
So Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel; and he and his men went to search for David, to the borders of the mount.
And he took the kid of the goats with the meal-offering, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah: and the angel made a horrible thing as a man, and his wife, and his wife.
Now therefore hear thou also the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set before thee a piece of bread, that thou mayest eat and recover strength, and be able to go on thy journey.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Ah, Lord, let the man of God come again unto us, I pray thee, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened bread, and lay them upon that rock, and pour out the broth thereon; and when he had done so,
Then Naaman answered, Go in peace; and let the God of Israel grant thy prayer that ye have asked of him.
And Saul said, Behold, I have done the commandment of Jehovah, and have gone the way of the Lord, and I have driven off Agag king of Amalek, and I will destroy the Amalekite.
And Saul called unto the people, and counted them in Ahaz, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And when they had turned aside a little, they went into the house of the young man the Levite, who was in the house of meeting: and they saluted him with words of peace.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up; and they entered there, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the images, and the molten image. And the priest stood at the door of the gate with the six hundred men armed with the weapons of war.
And Jotham hasted, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there from the face of Abimelech his brother.
And Deborah a woman, a woman prophet, his wife, was a judge of Israel at that time.
And David took the head of the Philistines to Jerusalem, but he put a molten shield, and put the arms in his tent.
so that we may flee from the hope of the hope which was set before us, that we may comfort two things, in which it is not possible to deceive God;
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh: he and his sons were priests to the tribe of the city, until the day of the captivity of the people of the land.
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the rock of the rock, and said to the king, Knowest thou not that the Philistines have dominion over us? and what is this that thou hast done to us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
But when the judge was dead, they turned again, and did more evil than their fathers, and went after other gods, to be their servants, and to serve them; and they brought up nothing of their sins and their own ways.
And he called all the men of Gilead, and fought against Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because he said, Gilead is a fugitive of Ephraim, and dwelt in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And his brethren, and all his kindred, went down, and buried him, and buried it between Seraiah, and Mikloth in the sepulchre of his father. And he executed Israel twenty years.
and be found in him, not having mine righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is by the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith.
My God will stay every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto them no more; and straightway he knew that it was an angel of the Lord,
And when they arose early, it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the roof of the house, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel.
But whatsoever things were profitable to me, these things I considered loss for the sake of Christ.
Then I laid hold upon my concubine, and cut her into pieces, and sent her through all the borders of Israel's inheritance; for they have committed a shame and folly in Israel.
And the house was full of men and women: and all the princes of the Philistines were there round about three thousand men and women in the roof, to wit, the king's office.
and said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppressed you;
And David dwelt in the wilderness in strongholds, and dwelt in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
If thy father avenge me, then say, David speed earnestly required of me that he would run to Bethlehem his city: for there is a year offering for all the family.
And his elder brother Eliab heard while he spake unto the men, and Eliab was wroth against David, and said, Why hast thou come down this day, and with whom hast thou forsaken them that few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the evil of thy heart; for thou art come down to see the battle.
Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: but if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
And it came to pass, that he sat in unto him, and sat in the summer seat, and said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from his throne.
And by faith we understand the world, being created by the word of God, that which was seen did not be from the sight.
And Saul called for all the host for the battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay siege against David and his men.
And these ten parts of Tekoa thou shalt bring unto the prince of the thousand; and how thy brethren do, and take their pledge.
Now Shema the son went to Gaza; and he saw a harlot, and went in unto her.
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant covered in every part of gold, in which the golden pot which had the manna, and the rod of Aaron that had budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And the lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel lay in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
Some part of them also with reproach and afflictions were made unto death; and part of them were partakers of them alive.
And Samuel arose, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
Be not led away with various and strange teachings; for it is good, that the heart be confirmed with grace, not meat; they that walk in which have not been profited by.
But she made him sleep upon her knees, and lay his head in her bosom; and she called a wife, and shaved his seven veil, and began to thrust him away, and thrust him from her: for immediately his strength departed from him.
And the Philistines went, going and drew near unto David, and the man bearing the breastplate before him.
And God did so in that night, and there was a drought upon the fleece of the fleece, and upon all the earth there was dew.
And he went down and spake unto the woman, and she loved the son of virginity.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah; and they called the name called Baal to this day. It is unto the west side of Kiriath-jearim.
And Samuel said, What meaneth this more the speckled in mine ears, and the oxen that I hear?
So David went with him, and went with him six hundred men, and they came to the brook.
And who shall hearken unto you in this thing? for as the portion of him that was brought down into the battle, so also the portion of him that abideth in the vessels shall be alike alike.
Let the brotherly love remain.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and beat, and called the name of it, and said, Hitherto Jehovah hath helped us.
And Moses did as a servant in all his house, and for a testimony of the things which were spoken,
And Jonathan gave his counsellor to his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them into the city.
And it came to pass, when the people of Ashdod rose early on the morrow, behold, and Dagon fell on his face to the ground before Jehovah's ark; and they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
So the men of Kiriath-jearim came and brought the ark of Jehovah to the house of Abinadab in Gibeah, and made Eleazar his son holy, and set the ark in his care.
And all these people that are here this day shall know that Jehovah will not deliver salvation by the sword and by the sword: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
Then answered David, and said to Abishai the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, to Joab, Who shall go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much rather in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling;
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, Jehovah liveth, he shall not die.
and if thou be afraid to go down, go down, thou and thy young man, into the camp;
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for us unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have sinned against all our sins, and sought a king.
Jesus Christ was once and this day to the ages.
And all that generation was gathered unto their fathers: and others rose up that knew not Jehovah, and the works which he had done for Israel.
So all the people gat branches, every man cutting down a branch, and went with Abimelech at their head, and brought forth the branches against the inner chamber, and put fire unto the chamber over them; so all that were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned with it.
And this people would this people were under my hand; then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Take thee thy army, and come out.
And Saul commanded his servants, and said unto David, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now be the king's son.
And if their fathers or their brethren murmured unto us, we will say unto them, Let us have them, because we have not taken a wife for each man in the battle, and because ye gave them not unto them, lest ye have been guilty.
And David said unto Ahijah, Behold, I pray thee, what thy servant will do. And Abimelech said unto David, I will make thee the keeper of my head for ever.
And he came to his father's house unto Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, seventy persons upon one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbesheth was left; for he had hid himself.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And David was the youngest: and the three elder followed Saul.
Moreover Jehovah will deliver Israel also with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
But Hanun loved him, though Hanun loved him, but Jehovah had not suffered her children.
And the ambush hasted, and rebelled against Gibeah; and the ambush drew out, and smote the whole city by the edge of the sword.
that the generations of the children of Israel might know the war by reason of the least, even those that knew nothing of it.
And David went from thence to Mizpah in Moab, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother come forth from thee, till I know what God will do for me.
And David sware unto Saul, and Saul went into his house; but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And roughly said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go: but if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And she made a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt have compassion upon the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and forget thy handmaid, and give unto thy handmaid a man-child, I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and a razor shall not pass over his head.
And Jehovah sent a very evil spirit between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Shechem, who began to abhor him;
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
And now, I pray thee, bear my sin, and return with me: and I will worship myself unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, The king live.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood by him, Hear, I pray you, O Benjamite: even unto all of you shall the son of Jesse give fields and vineyards: he shall appoint all of you captains of thousands and captains of hundreds.
For it is known that our Lord came out of Judah: in which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning the priests.
And they cried to David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, surely thou wast true, and I have been pleased to go with me in the time; for I have not found any wrong in thee from the day that thou camest unto me unto this day, but in the sight of the rulers thou art not good.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and spake to them, and to all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And the men of Israel went in battle, and Benjamin began to smite the slain among the men of Israel, about thirty men: for they said, Surely they are utterly smitten before us, as the first battle.
And it came to pass, when Israel sowed, that Midian came up, and Amalek, and the children of the east, and came up against them.
And the children of Israel, being moved with their brother Benjamin, began to say, There is one tribe taken away from Israel.
And now, behold, the king is before thee; and I am old and gray-haired, and my sons are with thee: I have lived before thine eyes from my youth until now.
And this is the thing which ye shall do: every male, and every woman, knowing the lying of a male, ye shall destroy.
And he said, Peace; I will come unto Jehovah, sanctify yourselves, and ye shall come with me to the sacrifice. And he anointed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
But this man, when he had offered one sacrifice for ever for ever, sat on the right hand of God;
Let us work therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same as a example of unbelief.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done a vile thing: thou hast not kept the statutes which Jehovah thy God commanded thee: it was Jehovah's counsel to establish thee over Israel for ever.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and saith unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not harm, I pray you, after that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
What shall we do for them that remain? since we have sworn by Jehovah, that we give not to them of our daughters for wives.
And the king of the Philistines came up to her, and said unto her, Make thy hand over him, and see what is the secret of his great strength, and how we may recover him, and bind him, that we may make him faint; and every one of us shall give thee eleven hundred shekels of silver.
I pressed on the end for the perfecting of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest that which Saul hath done, that he hath cut off them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards out of the land: and why shouldest thou lay a snare for my soul, to kill me?
And Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves of bread, and two skins full of wine, and five rams prepared for almonds, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred cors of raisins, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and put them upon asses.
And the children of Israel returned from burning after the Philistines, and plundered their tents.
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, And the feeble knees,
And they gathered themselves to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured out before Jehovah, and fasted that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judge the children of Israel at Mizpah.
Then went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Return, my lord, turn in unto me: fear not. And when he had turned into her into the tent, she covered him with a mantle.
For ye came not to something that shall be touched, and to the burning fire, and to the darkness, and to the darkness, and to the whirlwind;
So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
And David smote them from the evening even unto the evening of the next day: and there was not a man that had escaped, but four hundred young men that rode upon camels, and fled.
And now let not my blood be shed upon the earth before Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come forth to seek a green thing, as the partridge that sitteth in the mountains.
And her wise virgins answered her: Yea, she returned unto her,
that through two unbelief, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we that trust may have power to keep the hope of hope before us,
And he took it into his hand, and went on, eating as he went: and he came to his father and mother, and gave unto them, and they did eat; but he told them not that he had taken the honey out of the lion's body.
And the cities which the Philistines had brought back to Israel from Ekron to Gath, and all the country round about them, Israel revolted from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber, and gave them a place at the head of those that were bidden; and they were about thirty persons.
And it came to pass, when Baal-hanan the ruler of the city heard the words of Agur the son of Imla, his anger was kindled.
And one of the sons of Shelemiah the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
And they remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about.
And David went to and from Saul, and looked after his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And forasmuch as it is a portion of men to die, and after this judgment,
And she wept before him the seven days of their feast; and it came to pass, because she bare him, on the seventh day he told it unto her, and told the riddle unto her people.
Even so also Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, shall appear unto the second time without a sin, to them that wait for him for salvation.
And the hand of the children of Israel went, and increased with Jabin king of Canaan, until they had cut off to Jabin king of Canaan.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow down, of them that are in heaven, upon earth and under the earth:
All the saints salute you, especially those of the household of Caesar.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in glory.
that through two times table, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong comfort which fled for refuge to lay hold on hope.
And when he numbered them in Hashabiah, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And to Abigail the wife of Nabal, one young man of the youths, said, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our lord, and he shall fly upon them.
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, now the day is come to evening, I pray thee, tarry all night; behold, the day is grown to an end, tarry here, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow get thee early on thy way, that thou mayest go home.
And a man of God came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly reveal myself to thy father's house, when they were in Egypt, in the house of Pharaoh,
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
And there journeyed from thence, of the family of the Canaanite, from Zorah, and from Jaakan, six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
Thou lovest righteousness, and hated iniquity; Therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of joy above thy fellows.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants and the woman pressed him, and when he heard his voice, he arose from the ground, and sat upon the bed.
And when the people saw the people, and said to Shebna, Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. And Shebna said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as men.
( Now Eber the Kenites had loosed from the Kenite, from the children of Achor the father-in-law of Moses, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak of Chislonaim, which is by Kedesh);
And David came to the two hundred men, because of the weary had not gone with him, but they waited at the brook of the brook, and went out, and went out, and the people that were with him; and when they came near, they said, How are ye?
And all these things, being approved by the testimony of faith, received not the promise.
Then said to the elders of the elders of Gilead, If thou wilt bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and if I have smitten them with the help of Jehovah, wilt thou make me thy head?
If thou art not better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, or canst he know that he contended against Israel, and fought against him,
And thou shalt show this day what thou hast dealt well with me; forasmuch as Jehovah had delivered me into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
And the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of Jehovah, because they despised the offering of Jehovah with contempt.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, O young man? And David said, I am the son of thy handmaid the Gilonite.
So the people sent to Shiloh; and they brought from there the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which sitteth above the cherubim; and the two sons of the bakers, Gibeath and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And she wept over him all the seven days of the feast of the feast; and the seventh day he answered, because she gave him no peace; and she told it to the children of her people.
But I would wish you to know, brethren, that the things which is about me, that they should come to the gospel of the gospel.
And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, and host against war.
And they told Jotham, and went up, and stood on the top of mount Gerizim; and he cried out loud, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye lords of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where there was a cave; and Saul went in to recover himself; and David and his men were at the innermost parts of the cave.
And she arose, and bowed down with her face to the ground, and said, Behold thy handmaid, as a servant to wash the feet of my lord's servants.
When ye come thither, thou shalt come to a people that feareth not; and the land is enlarged, and God hath delivered it into your hand: there is a place for man upon the ground for man.
And Abimelech departed from thence, and went into the city of Joseph, which he compassed and besieged with his army.
And Saul said, Thus shall God do, and shall add this more: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
to the great congregation and the church of the first of them that are called in heaven, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of good men,
For the blood of bulls and the goats shall continue to take away sins.
And the children of Benjamin came together from all their cities unto Gibeah, to go to war with the children of Israel.
So therefore return, and go in peace, lest ye do anything that smiteth the princes of the Philistines.
And he said, Let me now now, for our family hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me now now, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not to the king's table.
And, behold, there arose a tumult in Ephraim; and when they went toward the north, they said unto them, When thou wentest to fight against the children of Ammon, why wouldest thou not call us, that we may go with thee? therefore we will burn thy house.
And he said unto him, O my lord, wherewith do I save Israel? behold, my head is weak in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And told him that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
I have sent him the more diligently, that seeing him ye might again rejoice, and that I might be the less sorry.
Blessed be thy understanding, and blessed be thou, who hast kept me this day from coming with blood, and avenge me with my hand.
and these ten men take up to the chief captain, and see thy brethren if they are well, and learn with whom they are set.
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, No razor hath ever come upon my head; for I have been a Nazirite unto God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength shall go from me, and I will be weak, and be like any other man.
And the Holy Spirit also will testify this unto us.
and said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I will bring Israel out of Egypt, and I will deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppress you.
So they gathered to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah: and they fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel had judged the children of Israel at Mizpah.
without father, without mother, without any genealogy; having neither beginning of days, nor end of life, but made a end to the Son of God, abideth a priest continually.
If he be able to fight with me, and he will be surety upon me, then we will be your servants: but if I prevail over him, and have smitten him, then thou shalt be our servants, and thou shalt serve us.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in this thy strength, and deliver Israel out of the hand of Midian; did I not send thee?
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to stir him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do to the remnant of women? for the women have perished out of Benjamin?
Then the Philistines drew near and drew near to David, and his armorbearer before him.
And the man said, Israel fled from the Philistines, and there was great destruction among the people, and thy two sons, even their burnt-offerings, and Phinehas died, and the ark of God was taken.
For if the blood of the goats and of oxen, and the ashes of the heifer, be sprinkled, sanctify such as are unclean, to the clean of the flesh:
And Michal took the teraphim, and laid on the bed, and the nurse of the goats''s coat, and covered with a garment.
By so much, Jesus is the debtor of a good covenant.
and they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every one his brother, saying, Know thou the Lord; for they shall all know me from the small one of them unto the great one of them,
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
And he said unto his servants that stood by him, Hear me now, ye sons of Iddo: will the son of Jesse give of you fields and vineyards, and make thee vineyards, and all captains of captains, and captains of hundreds;
And he set them on fire, and let the foxes go, that they might run about hither and thither. And they immediately went into the ears of the Philistines, and that which was put on fire, both the grain that was now taken together, and that which was yet standing, all burnt; and the flame devoured also the vineyards and the olive-trees.
And the lords of the Philistines passed by hundreds, and by thousands: but David and his men passed over against the watch with hooks.
And as he spake with them, behold, there came up the breaches, the Philistines of Gath, whose name was called by name, out of the way of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words; and David heard.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and went to Ramah, to the house of their house; and Elkanah smote his wife; and Jehovah kept her in mind.
And thus saith unto the Holy Spirit, To-day if ye hear his voice,
And thou shalt not yet while yet I live, even the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I die not.
And Pekah bound him with these, and cried out, saying, The Philistines are upon thee, even the Philistines, being prepared for him in the chamber; but he brake the bands like the spider's bands.
And the watchmen saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, Show us now the door of the city, that we may do mercy with thee.
And it shall come to pass after that thou comest to the hill of God, where are the posts of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither into the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with harp, and with timbrels and harp and harp before them; and they themselves prophesy.
And of the men of Israel, besides the children of Benjamin, were found four hundred thousand that drew swords, and were prepared to fight.
And her father said, It seemed to me that thou hadst hated her; therefore I gave her to thy friend: but is not her younger sister more than she? therefore I pray thee.
Are they not all the spirits in bondage, sent on rule for the sake of them that are to possess salvation?
And he restored them to his mother: and she took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to the silversmith, to make of them a graven image and a molten god, which was in the house of meeting.
And the standard came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned the way of Ophrah into the land of Libnah.
Then said I, Lo, I come, that in the roll of the book it is written of me, To do, O God, thy will.
And he rose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the servant of the damsel answered, I pray thee, strengthen thy heart, and tarry until the day long; and they both did eat.
Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child, and about to give birth; and when she heard the ears of the taking of the ark of God, and that her father 'father-in-law, she went into labor and bare, because her labor fell upon her.
looking on Jesus, the son of God, and by the beginning of the faith, who rejoiced before him, and bare the cross, and despised the shame, and now sat on the right hand of the throne of God.
And Samuel waxed elder, and Jehovah was with him, and none of his words.
And he said unto Zebah and Zalmunna, How are the men whom ye slew in Tabor? And they said, As thou art as thou art as the likeness of the king's sons.
And unto the Son, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever; the sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
But one hath testified, saying, What is man, that ye think of him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, A old man cometh up; and he was covered with a mantle. And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And Saul clothed David with his garments, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and girded him with a coat of mail.
And David dwelt in Gath at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, the wife of Nabal.
Now therefore, if thou hast done in good faith and truth in making Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with banishment and his house, and have dealt with him according to his stead,
Whose end is destroyed, whose god is the belly, And whose glory is in their shame, That the things upon earth are set.
Then said Samuel unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal; and let us build the kingdom there.
Why hast ye despised my sacrifice and for my oblation, which I commanded in my habitation, and honor your sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they smote the Canaanites that dwelt in Halah, and slew them. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Saul said unto his servant, Behold, we will go; but what shall we carry to the man of God? the bread is spent in our sacks: and we have no present to make unto the man of God, nor any thing at all.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
concerning jealousy, persecuted the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law,
And the people said unto Samuel, Who was it that said, Is not Saul our king? give the men up, that we may kill them.
Having this confidence, I know that I shall abide, yea, and continue with you all, for your progress and joy in faith;
And in faith died all these things, having not received the promises, but seeing them, and having been persuaded, and saluted, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
Then came David to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
and my God will fulfil your want according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not, ye have done all this evil: yet depart not from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And in the same place he saith again, They shall not come into my rest.
And Ephraim drove not out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
And the sign went up out of the city in the pillar of smoke; and the Benjamite returned, and turned back, and saw all the city that went up to heaven.
And they came to pass, and the men that were with him, and the hundred men that were with him, came unto the camp at the first of the midst of the midst of the camp; and they had but a new song, and blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels that were in their hands.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the appearance of an angel of God, exceeding terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he his name.
Let the love of the brotherhood abide in you.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, straw and Zalmunna, of whom thou hast mocked me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah, even in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy host that are wearied?
And he found a new jaws of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith.
And he said, Let me now go, for our house hath a sacrifice in the city: my brother hath commanded me to be there: and if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go, let me go away, and see my brethren. Therefore he came not to the king's table.
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither did we turn any thing, as long as we were afraid with them, when we were in the fields:
And the men of Israel said, Proclaim on us, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul sought to come in the land of Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
but a certain terrible hope of justice, and the burning of fire to devour the adversaries.
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent unto other places; and he took thirty wives from other places for his sons. And he sojourned seven years.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that is great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And there was much war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw any mighty man, or any man man of valor, he took him to himself.
And the rough grass said, Rise up, and fall upon us: for as the man is his might. And when he had grown up, he rose up, and slew all the waves thereof, and they took their shields on the neck of their camels.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the Philistines's hand may be upon him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law a second time.
And it came to pass, as she made supplication in the sight of Jehovah, that he took her mouth.
And Samuel died, and all Israel was gathered together, and they mourned for him, and buried him in his house in Riblah. So David arose, and went down into the wilderness of Paran.
And they cut off his head, and took away his garments, and sent them unto the land of the Philistines round about, to bring the tidings unto their gods, and to the people.
And they said unto him, Come and be our prince, and fight against the children of Ammon.
For we have preached the gospel, even as they: but the word heard not them not, not being made with faith in them that heard.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah be sealed me, and my men, into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall shut up.
And Saul said unto his servants, Give me now a man that is willing to play, and bring him to me.
But David laid up these words in his heart, and was greatly afraid at the king of Gath king of Gath.
And they said, Who is one of the tribes of Israel that came not up unto the Lord to Mizpah? And, behold, none came unto the camp from Jabesh Gilead, unto the congregation.
And she took him up with her youth, with three bullocks, and one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah to Shiloh; and the child was young.
And it came to pass, when David came, and his men unto Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekites had looked toward the south, and to Ziklag, and smote Mark, and burned it with fire.
And the olive tree answered, Shall I stop my oil, which is in me gods and men, to go over the trees?
And Ezekiel vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou shalt not fail the children of Ammon into mine hands,
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not tarry in my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
So Jehovah, the God of Israel, destroyed the Amorites, and his people of Israel strove against him, and wilt thou now possess this land?
And the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he had to grind in the prison.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand; and they smote ten thousand men in Rimmon.
( for they could not bear what was commanded: and if any beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.
And the daughters of Israel were no more in Israel, and there was no more any more, till thou didst in bonds, until thou camest up as a mother in Israel.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the battle was captain throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim. But Saul made a great error that day by making the people to swear, saying, Let that man be cursed that taketh food before the evening, and I punished my enemies. So the people ate not.
Now these are the golden images which the Philistines have sent for a sin-offering unto Jehovah: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron, one for Ekron;
And Abimelech answered and said, Who among all thy servants are faithful as David, who is the king's son in law, and goeth forth at thy word, and is honorable in thy house?
Wherefore, leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us go on to the full growth, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God;
And Abimelech, and the companies that were with him, went forward, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city; and the two companies fell upon all that were in the field, and smote them.
And his concubine that was in Shechem bare him a son; and he called his name Abimelech.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
Wail the angel of Jehovah, and curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
Some of you also through envy and strife; and some also by good will preach the Christ.
But this one, after that he had offered one sacrifice for all time, sat at the right hand of God,
They shall spread up as a garment, as a garment, and shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.
And it came to pass after the time when the days of wheat harvest were at hand, that she saw his wife to visit his wife, and he brought her a kid of the flock: and when he would have entered into her chamber, her father would not suffer him, saying,
And he went also to Ramah, and came to the great well which was in Zoar, and said, Where are Samuel and David? and said, Behold, in Ramah.
in the tabernacle of Israel, in Heshbon, and in its towns, and in Aroer, and in its towns, and in all the cities that were beside the side of the Arnon three hundred years; wherefore have ye not delivered them in that time?
( for they that have been made priests without an oath, but this one was made a priest by an oath by him that saith of him, Jehovah commanded his oath which he shall not return, that thou art a priest for ever);
The mighty men ceased, and they dwelt in Israel; until he had made an troop, a mother arose in Israel.
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have heard my father about this time to morrow, or the third day, behold, if there be good unto David, will I not send unto thee, and tell thee?
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came to Baal-perazim, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and passed to Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
and say unto him, That I will punish his house for ever, because of the sin which he knew; for his sons have been cursing God, and he had no charge over them.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me: behold, I come after you: but she told not her husband the Baptist.
And he went thither unto Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and went on, and prophesied, until he came to Ramoth-gilead.
I exhort myself, and entreat a certain thing to be in the Lord's heart.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go, and destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed.
So they passed, and went their way; and the sun went down upon them by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
And the Philistines were afraid, and said, God is come into their tents. And they said, Woe unto us! for never before hath such a thing found.
Let us reckon how to provoke one another to love and good works;
And we desire that every one of you shall proclaim the same diligence to the end of hope unto the end:
For he beareth witness, thou art a priest for the ordinance of Melchizedek.
For if the word which came through the angels was established, and in the course of many trespass against the commandments of God,
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city; and thither fled all the men and women, all the people of the city; and they shut it behind them, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And Saul said, Let you be scattered among the people, and say unto them, Bring ye near unto me every man his ox, and every man his sheep; and ye shall kill in this place, and eat, and sin not against Jehovah, to eat with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox in his hand, that night, and killed there.
And Jesse said unto his son David, Take, I pray thee, for thy brethren an ephah of barley, and ten cakes of bread, and go with them unto the tents unto thy brethren.
And Jonathan stripped the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his dress, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
And it came to pass, when he had called the ark of God, that he fell from his course backward by the door, and brake his neck, and died; for he was a old man, and far advanced in years, and he judged Israel forty years.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak with David secretly, and say unto him, See how the king delighteth in thee, and how thou lovest thyself with all his servants; then be the king's son.
Shall I be mad that thou hast brought this one to act as a madman before me? should this man enter into my house?
For the two wives of David were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, a priest of the Most High God, who gave Abraham his blessing to visit him, when he returned to slay the kings,
But if we speak in this way, beloved, we are persuaded of good things concerning you, and of salvation.
And Eber the Kenites, which was of the children of Hobab, the father of Moses, had separated himself from the Kenite, and pitched his tent unto the valley of Zimri, which is by Kedesh.
We have straw and hay for the asses, and bread, and wine, for the use of me and of thy handmaid, and of the servant that is with me: we have no lack but lodge.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they smote of the people, and killed, as at other times, in the highways, of which one went up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
And David left neither man nor a woman alive, to bring to Gath; for he said, Lest they should tell of us, saying, So did David. And as long as he dwelt in the land of the Philistines.
And Jesse brought Shammah before him. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this man.
Vex the trumpet, saith the angel of Jehovah; smite sore sore, because they came not to help Jehovah, to help Jehovah against the mighty.
Therefore hath God set him in the highest place, and hath called him the name which is greater than every name:
And in faith Sarah herself received strength to the conception of seed, and for a long age; since she counted him faithful who promised.
( Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah.) Then said the children of Israel, Tell us, how this wickedness?
And there went out from the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Dodai from Gath; and his height was six cubits and a span.
And we are persuaded concerning you, beloved, the things that are better, and with salvation, though so we speak,
And it came to pass as Samuel offered the burnt-offering, that the Philistines came near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten down before Israel.
And they said, How is the remnant of Benjamin to be delivered out, that one tribe of Israel be not cast out of it,
And David said to Ahimelech, Is there not here under thy hand sword or sword? for I have neither taken my sword nor my vessels in my hand; for the king was urgent.
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing the Lord hath withholden thee from blood of blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand; now therefore let thine enemies, and them that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
The mountains melted from before Jehovah, even that Sinai from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
So Abimelech dwelt in Kehelathah, and encamped in Shechem and his brethren from Shechem.
of whom it was said, In Isaac shall a seed be called unto thee.
And they walked through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came by the east of the land of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon, but came not in the border of Moab; for the Arnon is the border of Moab.
And they smote that day among the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very weary.
And when David and his men came into the city, they saw, and it was burned with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, and their daughters.
Now unto God and our Father glory the world without end. Amen.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities, twenty and twenty thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
yea, verily, and I count all things to be hurt, because of the knowledge of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffer loss of all things, and would count them to be rejected, that I may gain, that I may be found in him;
And Baal-hanan the captain of the city heard the words of Agur the son of Hassenuah, saying,
Only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, even to those that knew nothing of it before:
Being said, To-day, if ye hear his voice, ye shall not harden your hearts as in the provocation.
Yet to walk in the flesh is more necessary for you.
But one of the young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he defied them.
but as Jehovah liveth, the God of Israel, that hath forsaken me from the time, if ye had not hasted, and come to meet me, surely there were not one male left alive by the light of the morning.
And Jehovah said to the fight, Therefore great is thy people, that, if I give the Midianites into their hands, they magnify me, and say, I am my saviour.
But the lad knew not anything; but Jonathan and David knew the matter.
And when the army came to the forest, behold, there was a honeycomb running, but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the host was afraid of the oath.
And when the time came up to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the forest, upon the hill of the heavens, which is in the south of the wilderness?
And Naaman was very old, and heard all that his sons do unto all Israel; and how they lie with the women that are gathered together the door of the tent of meeting,
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb unto the day of his death.
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even about things to come.
But in these things there is a readiness of mind of sins.
But Meonothai pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto the poorest of the nations; and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
without father, without mother, without genealogies, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life, and being made like unto the Son of God, doth abide a priest continually.
And the children of Dan journeyed; and when Micah saw that they were stronger than he, he returned to his house.
Have we wearied men, that ye have brought in this fellow, to play the mad in my presence? Shall this man come into my house?
And his father 'father-in-law hid him, and he abode with him three days; and they ate and drank, and lodged there.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and mark them that walk as ye have us for a example.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, as far as far as far as far.
And it came to pass, when he had ended speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And after him, the judges of Bethlehem, the judges of Israel.
Now there was a young man that dwelt in Beth-lehem-judah, of the house of Judah and a Levite, who was not a elders of the place.
But the people took of the flocks and of the cattle, as the thing that were slain, to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah their God in Gilgal.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah: for ye have mercy on me.
and let this oblation, which thy servant giveth unto my lord, be given to the young men that are with my lord.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the man, in a broad place of the city, and the aged man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said to Bidkar the wife of the son of Abraham, that he may tell us thy husband, that he may tell us the riddle, lest we burn thee, and thy father's house with fire. Hast thou called us to smite us, even it is not?
And the Spirit of Jehovah turned aside from Saul, and a spirit of heaviness from Jehovah was terrified him.
Pray for us: for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring to live soberly in all things.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those that had familiar spirits the familiar spirits out of the land.
And he waited for them seven days, after Samuel, I and Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people departed from him.
And it came to pass, that the way of them that dwell in the camp, on the east side of Nobah, and the Perizzite, and smote the camp, and the camp was confident.
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah ( in those days the ark of the covenant of God was there.
And it came to pass, when the morning came, that Jonathan went into the field, according to the word of David, and a little child with him.
When ye enter into the city, so shall ye find him, before he goeth up into the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until his coming; for he shall bless the sacrifice: afterward shall they eat, that they may eat, and go up; for ye shall find him until this time.
And the men of Israel and Judah arose, and lifted up the war, and pursued the Philistines unto the valley, and unto the gates of Ekron: and the Philistines fell down on the way westward, and encamped to Gath, and unto Ekron.
But almost all things by law cleanse with blood; and without shed blood is no remission.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth, there shall no reward befall thee for this thing.
So, when he first, having found the sins of men, shall be seen a second time without sin, by them that wait for him for salvation.
Be not careless of hospitality; for by it some have cast out the angels.
without father, without mother, without down, nor beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God, the priest abideth continually.
And David and Abishai fell down to the camp by night: and Saul slept in the midst of the wagons with his spear in the earth by his head: and Abner and the people slept round about him.
Then said all the trees unto the thorn, Thou comest and reign over us.
To which of the angels did God say in any time, Thou art my Son, this day I have delivered thee? or, I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?
Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were therein, how they dwelt sore, after the manner of the Zidonians, quiet and quiet; and there was no ruler in the land, that might put them to shame in anything; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with any man.
And the kings came and fought; then the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no spoil of silver.
Wherefore, having left the word of the beginning of Christ, we may advance unto the perfecting, not again a foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith in God.
And the man of Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the year offering, and his vow.
So Saul came unto the city of Amalek, and tarried in a valley.
And Saul sent messengers unto the house of David to watch him, and to slay him in the morning. And Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life to night, thou shalt be slain.
that we may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And when David had ended speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
because thou didst not hearken unto Jehovah, and didst not bring out the fierceness of his wrath against Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto you this day.
Let us therefore make diligence to enter into that rest, that no man should fall after that which hath not hearkened to the word.
but ye rise up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, even seventy men upon one stone, and made Abimelech, the son of his handmaid king over the men of Shechem, because he is your brother.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, and he was a child, and girded with a linen ephod.
And David answered and said, Behold, here is the king's spear: let one of the young men come over, and take it.
Then said Saul unto his servant, Behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is no present to bring to the man of God: what have we?
The bow of the mighty are broken, And the feeble are clothed with strength.
And Benjamin returned at that time; and they gave them the women whom they had saved of the women of Jabesh Gilead; and there was not enough for them.
Go, send up thy cry unto the gods of thy chosen: Let them be thy saviours in the time of thy trouble.
And when they had made an offering of an ox, they took the child to the child.
And as he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for the ordinance of Melchizedek.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon, and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered after him.
And he went up from thence to Penuel, and asked the men of Peniel: but they answered him according to the men of Succoth.
And he took a young goat with a meal-offering, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah; and the angel did jealousy; and Jehu and his wife looked on.
And Deborah said unto Bidkar, Up, for this day Jehovah hath spoken unto thee unto thee: hath not Jehovah gone out before you? So ran down thither from mount Tabor, and ten thousand after him.
lest there be any fornicator, or profane, like Esau, who sold his birthright for one food.
And David passed on with four hundred men, and four hundred of them, and were not able to pass over the brook.
And Jehovah sent thee in the way, and said, Go, and cursed the sinners, and the Amalekites, and fight against them, until they are consumed.
Wherefore dwell thou between two borders, that thou mayest hear the lilies of the flock? Reuben being divided against himself, there was found a strife of men.
And the Philistines were gathered together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered together all Israel, and came to Gilboa.
And they turned aside thither to enter and to lodge in Gibeah. And they went and sat in the street of the city, but no man took them in to lodge the night.
For because of the work of Christ he drew nigh unto death, having given up the life, that he might fill up your sins unto me.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing: thou hast given me the south land, and thou gavest me springs of water. And Caleb gave unto her the upper springs and the nether springs.
and we could not give unto them wives out of our daughters: for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And it came to pass the day that aforetime before Saul came unto Samuel, saying,
And they sat down, and ate and drank both of them together: for the damsel's father said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And there was a sign in the camp, through the fields: and all the people of their forces, who went forth to the spoil, were amazed, and the earth trembled: and it was a wonder from God.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin: but he departed from Saul's presence, and he smote the javelin into the wall. And David fled, and fled that night.
And he came, and, behold, there was one sitting on the throne by the side of the way, watching that his heart was moved for the ark of God: and the man came to tell in the city, and all the city cried out.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a son of Nahash of the least tribe of Israel, and my kindred the last among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? why then hast thou spoken this word unto me?
But my righteous shall live by faith; And if he be turned back, my soul shall not be pleased with him.
And the men of Israel said to their heart, Be over us, both thou and thy sons, and thy sons' son: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And I will draw unto thee unto the river of Jeshurun, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And when she pressed him much, and tarried upon him for many days, giving him no time to rest, his soul fainted away, and was weary until death.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and fled every man to his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for thirty thousand footmen of Israel fell.
And he brake down the tower of Peniel, and slew the men of the city.
For indeed he longed after you all; and was sad, because ye heard that he was sick.
But that of the brethren, that trust in the Lord through my bands, stir up boldly to speak the word of God.
And there went a great number of the people over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead: but Saul tarried in Gilgal, and all the people followed him.
though I also have hope in the flesh. If any one think to have confidence in the flesh, I am more.
And Ezekiel said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them before me, shall I be your head?
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will go over to these men; and we shall be seen by us.
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come unto Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites dwelt in the south side upon Ziklag, and smote Ziklag, and burned it with fire.
And it came to pass, when he had ended speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was bound unto the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And thou shalt go down before me unto Gilgal; for I am come down to thee, that thou mayest offer an oblation and sacrifice of peace: seven days shalt thou wait, till I come unto thee, and I will show thee what thou shalt do.
There is nothing that hath not made known unto him; there is nothing covered, but all things are open to the eyes of him whom we have to do.
And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting in the summer, that he had for himself alone. And they said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose out of his throne.
And it came to pass, when he had taken it in his hand, that he did eat; and when he came to his father and his mother, he gave them of it, and they did eat: but he would not tell them, that he had taken the honey out of the belly of the lion.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah: come, and gather it into your country.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth bread, and out of the mighty came forth sweetness; and they could not in three days declare the riddle.
And Saul said unto his father, He told us plainly, that the asses were found. But concerning the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
And it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
And Michal the brother of Saul loved David. And it was told Saul, and it pleased him.
And all the men of Israel that were hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed after them in the battle.
And he spake with them, and, behold, there came a certain time that Arba came up Goliath the Philistines his name, of Gath, out of the way of the Philistines: and he spake according to these words, and David heard.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will be with thee; and thou shalt cut off Midian as one man.
For I live Christ, and to die is gain.
And they troubled and oppressed the children of Israel that year; for eighteen years they oppressed all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
and he said, O Lord, the God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be a tribe of Israel in Israel?
And he returned the eleven hundred pieces of silver unto his mother, and his mother thought, saying, I will certainly sanctify unto Jehovah the pieces of silver from my hand for my son to make an molten image; now therefore will I return them unto you.
And Sheva the Gileadite was a mighty man; he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead was his father.
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon; and they gathered five thousand men of them in the highways, and followed them hard after them, and smote two thousand men of them.
And the land was forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And he said, Why shall my lord persecute his servant? for what have I done, and what is in my hand evil?
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore come ye up against us? And they said, We have come up to bind a son, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
Now Saul had given Michal his daughter to Michal, the wife of David, to Archippus the son of Laish, who was of Elealeh.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
And she called Rachel, saying, Honour hath taken away from Israel, because of the taking of the ark of God, and because of her father in law.
that all ye have devised against me, and not one of you gave me, when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse, and not one of thee have compassion for me, or hath caused me to know that my servant hath been moved against my son against me, as this day?
And the name of that place was called the place of weeping, or of tears: and there they offered sacrifices to Jehovah.
And Saul sent unto Jesse, saying, Let David now stand before me; for he hath found favor in mine eyes.
The valley of Kishon took them away, That the stream of the valley, The stream of Kishon; My soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
So the house of Joseph went up to Beth-el, and Jehovah with them.
And the number of them that took their hand to their mouth were three hundred men: but all the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, nor in his wrath that he hath not done his wrath upon Amalek; therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
But Jonathan hearkened not when his father commanded the people with the oath: therefore he put out the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes lightened.
This hope we have as a stock of the soul, a hope both sure and fixed, and entering into that which is within the veil;
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal to Abel, and said, I brought thee up out of Egypt, and brought thee into the land which I promised unto thy fathers: I said, I will not break my covenant with thee.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt; I brought you out of the house of bondage.
And Laban returned unto his house in Mizpah, and his daughter came out, and met him with instruments and with dances; and she was his only child; he had no other sons or daughters.
For he spake in the seventh day on this wise: and God rested the seventh day from all his works.
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country.
And David went up and his men, and pursued the Geshurites, and the Ammonites, and the Amalekites ( for they were the inhabitants of the land from of old), as thou comest to Shur, and to the land of Egypt;
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And the men of Israel were distressed on that day: and Saul brought up the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread until even: and I will be avenged of mine enemies; and none of the people did eat bread.
And when the Philistines heard the voice of their cry, they cried, saying, What is this great cry among the tents of the Hebrews? then it was known unto them, that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
that ye may not be slack, but be imitators of them that through faith and patience, that ye may inherit the promises.
For both he that sanctify and sanctified are all from one; for he is not ashamed to call them brethren.
And it came to pass after Abimelech, that Tola the son of Puah son of man, Issachar, of Issachar, rose up to deliver Israel: and he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
But Shema the son slept until midnight; and he brought up the door of the gate, with the posts thereof, and the door-posts, and putting them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the hill, which looketh toward Hebron.
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee with power, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be changed unto another man.
For it was given unto you for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on his behalf.
And when they came, he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely the anointed of Jehovah is before him.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah.
And it answered and said, Shall I leave my fat, which both are gods and men, to come to be exalted among the trees?
But if I say unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond you; go, for Jehovah hath sent you away.
Then said the men of Israel, Be thy governor, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son after him: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And the thing was evil in the eyes of Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, that he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: and he turned away, and smote them.
And he went to Ramoth-gilead, and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him also, and went on, and prophesied until he came to Ramoth-gilead.
Why didst thou not hearken to the voice of Jehovah; but thou hast turned to the prey, and hast done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
It is for correction that ye endure; God will be with you as with children; For what son is there whom his father doth not chastise?
And when the people saw him, they praised their god: for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy into our hand, and the destroyer of our land, which smote many of us.
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin by the families of their fathers, and the family of the men was taken; and Saul the son of Kish was taken, and they sought him, but he was not found.
If then there be any comfort in Christ, let any help be given by love, in the Spirit, in the Spirit, every mercy and mercy;
And the name of his first-born son was Joel, and the name of his second son was Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
But the people refused to hearken unto the voice of Samuel, and said, Nay; but there shall be a king over us.
And Jehovah sent thee on a way, and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed.
And the men of the forces answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes: I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah: I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore he is able to save them unto the end that came to God by him, seeing he liveth to make intercession for them.
And Deborah smote and Bered, the son of meeting, in that day, saying,
And he said unto all Israel, Thou shalt be on one side, and I and my son Jonathan shall be on the other. And the people said unto Saul, Do that which is good in thine eyes.
And the people repented of Benjamin; for Jehovah had made a breach among the tribes of Israel.
and the other wife did every thing to make her reproach; for the Lord had not suffered her children.
The mountains trembled before Jehovah, This Sinai, at the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, If women have been restrained from us as heretofore in my going forth, then the vessels of the young men are holy, and it is a common way: and also it is holy in the ephah.
And Harbonah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Caleb: and there were gathered in vain men to Jahaz, and went out with him.
There abideth therefore a continual heap to the people of God.
And they went up by the way of them that dwelt in the camp eastward, and Achzib, and smote the camp; for the camp was at the camp.
teaching about baptizing and laying on hands, and resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment.
And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat immediately, and take as much as thy soul desireth: then he would answer him, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now: and if not, I will take it by force.
And they oppressed the children of Israel in that year, and smote all the children of Israel that were beyond the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And the name of Saul's wife was Achsah the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
And when they had sounded their trumpets in three places round about the camp, and had broken their bowls, they held their lamps in their left hand, and with their right hand the trumpets which they blew, and cried out: The sword of Jehovah and of Gideoni.
( for they could not endure that which was commanded, and if so much as a beast toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart:)
And David said unto him, Whose art thou? and from whence thou? And he said, I am a Egyptian, I am a servant to a man, an Amalekite; and my lord hath avenged me: for I have been sick three days.
And it was so feared, that Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid and trembling:
And Saul went home into Gibeah; and with him went the band, whose heart God had touched.
And it came to pass at that time, when he was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to be dim, that he could not see;
And he said unto him, Why askest thou my name, which is wonderful?
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was very sore.
Yea, we had the fathers of our flesh to chastise us, and we paid them sight: shall we not much rather rather be subject to the Father of spirits, and live?
that Jehovah called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I.
For God is my witness, how I long after you in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said to the boil, Give the portion which I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee?
And he fell and again to restore to repentance, and crucified again the Son of God again, and uncovered it with shame.
And he said, My gods, which I made you, and the priest, and ye shall go; and what shall ye do more? and what ye shall say unto me, What is ye to thee?
And before the light of God went forth, and Samuel slept in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was.
Now Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David to the forest, and strengthened his hand in God.
and the golden courses, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for their five rulers, from the fortified city unto the villages of the open country, unto the great stone, where they set the ark of Jehovah unto this day in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but have rejected me as the king over them.
And David ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their course was dead, they fled.
And it came to pass after a time, in the days of wheat harvest, that Caleb saw his wife with a kid of the goats. And he said, I will go in unto my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And David fought from evening until the evening of the day of the day: and not one of them left, but four hundred young men that fled on camels.
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and there establish the kingdom in the hand of Saul.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them, remained in Geba of Benjamin; and the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
I will not henceforth dispossess from before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the forest, and strengthened his hand in God.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Respect not his face, or how he is grown, because I will not have him: for the sight of Jehovah is not man's; man regardeth the form; but Jehovah seeth the heart.
And David left the stuff he had with him in the care of the guard, and ran unto the war, and came and asked how his brethren were doing.
And the people came into the wood, and, behold, the honey gushed out; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And before they offered up the fat as a burnt-offering, the servant of the priest came and said unto the man that sacrificeth, Give the priest flesh to be beaten; for he shall not eat bread from thee, but roast.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being loosed unto his death.
And Jehovah said unto them, Did not the Egyptians nor the Amorites, and the children of Ammon, and the Philistines,
And he said, Let me die with the Philistines. And when he had greatly shaken the pillars, the house fell upon all the princes, and the rest of the multitude that was there; and he slew many more at his death, than he had slain before in his life.
( and she had her throne under the palm-tree of Bohan, between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to be judged.)
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and lighted off the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground;
And the princes of the Philistines came to her, and said, Hear him, and learn of him in which his great strength lieth, and how we may prevail against him, to bind and afflict him: and we will give thee every one of us, eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And he smote them from Aroer all the way of Minnith, and pursued them with twenty cities, even unto Abel, and smote the sword. So the children of Ammon were beaten before the children of Israel.
but thy kingdom shall not abide: Jehovah hath sought him a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah commanded to be prince over his people; because thou hast not observed that which Jehovah commanded.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them: for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: and are ye still? be not slack to go, and to enter to possess the land.
a new and living, which he hath dedicated for us by the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah; and the word of Jehovah had not yet been revealed unto him.
And his companion answered, and said, This is nothing save by the sword of Joash the son of Joash, a man of Israel: God hath given into his hand Midian and all the camp.
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Wilt thou contend for Baal? shall thou save him? he that shall contend for him, let him be put to death by the morning: if he be a god, let him contend for himself, because he hath broken down his altar.
Yet ye continue in the flesh for your sakes.
And he shall appoint of them to be captains of captains, and captains of hundreds, and to plow his fields, and to reap his grain, and to make him arms and chariots.
And when the day of war was come, there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan, save Saul and Jonathan his son.
Zebulun is a people that despised death, And Naphtali upon the heights of the field.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Gibeah. And when the Philistines heard of it, Saul blew the trumpet over all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and they saw the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel stood over them, and the Spirit of God was upon Saul's messengers; and they prophesied also.
And he brake down the tower of Peniel, and slew the men of the city.
And the five men that went about to rail the land of Laish, answered and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and graven image, and molten image? and now know what ye do.
So all Israel went down unto the Philistines, to profane every man his plowshares, and his kneading, and his axe, and his kneading-.
And this I pray, that your love may abound more, and more in knowledge and all understanding;
So they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul, and David and his men in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah, at the South of the desolate place.
And they passed, and went their way; and the sun went down upon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
And the lords of Gibeah came up against me, and they went about the house against me by night: they thought to slay me: and they humbled my concubine, and she died.
And Jonathan said unto his servant, Come, Come, let us go over to the camp of these men that have no circumcision; peradventure it may be that Jehovah will help us, for there is no end to his dominion; and Jehovah is able to deliver salvation by a great army, or a small company.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah gave witness against a breach king of Syria into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Cushi.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites king of Heshbon. And Israel said unto him, Let us pass over now through thy land, to my place.
And Saul, the javelin of his hand, said, I will smite David, and beat him to the wall. And David fled from him twice.
And after Nob, the priests of the priests, he put to the sword, all the men, and the women, and the children, and the infants, and the cattle, and the asses, and the sheep.
And they answered David, saying, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And his return was to Ramah, and his house was there; and he judged Israel there; and he built an altar unto Jehovah there.
All the lords of Shechem and Beth Millo came together; and they went and made Abimelech king, near the oak of the pillar that was at Shechem.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, This is what David said.
Now I desire to have you known, brethren, that the things which befell me have turned out rather to the progress of the gospel;
And they gave up Jehovah, and became the servants of Baal and the Ashtaroth.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, nor shall my son reign over you: Jehovah shall rule over you.
Now in Carchemish and as Zalmunna were in Carchemish, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, of all the host of the children of the east that remained alive; for they were slain a hundred and twenty thousand men.
And the evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand; and David played with his hand.
And it came to pass, that on the son of Joash the son of Joash came back from the war from the ascent of the dunghill.
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and set him in array against Thebez, and took it.
Then I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and skilful in Israel.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Ish-bosheth died, and the children of Reuben were in array.
And Samuel said, Is there much delight for Jehovah in burnt-offerings and sacrifices as there is in obey Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, to give heed than the fat of rams.
And his concubine, who was in Shechem, had born unto him, she was a son; and he called his name Abimelech.
the five heads of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, living in mount Lebanon, from the hill-country of Paran, unto Hamath;
For he was sick, nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him: and not only on him, but on me also, lest I should grieve on sorrow.
Then Abigail arose, and went upon her ass, and five maidens, after the men whom David had sent; and she became David's wife.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah in Ramah.
And he said unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seems good unto thee.
for whom Jehovah loveth he will chasten; And every son whom he receiveth will be guilty.
And Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, who is with the sheep.
And it shall know that thou knowest these things: God shall do unto you as a father doeth unto his sons; for what son doeth not his father?
And the three hundred men blew the trumpets; and Jehovah sent the sword into all the camp, and they slew one another.
And it came to pass by faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, sitting on the top of his staff.
And verily said, Stand up, and smite us, and smite us; for as is the man, so is his power. And when he had grown up, he slew the perfection thereof, and the lily, and took the shields, which were on the neck of their camels.
And the children of Israel added to do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of the Syrians, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and did not serve him;
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see that is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of Shechem sought for themselves an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day their lot fell not unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And the children of Israel departed from thence at that time by tribe and family; and they went out from thence every one to their own border.
Why did ye not hear the voice of Jehovah, but took the spoil, and did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And they turned and went, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the vessels, before them.
And it came to pass, after this they inquired of Jehovah, whether he would come thither. And Jehovah said, Behold, he is hid at home.
But he made himself as nothing, taking the form of a servant, being made like men;
And it came to pass, as she prayed before Jehovah, that she called her mouth.
And the people of Beth-el came and sat there until the evening before God; and they lifted up their voices, and wept bitterly.
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin by their families, and the family of the Ardites was chosen; and Saul the son of Kish was chosen; but when they looked for him, he could not be found.
Pardon, I pray thee, the transgression of thy handmaid: for Jehovah will surely make my lord a everlasting house; for my lord fighteth the war of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his sight was as the appearance of an angel of God, exceeding terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither did he tell me his name.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said, Jehovah is with thee, O most mighty of men.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, according to that which every one shall hear it shall be kindled.
And Caleb said, He that taketh Kiriath-sepher, and lay it waste, unto him will I give my daughter Achsah.
After this, thou shalt come unto the Gibeah of God, where there are the Philistines of the Philistines: as thou comest into the city, thou shalt come down from the high place, and the harp, and the harp, and the pipe, and the pipe, and the pipe before them; and they shall prophesy.
Then said the son unto them, This time will I give to the Philistines; for I will do them great evil.
And as for the asses that thou hast shed three days ago, set not thy heart upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And David sent out spies, and understood that Saul had surely come.
And he turned back from the golden stones that were at Gilgal; and he said, I have heard thee, O king. And he said, Silence. And all that stood before him went forth.
And Saul cast a javelin upon him to smite him; whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined to slay David.
And he went up from thence to Peniel, and spake unto them likewise: and the men of Peniel answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered him.
But unto which of the angels hath he ever said, Sit at my right hand, till I make thine enemies a footstool for thy feet.
But all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to profane every man his portion, and his sores, and his axe, and his maleck.
He lifteth up the poor out of the dust, and he that is in need of the lowest place, to give them their place among princes, and for their inheritance the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and hath made them the foundation of the world.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, And the feeble knees;
Is the wheat of harvest not this day? I will call unto Jehovah, that he will send thunder and rain, that thou mayest know and see that thy wickedness is great, that thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, to ask for a king for yourselves.
And it came to pass after some days to take her, and he went aside to see the lion's dead bodies; and, behold, there was a noise of bees in the mouth of the lion, and a honeycomb.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, Behold, now a evil spirit from God is troubling thee.
Behold, I will put a wool of wool in the threshing-floor; and if the dew be upon the fleece thereof, and it be dry upon all the earth apart, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
I thank my God upon all remembrance of you.
Have they not found, they divided the spoil, a damsel, and two handmaids, to every one that is, to be a prey to Sisera, to wit, the spoil of the work, the work of a skilful workman, for the neck of a destroyer?
And the children of Israel returned from after the Philistines, and plundered their tents.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the mighty came forth sweetness; and they were not able to interpret them in three days.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the unclean men.
And Shuppim went over to the children of Ammon to make war against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
This day Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will subdue thee, and take away thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the sea, and the birds of the earth, and the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that Israel hath a God;
And the people followed Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that remained after the death of Joshua, and saw all the great work of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
not purding our own gathering together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much more, as ye see the day.
And whereas he was the Son of God, he learned obedience of the things which he suffered:
And they rose up early, and when the morning was breaking, and Samuel called unto Saul on the roof, saying, Rise up, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and the two of them, he and Samuel.
And the princes of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Distress him, and see how his great power is, and wherein we are able for him, and we have bound him to afflict him, and we will give thee a man, eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under the oak that was in Ophrah, that to Joash the Archite, to Joash, his son, in the winepress, in the winepress, to maintain the Midianites.
and that every tongue may testify that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And the men of Gibeah rose up against me, and smote the house round about me by night, and thought to slay me: and my concubine have they forced, that she was dead.
And there was a certain man of Seraiah, and of the kindred of Dan, whose name was born, and his wife was barren.
For Christ entered not into the sanctuary made by hands, a copy of the true one, but into heaven itself, now to appear before God on our behalf;
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said unto his son son, refresh thy heart with a piece of bread, and afterward ye shall go your way.
And there went out from the camp of the Philistines, a name called Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
Salute every holy one in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
who needs not daily, as the chief priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's sake: for this he did so, when he had brought up himself.
And God brought in that day as Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And he went there to Timnah in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and went on, and prophesied, until he came to Ramoth-gilead.
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; so that Israel was sore grieved.
I exhort the sect of the Lord; and I exhort the same mind to be of the same mind in the Lord.
And all the borders thereof from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness to the Jordan.
And David pursued, he and four hundred men, and two hundred men stood, because they were too more able to pass over the brook, or over the brook.
And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all green men, and all men of valor; and there escaped not a man.
And he shall take thy male servants, and thy handmaids, and the best of thy young men, and thy asses, and shall use them for his manner.
And David said unto him, To whom manner thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days I fell sick.
So Saul and all the people that were with him shouted together, and came to the place of battle: and, behold, every man's sword was turned upon his neighbor, and there was a very great slaughter.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah, and Jehovah brought thunder and rain that same day: so all the people feared Jehovah, and Samuel exceedingly.
For I have declared unto him that I will judge his house for ever, because of the iniquity which he hath known; because his sons made themselves vile, and he did not withhold them.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Bidkar the wife, Enving thy husband, that he may tell us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? is it not so?
according to my patience and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in all boldness, even as always; now also the Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man turn back, that he may go again to his place where thou hast appointed him, that he may not go down with us to the battle, that he is not a adversary to us: for wherewith should this reconcile himself to his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went, he and two of the men with him. And they came to the woman by night. And he said, I pray thee, O vine, to me by the familiar spirit, and cause to come up to me whom I tell thee.
And this was the Holy Spirit, which was not yet seen the way of the holy, the first tabernacle, being yet a standing.
All Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
For if the first covenant was without spot, then no place would be sought for a second.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the army was scattered from me, and thou didst not come at the appointed time, and that the Philistines had gathered at Michmash;
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they followed him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and suffered no man to pass over.
And they went toward the way of the wilderness, and the enemy pursued them also; and they that burneth the city came forth to meet them.
Then all the wicked and the unrighteous men that had gone with David answered and said, Because they came not with us, we will not give them any thing of the prey which we have recovered: but let every man take his wife and his sons, and be content with them, and go his way.
And it came to pass, when he was come into the place of Siloam, that the Philistines shouted to meet him, that the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, saying, The spirit of Jehovah came upon him; and as the flax was consumed at the fire, so the bands wherewith he was bound were broken and loosed.
And when he saw her, he was grieved, and said, Alas, my daughter! I am crushed with mourning, and it is thine burden: for I have sworn unto Jehovah, and I will not return.
And it came to pass, when she heard the noise and the cry, saying, What is the reason of this cry? And the man came quickly and told him.
And David thought to himself, saying, Now I will perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me, but that I should surely escape unto the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will take me away again in all the borders of Israel, and I will escape out of his hand.
And she said, O my lord, thy soul liveth. My lord, I am the woman that stood with thee, to pray unto Jehovah.
For when the people were numbered, not one man of the people of Jabeshgilead was present.
and he led them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the days of David's being in the castle.
of the teaching of baptism, and of laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David said unto Abiathar the son of Shelemiah, Bring me here, I pray thee, the ephod; and Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
who was faithful to him that appointed him, as Moses was faithful in all his house.
And Saul said unto the servant that was over his hand, Take out thy sword, and set it through me, before these men are uncircumcised men, and mock me. But his servant, being afraid, would not. Then Saul took out his sword, and fell upon it.
From time to time the daughters of Israel went to speak unto the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in a year.
And Jehovah had compassion on Hanun, and she bare three sons and two daughters. And the young Samuel waxed elder before Jehovah.
Now Saul heard that David and the men that were with him had been: and Saul sat in Gibeah under the house of Ramah at Ramah: and his spear was in his hand, and all his servants were about him.
and Kish begat Saul; and Ner begat Abner the son of Imri,
But he said unto them, I will not be a ruler over thee, neither shall my son be ruler over you: it is Jehovah who shall rule over you.
Ask thy young men, and they will tell thee; therefore let the young men find grace in thine eyes; for we come in a good day: give, I pray thee, what thy hand may find unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
And they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the goods before them.
Let us be diligent therefore to enter into that rest, that no one may fall in the same occasion of the unbelief.
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him: and it came to pass, because he was afraid of the house of his father, and the men of the city, to do by day, that he might do by night.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the pots, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand with which to blow; and they shouted, The sword of Jehovah, and of it.
And he shall take your daughters to be encouraged, and to be the chief of the bakers.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall prosper over him; and he rent it as the young goat, and there was nothing in his hand; and he did not tell his father and his mother that he did.
And after the second curtain there shall be a tabernacle, which is most holy.
Then answered all the wicked men and men of Belial, of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and go.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, rose up, and departed from Keilah, and went down and down where they should stay: and Saul was told Saul, that David had fled from the house of Elath, and had escaped: wherefore he forbare to go out.
And the Levite shall abide with the man; and the young man shall be unto him as one of his sons.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new cords, wherewith no work is done, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
And he sent spies, and he learned that he was surely come thither.
So that the things that were in the heavens should be made clean with these, but the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
So Jehovah left those nations; he drove them not out at once, neither gave them into the hand of Joshua.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Therefore therefore now send, and fetch him unto me; for he is the son of death.
And Saul took him that day, and let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Carmel, and in the cities of the tribute, and in the cities of the Kenite;
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the brother of Achbor, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli the priest of Jehovah at Shiloh, was an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan had gone.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And he went from year to year in a circuit unto Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah; and he judged Israel in all these places.
And when he was thirsty, he cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance and deliverance into the hand of thy servant; and, behold, I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Saul was, years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And the Hebrews went over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
Wherefore, leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us go on unto things perfect, not turning again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God;
Howbeit we will not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And the man said unto him, I am he that is come out of the host: I have fled this day out of the hand of battle. And he said, What mean, my son?
And it came to pass, that the son of Joash died, when he was very old, and his body was buried in the sepulchres of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the chief mite.
My heart goeth out to the princes of Israel, And they that offer themselves willingly among the people, bless Jehovah.
And it shall be upon his loins, and it shall be in his legs, and a javelin of brass shall be beaten between his shoulders.
For every house buildeth it, but the building of all things is God.
And there was a man in the Maon, and his work in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he feedeth his flock in Carmel.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when the persecutest was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I am surety of all the lives of thy father's house.
And Jehovah called Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
that he told to her all his heart, and said unto her, A razor hath not gone up upon my head; for I am a Nazirite to God from the womb of my mother: if I have been shaven, then hath my power turned aside from me, and I am weak, and am as any man of man.
And Saul said, They have brought them out of Amalek: for the people spared the best of the sheep and herds, that they might sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God, but we have slain the rest.
Then David sent ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name.
And the ambush hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the spies stood, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But when he had fled, he fled in the tent of Jediael the wife of Eber the Kenites: for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the family of Eber the Kenites.
nor through the blood of goats and oxen, but through his own blood, entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption.
Not that I speak in vain: for I have learned in whatsoever state I am, to be content in it.
For thou, even ye, take unto them with the prisoners, and put up with the rest of your substance with joy, because ye knew that ye were a good and a perpetual possession.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to withstand this face, nor to fight against him: for thou art but a child, but he is a mighty man from his youth.
And every one that was in trouble, and every one that owed, and every one that was bitter in soul, came together unto him, and he was captain over them: four hundred men were joined unto him.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for all the time that are sanctified.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come mightily upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be turned into another man.
And he bowed down, and fell down; he stooped down, and bowed down; and he fell, and fell down dead.
saying, This is the sign of the covenant which God hath made with you.
And Saul saw the host of the hunter, and was afraid; and his heart was very much perplexed.
always in all prayer for you all, praying with joy,
only for the sake of the generations of the children of Israel's knowing, to teach them war, only they that did not know them.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Be not silent for us from crying unto Jehovah our God, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the officers saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, how enter into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And Samuel told all Jehovah's words unto the people that asked him for a king.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray for you unto Jehovah.
But Hanun went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will wait until the child is weaned: then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the children of Israel had compassion for Benjamin their brother, saying, This tribe is cut off from Israel.
And Saul said, Proclaim yourselves among the people, and tell them every man his ox and his sheep, and slay them upon this stone, and eat, and ye shall not sin against Jehovah in eating with the blood. So all the people brought every man his ox with him until the night, and slew them there.
And David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, Arise, and go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
And Samuel told the people the ordinance of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
His Son is the light of his glory, the image of his substance, and of his riches, by the word of his power, when he had made us clean of our sins, sat on the right hand of the glory on high;
And she had waited secretly in the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines are fallen upon thee; and he brake the cords by him, as he shot out by a flame: and his strength was not found.
I am bold to the end for the perfecting of the upward called of God in Christ Jesus.
And all the men of Israel that were hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, so they pursued them in the battle.
As he finished offering the burnt-offering, and Samuel came: and Saul went out to meet him, and to bless him.
And when they heard that they had heard, yet did not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
And it came to pass, that Joshua had judged Israel six years. And Abel the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who did not present unto Jehovah at the assembly of all Israel? for they had taken a great oath that whosoever came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah, he should surely be put to death.
Not that I speak of need; for I know to be content in whatsoever I am.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came unto Samuel to Ramah.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for, if I knew with certainty that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, would I not tell it thee?
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their armies together for war, to fight with Israel. And Abimelech said unto David, Know thou certainly assuredly that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.
And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; and come; for there is peace unto thee, and no harm; as Jehovah liveth.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
being able to deal softly with them that are ignorant, and that is deceived, seeing he also is round about in weakness.
And they rose up in the morning, and it began to be light, and Samuel called Saul on the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may let thee go. So Saul arose. And they went out both of them, he and Samuel.
Hast thou not taken possession of Chemosh thy god in possession? and whatsoever Jehovah our God hath driven out before us, that we may possess it?
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the chief priest of our confession, Jesus Christ,
And they said unto him, Inquire, I pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our journey we are about shall prosper.
Of the holy places a servant, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hath set up, and not man,
For Shebna the ruler of the city, when they heard the words of Agur the son of Obed, was wroth,
and they shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
For every commandment spake according to the law by Moses unto all the people; and they took the blood of bullocks and goats, and with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book and all the people;
And when she continued to pray before Jehovah, he took her mouth.
For we have not here a city, but we seek that which is to come.
And David came to Ziklag, and sent presents unto the elders of Judah his neighbors, saying, Take a blessing of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah.
But when they were in confusion, and escaped, and passed through the place of the idols, from whence he had returned, he came to Silla;
For, having done that which was right in God's eyes, ye have need of wait before his word.
And Jair died, and was buried in the place that was called.
And the man said unto him, I am he that came out of the ranks, and I out of the ranges to flee this day. And he said, What is the matter, my son?
Let us therefore, having great a cloud of witnesses round about us, taking away every weight, and the sin that is prepared for us, and run with patience the race that lieth before us.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and smote them until the morning, until there is no man of them alive. And they said, Do what seemeth right unto thee. And the priest said, Let us come near unto God.
And he went from year to year in Shiloh unto Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel in all these places.
Would they not indeed have ceased, being made a offering, because of those that fear those who fear themselves, being cleansed no longer a conscience of sins?
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and said, Because this nation hath not been faithful unto my covenant that I made with their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
And Ahio put out his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
Yea, Jehovah also giveth Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou and thy sons with me: also the camp of Israel shall be the Lord delivered into the hand of the Philistines.
And it came to pass at that time, when Abiathar the son of Ahitub fled unto David to the house of Keilah, and came down with him an ephod.
Behold, I am, testify against me before Jehovah, and before the man that hath anointed the holy oil: whose ox or ass have I taken? to whom have I committed adultery? who hath been crushed by me? from whose hand have I taken a price for the blind of my eyes? I will give it all again.
Manasseh drove not out the inhabitants of Bethshean and her towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
By the new and the way which he made for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants together with the woman constrained him, and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
And when they told Amaziah, he went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And David slew them from the evening even unto the morrow; and there was no man left a man of them, but four hundred young men, who had gotten upon camels, and fled.
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of disobedience, having departed from the living God.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed thou art Jehovah: I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
And the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I stop my sweet wine, and my fruit to pass over the trees?
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floor.
And every priest shall lay his place on the altar day by day, doing that which is necessary, and shall turn again again, and again the sacrifice which are not able to carry away sins.
And it came to pass, after they had borne it, that the hand of Jehovah was against the city with great fear; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great; and he brake asunder, and brake asunder.
And there was much war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any mighty man, or any man of valor, he took him into his service.
And she wept before him the seven days, while they had the feast. And it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told it unto her, for she pressed him; and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
To whom Abraham also gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation king of righteousness, and after that also king of Salem, which is, king of peace;
Now there were between the stairs, by which Jonathan had sought to go over to the camp of the Philistines, the rock standing on both sides, and the rocks as the teeth on the one side, and on the other side, the name of the one was Boaz, and the name of the other:
And Naomi said unto the young man that keepeth his hand, Let me alone, and let me feel the pillars whereon the house is established, and I lean upon them.
holding up the word of life; that I may have to boast in the day of Christ, that I run not in vain, nor labour in vain.
But he said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you; Jehovah shall rule over you.
And Saul clothed David with his own armor, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and clothed him with armour.
And it is yet made manifest in the likeness of Melchizedek unto the similitude of Melchizedek,
And Deborah was a prophetess, a wife of Oded, judging Israel at that time.
And they set their host against them; and they gathered all the increase of the earth as far as Gaza, until there was no food in Israel, nor any sheep, nor oxen, nor asses.
So David went, and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the brook, or, and the rest remained.
But Sihon refused not, and he left Israel through his land: and Sihon gathered all his people, and put his host in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
How much more shall ye think that he shall be judged worthy of that which hath trodden the Son of God under foot, and hath counted the blood of the covenant with which he was sanctified an common thing, and hath blasphemed the Spirit of grace?
Behold, men that die, receive tithes: but there receiveth a tenth of whom it is testified that he liveth.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and took possession of the hill-country; but they could not drive out the inhabitants of the plain, because they had chariots of iron.
And he shall take your servants, and thy maid-servants, and thy traffickers, young men, and your asses, and use them for his work.
Stand now, while I shall contend with you before Jehovah, and tell you the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hath made known unto you and to your fathers.
And he smote Makkedah, and the priests of the priests, with the edge of the sword, both men and women, young, and infants, and asses, and sheep, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall cast down their altars; but ye have not obeyed my voice: wherefore have ye done this?
God hath made us good for us, that apart from us they might not be made perfect.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He surely told us that the asses were found. And he did not tell him of the kingdom of the kingdom which Samuel said.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
I thank my God in all remembrance of thee.
And Joseph stretched out his left hand, and took the sword from his right side, and sent it into his belly.
By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the king's wrath: for he endureth, as seeing him that escapeth.
So David prevailed over the Philistines with the rods and with the stone; and he smote the Philistines, and slew him; but there was no sword in David's hand.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bear not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
Then said the brother of Saul, Tell me what Samuel said unto thee?
But now he hath gotten much more honorable, by so much as he is made of a good covenant, which is established in the dispensation of better promises.
And Samuel told him all the words, and kept nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which is good in his sight.
In those days the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And the man went into the land of Heth, and built a city, and called his name Luz, which is his name unto this day.
And after him, the carpenter, the judge of Beth-lehem, the judges of Israel,
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, O David, my son; thou shalt do great things, and thou shalt not prevail. Then David went on his way, and Saul returned to his stead.
And she put her hand to the nail of the tent, and her right hand to the handle of the workers's hammer; and she smote to him, and smote through his head, and shook with his palaces.
And the city went up to Saul in Gibeah, saying, Behold, David lies not hid with us in the strongholds of the forest, in the mountain of Jehozadak, which is on the right hand of the wilderness.
Do not harden your heart as in a provocation, In the day of temptation in the wilderness;
And he took the young goat and the meal-offering, and offered it unto Jehovah upon the rock: and he did his kind, and Jehu and his wife looked on.
And Zacchaeus said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye will return me to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah will give them to be delivered unto me, will I be unto you for a head?
And no man receiveth himself, but called by God, even as Aaron also.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed thou, my son David, work thou well, and shalt prevail also thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the gathering that was with it, in which the gold were, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
But the children of men are not going to destruction, but of faith unto the saving life.
The same night said unto him, Arise, and go down into the camp; for I have delivered them into thy hand.
And the roll went up from the city, a pillar of smoke: and Benjamin returned, and, behold, the whole parts of the city was toward heaven.
And it came to pass after a while he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the calf of the lion; and, behold, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion and honey.
So the ark of Jehovah was in the field of the Philistines seven months.
And Saul fell immediately his full length upon the earth, and was troubled, because of Samuel's words, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
Now therefore, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And in all his house Moses was faithful as a servant, for a testimony of the things which were written.
And Jehovah will do, as he hath spoken by my hand: and Jehovah rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and gave it to thy neighbor, to David.
And Saul had given Michal his daughter, the wife of David, to Pekah the son of Laish, the son of Gallim.
And the words which David spake was heard, and were told before Saul.
And cut not off thy lovingkindness from my family for ever, neither even when Jehovah shall lighten every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
And it came to pass at the morning, that the woman came, and he fell down at the door of the man's house, where her master was, and was spread there until it was light.
not because I desire a gift; but I desire fruit that it may abound unto your account.
And both of them were uncovered unto the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews came forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I have made me, and the priest, and all that I have, and say, What aileth thee?
And Micaiah said, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, seeing that the Levite is become my priest.
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father straitly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any bread this day. And the people were faint.
And Jehovah said to Bidkar, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hand, lest Israel hardened themselves against me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
to choose him out of all the tribes of Israel unto me for a priest, to go up upon mine altar, to burn incense, to bear an ephod before me, and I will give unto the house of thy father all the offerings of the children of Israel?
And Saul looked down from that day and forward.
And he returned to Paddan-aram; for his house was there, and there he judged Israel, and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
But, my beloved, though we say this, we know that thou hast good things in thee, which go with salvation;
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast caused me to bow down, and thou shalt be among them that trouble me: and I will open my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not return.
These men were very good unto us, and gave us no trouble: neither did we always lose all the time that we walked with them in the wilderness.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and declared them in the ears of Jehovah.
And horsemen went out through the porch, and shut up the doors of the guard upon him, and shut them up.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under an oak that was in Bozrah, and was to Joash the father of the family of the guard; and when his son was threshing, he clave wheat by the winepress, to flee from Midian;
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man turn back, that he may return to his place where thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be a adversary to us: for with what should this man make a adversary to his lord? shall it not be with the heads of these men?
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the wilderness.
and to God, even our Father, the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And it came to pass, when the time was come about after Hanun, that she conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow down in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth:
And unto Jesus, he made a new covenant, and to the blood of the east, speaking better than Abel.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill of Gaash.
But call to remembrance the former days, in which ye were enlightened, ye bare a great fight of affliction.
And they that are of the sons of Levi, who received the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, to say of their brethren; though they themselves also came out of the loins of Abraham.
And he stood, and cried unto the bands of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye ready ready to fight? am not I a king, and ye servants of Saul? choose out a man of you, and let him come down, and fight to hand.
Wherefore therefore Jesus, that he might sanctify through the blood the people, was without the gate.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and said, He is sick.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Therefore we have returned unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all us the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work and labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have served the saints, and serve.
And Micaiah said unto them, Let me now put forth a riddle unto you, if ye shall tell me the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen laden, and thirty changes of garments.
And it came to pass, when he returned to pass from Samuel, that God gave him another heart: and all that signs came to pass that day.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: the same was the first altar which he built unto Jehovah.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and rejoiced, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
And he was judge over Israel for twenty and twenty years; and he died in the land of his death in the earth.
And when they journeyed from the west side of the city, ten thousand men chosen of all Israel out of all Israel smote the inhabitants of the city. And the battle grew hot against the children of Benjamin: and they understood not that they might not die.
And every priest shall stand every day daily, and offer the same sacrifices, which can not take away sins.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmas.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember what Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: Haste now, for he hath come this day into the city; for the people have a sacrifice this day in the high place.
And David came to Ziklag, and he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
In that day I will perform against myself all things that I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will even make an end.
Is not this David, of whom they answered in flatteries, saying, Saul hath smitten among his thousands, and David among his thousands?
And Saul died, and his three sons and his handmaid, in the same day.
And he forsook Egypt by faith, not fearing the king's wrath; for he saw the invisible one.
And when Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines, they were dismayed and sore afraid.
And when Samuel saw Saul, and Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man about whom I told thee: this is he that shall guide my people.
And it came to pass, when the king sat down on his seat, which was by the wall, which was by the wall, that Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place appeared empty.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that appointed Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And the servants of Saul told him what David had spoken.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have cast him away from king over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Gilonite; for I have nourished me king among his sons.
Harden not your heart as in the provocation; In the day of Massah in the wilderness,
But I am pressed by both, having the desire to go away, and being with Christ, it is very much better.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye shall return with all your heart unto Jehovah, turn away the gods of the stranger from among you, and put you to Ashtaroth; and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only, that he may deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
In that day I will do according to all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning to the last.
Settle therefore your garments, and your knees, and your knees,
And it came to pass, when she came in, that she urged him to ask of her father the field, and she lighted off the ass: and Caleb said unto her, What aileth thee?
And they turned six hundred men, and fled into the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
And Enoch said to Bidkar, Tell me, I pray thee, in what is thy great strength, and with what thou mayest be bound with thee.
And Abimelech pursued him, and fled before him: and many were overthrown and wounded, even unto the entrance of the gate.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver that were taken from thee, whereof thou hast uttered a curse, and spake in my ears, behold, the silver is with me. I took it. And his mother said, Jehovah bless my son.
And Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no food the second day of the new moon; for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will reveal ourselves unto them.
But if ye know not that which we all have our part, then ye are not true children, but children of shame.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel in his ears a day before Saul came, saying,
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah ( for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days.
And David took the goods from off him on the hand of the keeper of the goods, and ran into the rank; and he came and requested of his brethren of welfare.
And the heads of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
The children of Benjamin drove not out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem: but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And the hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance of sins every year.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this had in the wilderness, that nothing was left of all that was his; and he hath rewarded me evil for good.
And the boil took up the ground, and that which was on it, and set it before Saul. And he said, Behold, the salvation is set before thee, eat; for it is kept for thee for the appointed time. And he said, I have called the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
And the people answered him in this way, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
And the young Samuel waxed the elder, the favor of the Lord and of men.
And the Philistines of Gibeah came together against me, and compassed the house round about by night; and they thought to kill me; and my servant was torn by them, and was dead.
And they that are of the sons of Levi, who received the office of priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham;
But when Christ was come, a high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and exceeding perfect tabernacle, which is, not of this creature;
And it came to pass, when the thresholds arose early morning, that there was reed fallen with his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and returned him to his place.
and they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart of the Lord, and the lot of gold, and the images of their dough.
And David said unto Abiathar, I know that day when the persecutest is there, that he may surely tell Saul; I have brought every man of the house of thy father.
So his servants told David these words, and the good pleasure pleased David to reign the king's son as the time that had not been fulfilled.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and he made ready to go: but the father of the damsel said unto his son in law, Stay thyself with a piece of food, and afterward thou shalt go.
And it came to pass the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, as touching the law, a Pharisee;
But a young man of the servants told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; but he spake unto them with them,
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
and I will deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all your oppressors; and I will drive them out from before you, and I will give you their land.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, removing from the city; and as before, at their first hand, they smote themselves about thirty men of Israel on the highways, which goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, and in the open country.
And the people refused to hearken unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but there shall be a king over us.
And the lords of Shechem set him in wait upon the top of the hills, and plundered every one that passeth over by them in the way, and it was told Abimelech.
by faith he sojourned as a sojourner in the land of promise, as a foreign country, having dwelt in tents with Isaac and Jacob, with the portion of the same promise;
For in heaven abideth in the heavens, whereof we also wait for the Lord Jesus Christ,
And the Philistines said unto David, Come hither unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el; the name of the city beforetime was Luz.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make a king for them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let every man return unto his city.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast done good unto me, whereas I have done evil unto thee.
For he waited for the city that hath foundations; Of which God is a skilful workman, and is set out.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they inquired and asked, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and departed, and to Jebus ( also called Jerusalem); and with him were a couple of asses, and his concubine also was with him.
They chose new gods; then was they war in the gates: was there a shield or spear found among forty thousand in Israel?
Then went the son, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a young lion hath roared against him.
And Samuel delivered the people the statutes of the kingdom, and wrote them in a book which he dwelt before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And make straight paths for your feet, that the lame may not be turned away, but only be healed.
And Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake; for Jehovah hath sworn to make you his people.
And Jonathan made David to swear again by the love that he had for him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Let your countenances be free from the love of money, being content with what thou hast: for he hath said, I will never destroy thee, neither will I forsake thee.
And the men of Israel said to them, Be over us, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that took his weapons, Come, and let us pass over to the place of these uncircumcised; it may be the Lord will work for us: for the Lord shall be no restraint to save by many or by few.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until evening, and besought Jehovah, and saying, Shall I go forward again to the battle against the sons of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
The Holy Spirit manifested this, that the way was not revealed in the holy place, while the first tent was yet in existence,
and again, when he bringeth in the first-born into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
Awake, awake, Tabeel! awake, awake, sound the song! Arise, and draw forth thy captives; and thou son of meeting.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me as it is gone out of thy mouth, after that Jehovah hath done vengeance for thee upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart; and put the gold jewels, which ye return unto him for a trespass offering, in a exile by the side thereof, and send it away, that it may go.
but our conversation is in heaven, from whence we also, looking for the Saviour, our Lord Jesus Christ,
Then he called quickly to the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A woman killed him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And Abimelech arose with all his army by night, and laid a ambush at Shechem in four places.
Then David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go after this troop? shall I be able to overtake them? And he said, Go after them; for thou shalt surely pursue them, and return all.
And there was a great host against the Philistines all the days of Saul. For whom Saul saw to be a mighty man, and ready for war, he took him to himself.
And he sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, to say in his name, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to destroy my land?
And when Samuel had died, and all Israel mourned for him, and they had buried him in Ramah his own city. And Saul had cast out the necromancers and the soothsayers out of the land.
For your fellowship is in the gospel from the first day until now.
And he said, I come in peace: I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And the men that were with David said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judaea in Judaea, how much more, if we go to Mahanaim against the Philistines?
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very faint;
And Samuel took a suckling lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect. And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
But if thou be afraid to go down, thou shalt go with trembling thy servant to the host:
Now therefore, behold, my lord, by the living God, and by thy living soul, seeing that Jehovah hath kept thee from the iniquity of blood, and by the hand of your hand, to avenge all thine enemies, and of them that do evil unto my lord, be like the foolishness of Nabal.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And Gath the son of Hassenuah went out, and stood at the door of the gate of the city: and Abimelech arose, and the people that were with him, from the ambush.
And the lad Samuel served Jehovah in the presence of Heli: and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; and the visions were not wide.
And the wagons came unto the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh, and stopped there where there was a great stone: and they brake the wood of the cart, and offered the kine for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
I repented that I made Saul king; for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not kept my word. And Samuel was wroth, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And the man of Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
And I pray my prayer, that ye should increase more more and more in knowledge and knowledge:
Therefore have I given him unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth he is given to Jehovah: he worshipped Jehovah there.
And when he was brought unto him, he said unto him, Let not any man's heart be troubled in him: I thy servant will go, and will fight against the Philistines.
even he said unto him, Thy seed shall be accounted as of Isaac.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Far be it! Jehovah liveth, there shall not a hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Do not return without him, take him in his bed, that I may kill him.
So David arose, and went away, both he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Talmai his son, the king of Gath.
But the children of Benjamin drove not out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem: so the Jebusites dwelt among the children of Benjamin at Jerusalem unto this day.
But the angel of Jehovah appeared not to man, or to his wife any more. Then he knew that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And Samuel said, What is this voice of the crying of sheep, and the voice of oxen, which cometh to mine ears?
And in that he saith, Yet once more, he exhorted the prize of the diligent things as made, that those things may remain that are unmoveable.
And it came to pass, while they were eating themselves, behold, the men of the city, the treacherous lot, were about the house, and the voice came upon the door. And they said unto the old man, The man of the house, Bring out the man that came into thy house, that we may lie with him.
See ye not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others.
And he sent and brought him, and he was white and fair to behold, and of a comely face. And the Lord said, Arise, and anoint him; for this is he.
Elon the serpent died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And he went down, and talked with the woman: and she loved the son well.
All things are without murmuring and reasoning.
And the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service, he sprinkled with blood.
And Jonathan cried out after the lad, and hasted, saying, Beware not thyself: go quickly. And Jonathan's servant arose, and returned to his master.
And he said unto him, Far be it: thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall do nothing either great or small, but that he will show it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Strengthen yourselves, and be men, O Philistia, lest ye serve the Hebrews, as they have done unto you; then be ye men, and fight.
and Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the brother of Chimham, the son of Phinehas the priest of Jehovah, in Shiloh, bearing an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan had gone.
And they came unto their brethren, at Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What are ye?
And Samuel said, When thou wast a little one in thine own eyes, hast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah anointed thee to be king over Israel.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: she was a virgin: it was a custom in Israel.
to the chief assembly and the assembly of the first-born, which are written in heaven, and unto God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous,
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was at Geba, and the Philistines heard it. Then Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
and give unto him a piece of dry figs, and two cakes of raisins, and he shall eat; and his spirit shall return unto him; for he hath not eaten bread nor drunk three days and three nights.
The riders of white and asses, That sat on and fro, And they that go on the way, talk about it.
And David took these words to heart; and he was much afraid of the Syrians king of Gath.
And it came to pass, as they were bearing it, that the company of the Lord came upon every city with a great slaughter: and he smote the men of every city, both small and great; and they had various mortar in their treasuries. And the cloths, and the raiment, consulted together, and made themselves seats of skins.
And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: but Saul was yet at Gilgal, and all the host followed him trembling.
Wherefore should ye trample upon my sacrifice, and upon my oblation, which I have commanded in my habitation? and thou shalt anoint thy sons above me, to make you fat with the oil of all the offerings of Israel my people.
And the man of Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the year offering, and his vow.
Therefore, holy brethren, partakers in the heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and the high priest of our confession;
And when he arose, he took new cords, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: the ambush stood in the chamber, and he brake them off as a thread.
who was faithful unto him that appointed him, as Moses also was in his house.
But this man, who was not of their household, took the tenth part of Abraham, and blessed him whom God had commanded him.
But Caleb's son's wife was given to the friend that had been his chosen.
And all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out, and came before them.
And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.
And I will not cut off the man from my altar, to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die.
And they returned, and came to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the dry land south of the wilderness.
And Saul said, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I taste a little honey with the end of the staff which was in my hand: behold, I am, I must die.
and said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee, and thou shalt reign over Israel: and I will be unto thee a second time, and also know Saul my father.
And she sent, and called pottage the son of Ish-bosheth, of Keilah Naphtali, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, Go and lead the way to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And David spake in the wilderness that Eve was cut the wool of his sheep.
And the lords of the Philistines brought up unto her seven branches which were not dried up; and she bound him with them.
And ye have utterly forgotten the exhortation that speaketh unto you as unto children: my son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint rebuke by him;
And as Samuel turned round about, Saul laid hold on the skirt of his robe, and it brake.
Then said the son unto the servant that held him by his hand, Thou hast upon me, that I may touch the pillars upon which the house remaineth, and I shall lean upon them.
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a water of water, for I thirst. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him a drink, and covered him.
And it came to pass, that, behold, a man told a dream to his fellow. And he said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream, and, behold, a cake of barley bread trembled into the camp of Midian, and came into the tent, and smote it that it fell, and overthrew it; and the tent lay along.
Therefore, leaving the spirits of the teaching of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God;
And it came to pass, between the passing by which Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines' stead, and there was a sharp rock upon the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side; and the name of the one Peresh, and the name of the other.
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul knoweth it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a young cow with you, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And this I pray, that your love may more abound and abound in knowledge, and in all understanding:
And when Nahash the Ammonite went up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And the three they blew with trumpets, and they brake the pots, and put hold on their left hand upon the lamps, and with their right hand upon the trumpets to blow; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah and of assault.
For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
Let not, I pray thee, my lord set his heart unto this man of Belial, upon the Carmelite, for as his name is so: the same is his name's name, and the folly thereof; and I, thy handmaid, saw not the young men of my lord whom thou sentest.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal in the name of David's name, and ceased.
Wherefore therefore lookest thou with jealousy in my sacrifices, and of fine flour, which I commanded, and honor your sons before me, and makest yourselves fat with all the choice of the heave-offerings of Israel?
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go every man unto his city.
And Jehovah was wroth against Israel, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers; who took them, and sold them to their enemies, that dwelt round about, and stood not against their enemies.
If they say thus unto us, Abide until we come unto thee; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
Now the first covenant had the ordinances of the divine service, and the holy sanctuary.
And they believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? when Saul heard, then he slew me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take a heifer of the herd in thy hand, and say, I will come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from the face of the Philistines, and fell slain in mount Gilboa.
Moreover, my father, see, and see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I have cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew thee not, know thou, and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my soul to take it.
I have strength for all things that giveth me power.
For he spake in a certain place of the seventh saying: And God rested in the seventh day from all his works.
Now therefore go, and smite Amalek, and put all that it hath, and have no pity on it, and put to death from man to woman, from the child to the suckling, from the young ox to sheep, from camel to sheep.
And she said, O my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, and pray unto Jehovah.
And I pursued them, and smote them, and delivered it out of their mouth: and they rose up against me, and I took them by the throat, and I destroyed them, and slew them.
And again, when he bringeth the first-born into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And Saul took him that day, and let him go no more home to his father's house.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them, dwelt in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
And the three elder of the sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and the second was he, Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Yet there is both straw and feed for our asses; and there is bread and wine for me, and for thy servant, and for the young man that is with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.
For he looked for the city that hath the foundations, Whose builders and the maker of God.
And he tarried seven days, according to the time that Samuel had appointed; but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
And David feared him, when he knew that Saul had come out to take his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in Hor-kiln.
But what we have gained, only to the same hold on.
Do not multiply to speak haughtily; let old things depart from thy mouth: for the Lord is a God of all knowledge, and unto him are thoughts prepared.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name a son: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And Ezekiel gathered all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim, and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye have children of Ephraim, Ephraim, in the midst of Ephraim, in the midst of Manasseh.
In the days of Pekah, the son of Beor, in the days of Bani, the ways ceased, and those that go in the paths shall go astray.
And Saul's servants spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a light in thine eyes to be the king's son, seeing that I am a poor man, and despised?
And David said unto him, Whose man are thou and whither comest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant unto an Amalekite; and my master went on me, because three days I became sick.
Wherefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see my course.
In those days there is no king in Israel, every one that seemeth right in his own eyes.
And Achan the son called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I beseech thee, and strengthen me alone, O God, that I may be at once the punishment of the Philistines for my two eyes.
Then said the elders of the congregation, What should we do for the rest of women, since the women of Benjamin are destroyed?
And the second day of Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, and cut down eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, all the men of the children of Israel.
And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain: and David and his men were beyond the mountain: and David could not escape from the face of Saul: and Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
I know that both to make use, and I know how to have a abundance. In everything and in all things I have learned the mystery both to be filled, and to be hungry, both to have a abundance, and to go without.
Ye are all here, O ye children of Israel, know what ye ought to do.
And he showed them the door of the city, and smote the city by the edge of the sword; and the man and all his family they sent away.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with instruments of music.
But they hearkened not unto their princes, but lusted after other gods, and worshipped them; and they turned away quickly from the way that their fathers went, who had obeyed the commandment of Jehovah; they did not according to their fathers.
Then Saul returned, and pursued the Philistines no longer: and the Philistines returned to their stead.
And he took two oxen, and cut them up, and cast them through all the land of Israel by the hand of couriers, saying, If any man shall not come out after Saul and Samuel, he shall be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah came upon the people, and they came forth like one man.
And he went thence unto the inhabitants of Debir ( and the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
So Joshua dismissed the people, and the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
And it came to pass, when Eliab his elder brother heard this, when he spake with others, he was wroth with David, and said, Why dost thou go here hither? and why hast thou left them that few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the wickedness of thy heart, that thou art come down to see the battle.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for thee.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him, and he loved him greatly; and he was a bearer of his weapons.
And it came to pass, that I would ask you, that I would ask you, that ye should give me every man the rings of his prey: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmeelites.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up first to make war for us against the Canaanites?
Where the remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be a adversary to us: for what should he make himself to his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And he took off his clothes, and prophesied before Samuel; and he fell down, and stretched down his clothes, all that day, and all that night. This is the saying for the saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
Circumcision on the eighth day, of the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew Hebrew, according to law a Pharisee.
And it came to pass on the morrow after the new moon, the second day, that David's place was empty. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why hath the son of Jesse come to eat, both yesterday, or to-day?
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city trembled at his coming, and said,
And they returned to their brethren in Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What have ye heard?
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon; but they cut down on the highway five thousand men; and they pursued after them to go up, and smote two thousand men.
So Hanun rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk; ( now, the priest sat on the seat of the door of the door of the house of Jehovah),
Then Saul sent messengers to take David; and they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing over them, and the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied also.
but at the time of Saul's daughter, she was given to David, and she was given to wife the wife of his wife.
If he had been on the earth, he would not have been a priest: for there are the other priests that sanctify the sacrifice;
But he said unto me, Thou art with child, and shalt bring forth a son; and thou shalt not eat any wine, nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean; for the child shall be separated unto God from his birth unto the day of his death.
Did I not choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? did not I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire?
And all the princes of the people, and all the tribes of Israel met together, in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, fit for war.
Then said they, What shall be the trespass offering which we shall return unto him? They answered, five golden gold of gold, and five golden courses, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon your lords.
and cried out unto them. And the Danites called the battle, and said unto Micaiah, What is thy affliction, that thou hast taken up arms?
And they compassed Benjamin; and they pursued them without rest, and trampled them over against Gibeah eastward.
And ye also know, in the beginning of the glad tidings, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church was added with me as of giving and receiving, but ye only.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines arose, and came and met David, that David hasted, and ran toward the ranks to meet the Philistines.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field, and they told Abimelech.
And David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Timnah.
And Harbonah fled from the presence of his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Caleb: and the Cherethites gathered round about, and went with him.
Think this in your mind, which was also in Christ Jesus,
And he said unto them, From the eater came forth bread, and out of the mighty came forth sweet. But they could not declare the riddle for three days.
And Deborah said unto Bidkar, Up, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand. Is not Jehovah gone out before thee? And ran down ran from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And Jonathan took David again, because he loved him: for he loved him with the love of his own soul.
that ye may not be slack in heart, but may receive unto them that God hath given their inheritance, because of their faith and their patience.
So they went on the way they had begun: but when they saw that they were stronger than he returned to his house.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And he brought back the money to his mother, and his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to a refiner, and he made them a graven image, and a molten image, and was in the house of Micah.
For for the sake of the work he drew nigh unto death, that his life might be in that which he might fill up what lacked in thy ministry toward me.
And the men of Israel turned again against the children of Benjamin, and put to the sword no mercy, all the cities, and all the cattle, and all that was found, every city that came into their hand.
And the woman came at the going of the morning, and fell at the door of the man's house, where her lord until the light.
And now know, and consider what thou wilt: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household; and he is such a son of Belial, that one can speak unto him.
The full bread of bread shall hire for themselves, and the hungry shall cease; and when the barren hath borne seven, she shall increase with children.
And David came to the two hundred men that had been too sick to follow David, and whom they had left behind at the valley of the valley, or went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and David drew near unto the people, and saluted them.
and the law maketh high priests of men that are weak; but the word of the oath, which hath been made after the law, doth call to a Son, in whom all good is for ever.
And if they remember that land from which they went out, they would have a opportunity to return.
But Hanun answered and said, Nay, my lord: I am a woman troubled: but I have not drunk wine or strong drink: but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant fed his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and also a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
For he that entered into his rest, even the same also did rest from his works, as God did of his.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and beat, and called the name of it, saying, Hitherto Jehovah hath helped us.
And when they went into the house of Micah, and took out the graven image, and the ephod, and the house, and the molten images, the priest said unto them, What doest ye?
And Jesse took the way of Ramah, and he said, Yea, this Jehovah hath not set upon this thing.
So Jonathan rose up from the table, and burneth with wrath, and took no fast in the feast the second day of the month, because he grieved David because of his father.
only as we have gotten, let us also walk by the same rule.
And David inquired of Jehovah, and said, Shall I go and fight against these the Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go up, and smite the Philistines, that he may flee from thence.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Jehovah will be a witness between us: we will do according to thy word.
Neither did Manasseh cast out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and her towns, nor Taanach and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and her towns: but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
So that thine enemies shall perish, O Jehovah; But let thy lovers be as the sun that goeth out in his strength; and the land was forty years.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon; and thou shalt be visited, for thy seat shall be empty.
and Meonothai pursued after the chariots, and the people to sew the nations; and all the multitude of the enemies were utterly destroyed.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
I have not sinned against thee; but ye are the doer of making war against me: Jehovah judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
Now therefore know, and consider what ye shall do: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his house; for he is such a false man that can not speak unto him.
for the first tent was prepared, having in it the lamps, and the table, and the showbread; and this is called the holy place.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he possessed the hill-country; but could not destroy the inhabitants of the valley, because they had many chariots armed with flatteries.
And there went thence from thence, of the family of the Danites, out of Zorah, and out of Kedemoth, six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
And when she had weaned him, she brought him with her, with three bullocks, and three measures of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh. And the child was as yet very young.
Then the trees said unto the fig-tree, Thou comest and reign over us.
And he said unto her, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition, which thou hast asked of him.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines journeyed, that David came near to David, and David hasted to run before the host, and the face of the Philistines met the face of the Philistines.
There is none holy, as Jehovah is; For there is none else besides thee, And there is none mighty like our God.
And the men of Israel and Judah arose and shouted, and pursued the Philistines unto Gath and the gates of Ekron: and the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath, and to Ekron, and to Ekron.
And I will send my lad to look for the arrow; and if I say unto him, Behold, the arrow is upon this side of thee; take it up, and come; for there is peace for thee, and no evil, by the living Lord.
And Saul and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
only, being ready worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether coming and seeing you, or absent, I may hear of what concerns you, that ye stand in one spirit, with one soul, working together with the faith of the gospel;
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah smote the Midianites, and smote the king of Syria into his hand, and prevailed over Ethiopia,
and to them that are in Aroer, and unto them that is in sport, and for them in Eshtemoa,
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us for us seven days, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel; and if there be none to save us, we will come out unto thee.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, See, I have spoken of all the things which I have spoken unto thy wife; let her train.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and sware, saying, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
And they will not teach every one his fellow, and every one his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest.
So that of one man, who was near unto death, came forth children as stars in heaven, or as the sand by the sea shore, which can not be numbered.
to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death;
And it came to pass, when the time was come, that one told his neighbor a dream, and told it in this manner, and dreamed a dream, and it seemed to me a loaf of barley bread, and came down into the camp of Midian: and it came to pass, when it was come into a tent, and smote it, and smote it down to the ground.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore come ye up against us? And they said, We are come up to bind a son, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
In the days of Shaphat, the son of Achbor, in the days of Jehiel, the highways were forgotten, and the wayfaring men that were walking in the way.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that despiseth me when my son maketh a covenant with the son of Jesse, and there is none of thee that is grieved for me, or despiseth me, that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as it is this day?
He changed his way before them, and maketh himself to be mad in their hands, And the writing of the gate of the gate, And his arrow fell down upon his beard.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and came as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass, when they told to Sisera that Tilgath-pilneser the son of Potipherah was gone up to mount Tabor,
But ye turn not aside after vain things that do not profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
Thou shalt wallow them up like a garment, and they shall be changed; but thou art the same; thy years shall not fail.
This day have I asked for him at God? far be it from me; let not the king lay any thing against his servant, against any of the house of my father; for thy servant hath not known nothing any thing or more.
And they passed, and went their way; and the sun went down upon them when they were by Gibeah, which is of Benjamin.
who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for he also is persecuted with weakness.
And he ran to Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And he said, I called not, lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And he brought him into his house, and mingled for the asses; and they washed their feet, and ate and drank.
And when they arose early, it was about the dawning of the day, and Samuel called unto Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, into the street.
And he divided three hundred men into three parts, and gave them trumpets in their hands, and empty bowls, and lamps within the vessels.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died at the age of a hundred and ten years.
And he found a new jaws of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and smote a thousand men with it.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, O son of the wicked woman, shouldest I not know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath smitten the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it unto thy neighbor that is better than thou.
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and went to meet the Philistines: therefore they called that place the rock of the city.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of thanksgiving alway unto God, that is to say, The fruit of lips confess to his name.
And the wife of the son of Caleb was the wife of his son's wife.
And the people, the princes of Gilead, said to one another, Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And when I come thither, we shall lodge there, or the least in the city of Ramah.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And the issue went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, so that he could not draw his hand out of his belly; and the earth came out.
And he shall take one tenth of thy seed, and of your vineyards, and give it to his officers, and to his servants.
And now rise up by night, thou and the people that are with thee, and lie in wait in the field.
and in the faith of Abraham Sarah conceived, when she was very old, because she believed in him that instructed him;
And Saul said, Proclaim yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Let every man bring me here his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat them here, and do not sin against Jehovah in eating flesh with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go forth into the place which he should receive for an inheritance, and went out, not knowing whence he went.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my prayer which I asked of him.
And it came to pass, as soon as it was about that was dead, that the children of Israel returned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made Baal the Baal their god.
And they told it to Saul, saying, Behold, the people have sinned against Jehovah, by eating the beasts with the blood. And he said, Thou hast dealt treacherously; thou hast set a great stone upon me.
Then David ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. When the Philistines saw that their course was dead, they fled.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he turned whithersoever he was overthrown.
And when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, they lifted up their voice, and wept.
the man of yours, whom I cut not off from my altar, will consume thine eyes, and grieve thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
Now the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, the multitude melted away; and they went on to slay one another.
And thus shall ye say, Blessed be thou; and peace be to thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be to all that thou hast.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah in Shiloh; and the child was young.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.
so that it was made manifest to the whole house of the whole house, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in Christ.
And they came before Gibeah, even ten thousand of the best men in all Israel, and the people prevailed more: but the children of Benjamin knew not that evil had come upon them.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into Midian seven years.
Now therefore what is under thine hand? give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or what there is present.
Be not led away by divers and strange commandments; for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by meats, wherewith they can not profit.
who shall change our vile body, that it may be conformed to his glory, according to the working whereby he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
having the same strife which ye have seen in me, and now hear of me.
and they, and Eshtemoa, and Eshtemoa, and Eshtemoa,
For if we have sinned, if we have received the knowledge of the truth, there abideth no more a sacrifice for sins:
And she stretched out his left hand, and took the sword from off his right thigh, and smote it into his belly.
And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou mayest do according to thy service; for God is with thee.
For when he suffered himself, being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin by the families of their fathers' houses, and the family of the Canaanite: and from them, Saul the son of Kish was taken; but when they sought him, he was not found.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should surely sit with the king to eat: thou shalt send me away, that I may hide myself in the field until the third even.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the morning arose, that the city rose up, and behold, when he and the people that are with him come out unto you, shall ye do according to all that time offereth itself.
And thou shalt call for Jesse in the sacrifice, and I will make thee know what thou shalt do, and thou shalt anoint him of whom I shall speak unto thee.
And it came to pass, when they came in, that he saw Eliab, and said, Surely his anointed is before Jehovah.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us approach one of these places; we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And they of the sons of Levi, who received the priesthood, commanded to take tithes of the people according to the law, which is of their brethren, though these are come out of the loins of Abraham.
And the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and put thy finger on thy mouth, and come with us, that we may have thee for a father and a priest: and if it be better for thee to be a priest in the house of one man, or in a tribe, and in Israel?
And it came to pass, that they cried unto Jehovah, who raised them up a saviour, the son of Gera, the son of Shelah, who were the right hand; and the children of Israel sent tribute unto Eglon king of Moab.
lest there be any whoremonger, or profane, as Esau, who for one piece of bread, sold his birthright.
Therefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And it came to pass at that time the Philistines assembled against Israel, that the men of Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped against the Philistines; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Then he passed through the wilderness, and all the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came on the east side of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon; they came not in the border of Moab; for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And when the people saw this, they praised their god, and said the same: Our God hath delivered our adversary into our bonds, that destroyed our country, and slew very many.
who, being the brightness of his glory, and the figure of his substance, and guided all things by the word of his power, having done the course of sins, sat on the right hand of the majesty on high.
And all the trees said unto the thorns, Come and reign over us.
Thy servant hath smitten both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised shall be like one of them, because he reproacheth the war of the living God.
And he said unto his men, Far be it from me by Jehovah: I will not do this thing to my lord, to the anointed of Jehovah, to put forth my hand against him, because he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And God sent a evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech.
Now therefore stand, that I may contend with you before Jehovah concerning all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death;
Do all things without murmuring and reasoning:
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write unto you the same things unto you, to me not to me that ye may not eat, and to you.
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that hearkened not to the word?
Without faith it is not good to him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a reward of them that seek him.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak unto her heart, to bring her back, and his young man with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into the house of her father: and the father of the young woman saw him, and was glad to meet him.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear to me by God, that thou wilt neither put me to death, nor deliver me up into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
And all the men of Shechem were gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and came and made Abimelech king over the oak of the camp which was in Shechem.
and to a new covenant, Jesus, and to the blood of the field, speaking better than that of Abel.
And they fell upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and slew them upon the ground: and the people ate them with the blood.
But he turned back from the idols that were at Gilgal, and said, I have heard thee, O king. And the king said, Keep silence; all that stood by him left him.
And he smote them from Aroer, even until thou come to balm, even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
Nay, my sons, the account which is given to me, which the Lord's people are about, is not good.
And he shall take your daughters for a perfumer, and for durable, and for the baker.
And God sent a evil spirit between Abimelech and the lords of Shechem; and the lords of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to city of living God, who is heavenly Jerusalem, and to thousands of angels;
And some indeed preach Christ out of envy and strife; and some also of good will.
And Samuel said, Why then dost thou inquire of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is thine enemy?
And all the people rose up as one man, and said, Not one of us shall go to his tent, and return to his house.
And they took the women captive that were in it, both little and great: and they had not killed any man, but carried them with them, and went on their way.
so that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death;
proving that God was able to raise him up from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
Hearken unto your nobles, and submit them unto them; for they watch for your souls, that they may do this with joy, and not with sighing, for that would be unprofitable for thee.
And when Jehovah looked after Hanun, then she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child of Samuel grew up with Jehovah.
And this we will do, if God suffer,
And Saul saw that Jehovah was with David, and Michal Saul's daughter loved him.
Be careful for nothing; but in everything of prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known unto God.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the people ran; and they shouted, and put them away.
And the walls of Jericho fell by faith, And the walls of Jericho seven days.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from you: for if I should not know that evil were determined by my father to come on you, then would I not say unto thee?
And unto him repaired Jair the Gileadite, who judged Israel for two and twenty years.
And the son of Anak and his brethren came; and they passed over to Shechem; and Shechem's lords gave him confidence.
And David prospered in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And they went up into the city: and when they were come into the city, behold, the Syrians came out against them, to go up to the high place.
And David said unto him, To whom manner thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days went I fell sick.
And the thistle said unto the trees, If thou hast anointed me king over you, then come and take refuge in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the bramble bush, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
For both he that sanctifieth and sanctified all of one; for he is not ashamed to call them brethren.
Again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I am with the children whom God hath given me.
And all the children of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from his face, fearing him exceedingly.
Yea, if I make a sacrifice upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I rejoice and bless you all.
And he said unto her, Give me drink, I pray thee, a little water, for I thirst. And she opened the bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And your fields, and your vineyards, and your olive-trees, shall he take and give unto his servants.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn into his house.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, and bear his reproach.
And the liver shall not sin, nor the transgression of God, like Esau; who let his birthright go for the dish.
And Naaman was very old, and heard all that his sons were doing unto all Israel, and that they lay with the women that served at the door of the tent of meeting.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed after them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of it.
And it came to pass, when David understood that Saul secretly prepared evil against him, he said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod hither.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards.
For men indeed swear by the greater, and a oath to confirm is to them an end of all strife.
And Jonathan gave his weapons to his servant, and said unto him, Go, bring them into the city.
For can not the blood of bulls and goats take away sins.
And Jehovah destroyed, and all the chariots, and all the host, and all the host, by the edge of the sword, in the presence of the sword; and, behold, he came down from the chariot, and fled on his feet.
And it came to pass, when they came to the Jordan, that he passed with the three hundred men that were with him, weary and pursued.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off, a great space between them.
So it came to pass on this day, that she gave him no peace; for he asked him until his soul was troubled.
And when Saul saw David going out to meet the Philistine, he spake unto Abner the captain of the host, saying, Whose son was this child, Abner? And Abner said, Thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and lay in ambush in the field. And he looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
And they passed from thence to mount Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
For the carcase of them whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin shall be burnt without the camp.
And there was no company found throughout all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears.
And it came to pass, after that David came out of the cave, that he cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked back, David fell upon his face, and glorified him.
and call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will tell thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
So Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a pomegranate that is in Migron; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;
And when he had ended speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan loved the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
and in nothing of affliction, which is for them a trial of destruction, but unto you of salvation, and from God.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And it came to pass in the morning when the wine was gone, and the wife of the wife's wife told him all these things; and all the heart went out of him, and he became like stone.
And when he saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time; for he hath told me all his heart. And the princes of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought the money in their hand.
And it came to pass, when his brethren fled, and dwelt in the land of Caleb, where men of the sons of men were joined to Libnah, and went with him.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, for we have both sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed, for ever. And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
So they that were gone in took away the graven ephod, and the ephod, and the idols, and the molten gods. And the priest said unto them, What doest ye?
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and those that suffer trouble, as ye also are in the body.
And they said, Thou hast not oppressed us, neither hast thou crushed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
Then said to his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad: wherefore then have ye brought him unto me?
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: verily, ye have done evil, but turn not away from Jehovah; serve his servants.
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and have walked in the way by which Jehovah hath sent me, and have brought Zedekiah king of Amalek, and I have slain Amalek.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, not on his face, nor on the height of his stature, because I have cast him off, nor do I judge according to the sight of man: for man seeth the things that appear, but Jehovah seeth the heart.
But he that hath no genealogy of them hath changed Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned, we have done unto us whatsoever is good to thee: only deliver us this time.
nor that he may many times offer himself, even as the high priest shall enter into the holy places every year with blood of others.
And God returned again the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father in smiting his seventy brethren.
In those days there was no king in Israel; each did that which was right in his eyes.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Which of us shall go up against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and rose up to depart. And the damsel's father said to his son in law, Strengthen thy heart with a piece of bread, and afterward shalt thou go thy way.
And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Son of the wicked woman, have I not known that thou seekest the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And they ran, and fetched him from thence: and he stood in the midst of the people, and he was higher than any of the people from the shoulders and upward.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely be put to death, thou shalt surely be slain, thou, and all thy father's house.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the love which ye have made unto his name, having ministered unto the saints, and ministering.
But if ye be without correction, of which all are made partakers, then are ye anxious, and not children.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; who also was gathered after him; and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrow is passed by thee; go on thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
Wherefore they smote the seventy sons of Jerubbesheth, and of their blood, that they might bring upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and the city of Shechem, who gave him to help his brethren.
They that were full are sacrifices for bread for bread; they that have eaten are at rest; yea, she that had no children hath become the mother of seven; and she that hath a family is wasted with sorrow.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For the priesthood being changed, there is a release for the law.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the Lord; for ye have compassion on me.
And the tribes of Israel sent men among all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil that is among you?
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, saying,
And they said unto Ezekiel, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
And Abigail hasted, and rode upon the ass, and with five maidens that ministered, and went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And Saul cast his spear upon him to kill him. And Jonathan knew that his father had determined to slay David.
And the children of Judah warred against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it by the edge of the sword, and sent the city into fire.
But Samuel was not pleased when they said unto him, Give us a king to be our judge. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
Therefore let us have a strong desire to come into that rest, and let no man go after the fables of the captivity.
And his servant said unto him, Do that which is in thine mind: behold, I am with thee in all your heart.
And by faith Moses, when he was grown up, he denied him to be the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on mount Gilboa.
Keep thyself with me, and do not be afraid; for he that hath laboured upon my life hath laboured upon thee; but thou shalt be with me.
And David said unto Ahijah, If I have found favor in thine eyes, then let them give me a place in one of the cities cities, that I may dwell there: wherefore should thy servant live in the royal city with thee?
And the people, the men of Israel, took courage, and set the battle in array in the place where they lay themselves in array the first day.
Watch ye, that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they that escape not, when they refuse him that bare them on earth, much less shall we escape, if we will despise him that warn heaven;
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, go down from the midst of Amalek, lest I consume thee with it, and thou hast mercy with all the children of Israel, when they went up out of Egypt. And the Kenite took away from the midst of Amalek.
And to whom he sware, that they should not come into his rest? was it not to them that rebelled against his commandments?
If thus he say, Good; peace for thy servant: and if it displease him, know that the evil hath been determined by him.
and Eshton called unto Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and they went up after him, ten thousand men; and Deborah went up with him.
From thence they passed into mount Ephraim; and they came into the house of meeting.
Beware of the dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the truth.
For he put his life in hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou didst see and rejoice: why then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, in smiting David without cause?
And it came to pass, when she urged him daily with her words and mocked him, that his soul was grieved unto death;
And there were found of Benjamin five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah,
And they sat down and drank, and the two of them alike. And the damsel's father said unto the man, If it please thee, lie here to-night, and let thy heart be glad.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth: and they fastened his body unto the wall of the tent of Bashan.
And it came to pass from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
For there is no stay here, but our search is for him that is to come.
And David said, Whom art thou? or whence comest thou? and whither goest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of an Amalekite, and my master left me; for I began to be sick three days ago.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray unto Jehovah thy God for thy servants, that we die not: for we have added to all our sins the wickedness to ask for ourselves a king.
So they hasted, and made him come out: and when he stood among the people, he was his throne above any of the people.
And he made an girdle of the ephod from them, and put it up in his city: and all Israel went after it, and they rebelled against Jehovah; and it became a sin to the house of his house.
Now, behold, the king walketh before thee; I am old and greyheaded. Behold, my sons are with thee: I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
They compassed the queens, and pursued them with ease, and trodden them down from against Gibeah at the sunrising.
They shall perish, but thou art for ever; They shall be old as a garment.
And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.
And in like manner ye rejoice, and rejoice with me.
As for the proverb of the elders, Salvation cometh from the wicked; But my hand shall not be upon thee.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest iniquity; Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with oil of joy above thy fellows.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us as all the nations.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah had delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as to hearken to the voice of Jehovah? Behold, hear how to hearken than sacrifice is better, to give heed than the fat of rams.
And he said unto the angel of the Lord, I beseech thee, let us hinder thee, until we shall have prepared a kid for thee.
So therefore go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that is his: spare him not, but slay both man and woman, both male and suckling, both ox and sheep, both camel and ass.
They that were before had made as if they fled, and turned their faces stood against them; which the children of Benjamin saw, they turned their backs,
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink, for I thirst. And she opened the bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And he took his staff in his hand, and took him out of the brook five shekels of the brook, and put them in the sack of his shepherd, in the sack: and he came into his hand, and drew near the Philistines.
And David came to Nob, to Abimelech the priest: and Abimelech feared him at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou by thyself, having no man with thee?
And he went up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines; therefore take her for me as a wife.
And he said unto his lad, Run, I pray thee, I pray thee, now the arrows which I shall shoot. And the child ran, and he shot the arrow beyond him.
And he had a crown of brass upon his legs, and a javelin of brass between his shoulders.
that through them I may try Israel, whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah, and walk in it, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And the people came into the house of God, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept sore.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchi-shua, and the names of his two daughters: the name of the first-born, the name of the younger, Michal;
proving this same thing, that he which was a good work in you shall finish it until the day of Christ Jesus:
In those days there was no king in Israel, and the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day they had not received their lot among the tribes.
And it came to pass, that one day, when he was lying in his stead ( now his eyes had begun to grow, that he could not see;
And they went out from thence unto the inhabitants of Debir ( the name of Debir was Kiriath-sepher.
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And he took the kid of the goats, and the present, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah; and he did exploits: and the man and his wife looked.
And thou shalt see an oppressor in my habitation, in all the good that shall be done to Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
of whom the world was not worthy; they wandered in the deserts, and in the mountains, and in dens, and in the caves of the earth.
Let us hasten therefore to enter into that rest; lest any man fall into the same sample of unbelief.
And Jehovah discomfited, and all his chariots, and all his army, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before Kir; and he forsook his chariot, and fled on his feet.
And David returned all that the Amalekites had taken, and restored his two wives.
As soon as thou comest into the city, thou shalt straightway find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice: and afterward they that are bidden eat. Now therefore go up; for at this time thou shalt find him.
And Abimelech gat him up to Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him: and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a branch from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered up thine enemy into thy hand this day: now let me smite him with the spear to the earth, and I will not smite him the second time.
But the matter displeased Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
who is faithful to him that made him, as was Moses in all his house.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
And when the lad was gone, David rose up from thence at the South, and fell upon his face toward the ground, and bowed himself three times; and they kissed one another, and they wept one with another, until David magnified himself.
And Samuel grew up, and Jehovah was with him: he suffered none of his prophecy to go abroad.
And he numbered them in array: the children of Israel were three hundred thousand; and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
And Jesse took five cakes of bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them unto Saul by David.
Zebulun did not make the people of the field, nor the people of fifty men go out; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and were brought to taskwork.
And Saul cast the javelin, and said, I will smite through David, even through the wall. And David turned before him twice.
And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take care of thyself in the morning, and dwell in a secret place, and hide thyself.
And David took the spear, and the waters of water by the head of Saul; and they went away, and there was none seeing, nor perceived, nor awaked: for they were all sleeping: for a deep sleep fell upon them.
So that the violence done to the seventy brethren of Abimelech should be avenged and put their blood on Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and on the lords of Shechem, who helped to slay his brethren.
Behold, as thy life was right in my sight, so let my life be known in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all oppression.
And David said unto Ahijah, Thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Abimelech said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my soul for ever.
And David arose, and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men: and David brought their course, and they gave them in full purpose to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And he said unto him, How can I be the saviour of Israel? behold, my house is the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
For the tabernacle was set up; the first, in which the candlestick, and the table, and the writing of the loaves, which is called holy,
For in a certain place he spake of the seventh day: and God rested the seventh day from all his works.
by faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a foreign country, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise:
For all the days that the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground thou art not established, thou and thy kingdom: and now send and bring him unto me, because he is a son of death.
And when the words were heard which David spake, they told them before Saul: and he sent for him.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clothed with a coat of silver, and the weight of his coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
Zebulun is a people that smiteth their lives unto death, And Naphtali also upon the high places of the field.
And some also for jealousy and strife; but some also for good will, preach the Christ.
And Caleb went against the Canaanite of Hebron ( and it was in Shushan, that Hebron was called Kiriath-arba); and he put Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, to the sword.
And he waited seven days according to the appointed time of Samuel; and Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the host fled from him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for he is to defy Israel, and it shall be, that the man that smiteth him shall the king increase with great riches, and shall give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And they took captive the women that were therein, from the youngest to the first-born: and they slew not any man; but they carried them away, and went on their way.
And it shall come to pass, that by Abraham the Levite, who received tithes, shall pay tithes.
And he said unto him, Ask me, my lord: how shall I deliver Israel? behold, my family is the portion of Manasseh, and I am the youngest in my father's house.
And Jehovah forsook these nations, so as not to dispossess them hastily, nor given them into the hand of Joshua.
And Saul was in the thickets of the battle, and the archers were clothed him, and he was wounded with the archers.
that all ye have conspired against me, and there is none that showeth me that my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or hath showed me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
and the number of gold, even the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for the five princes, from the fortified city even unto the towns, even unto the great grass, upon which they laid the ark of Jehovah, unto this day in the field of Joshua the half-shekel.
So they went up to the city: and when they were found, they came into the city, and Samuel met them with them to the high place.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
The men of war ceased, they fell to appear in Israel, Until I, even Deborah, arose; I arose as a mother in Israel.
Yet there is straw and provender for our asses; and there is bread and wine for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man that is with thy servants: there is no lack of anything.
And Sheva the son called unto Jehovah, and said, Remember me, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, and strengthen me, only thou, O God, that I may be at once avenge the Philistines for my two eyes.
And Jehovah said unto Hanun, The people that are with thee are many, and Midian shall not be delivered into their hands; lest Israel should glory against me, and say, I am delivered by my own strength.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that seeth hath said, There is no more, neither was there any more, from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: set your hand upon it, take counsel, and speak.
There was no man at all that brought them to help; for they dwelt far from Sidon, and had no use or trade with any man; and the city was in the land of Rehob: and they built it, and dwelt therein.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they abode with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
So David's young men turned on their way, and returned, and came and told him according to all these words.
And David said, Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will surely smite him; either his day shall die, or he shall descend into battle and perish.
In every where they went out, the hand of Jehovah shall be against them for evil, as Jehovah hath spoken; and as Jehovah sware unto them, and they were distressed.
and behold, my father, see the skirt of thy garment in my hand; for I took away the skirt of thy garment, and slew thee not, saying, I have no evil device, and I have done thee no wrong, though thou wait for my life to take it.
And Jair died at the death of Jair.
Then the first covenant also was the ordinances of the divine service, and the holy temple.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day.
And there was a judge of Israel for Israel six years: and Cain the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
not set up our feasts, as is the way of some, but keeping one another in faith; and all the more, because ye behold the day following.
and not troubled by those that oppose them, which unto them indeed is a sign of destruction, and of you of salvation, and that of God;
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and told them in the ears of Jehovah.
And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and ate no bread the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, because his father kissed him.
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and slew them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Now therefore let it be given out unto the people, that whosoever is afraid of them, that is to depart from mount Gilgal. So twenty thousand of the people returned, but there were ten thousand.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, O son, and awaked from sleep, and said, I will go out as I did before, and I will shake myself, not knowing that Jehovah was departed from him.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, as the flame went up from the altar toward the heavens, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar; and a man and his wife looked on, and fell upon their faces to the ground.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn about Saul? I have cast him off from being king over Israel: make thy horn with oil, and go: I will send thee unto Jesse the Gilonite; for I have chosen a king for myself among his sons.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly, and hast not kept the commandments of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: and if thou hadst not done, then Jehovah would now establish thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And after the second curtain, the tabernacle which is called the holy priest,
Having therefore, brethren, without boldness for the entrance into the holy places in the blood of Jesus,
Now it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites, to fight against them?
But the precious food is for the perfect; for they that by custom have understanding to the discerning of good and evil.
And Sheva the son said unto her, If thou wilt bind me up with seven dross which are not dried up, I will be weak as one else.
And it came to pass about the morning, that Samuel said unto Saul on the roof, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and he and Samuel went out together.
The forefront of the one was of the north over against Michmash, and the other to the south side over against Gibeah.
And he said unto his young man, Come, and let us approach one of the places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And they said, We will give them most willingly, and spread out a mantle upon the ground, and cast upon it the spoil of the spoil.
And he took captive a young man of the people of Succoth, and inquired of him, and asked him, and said, The princes of Succoth and the elders seventy seventy men.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do unto him as it seemeth good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily.
Let the brotherly love continue.
And the sons of Saul Jonathan's son went to David in Hor-haggidgad, and strengthened his hands in God.
But the Spirit answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? this day, there are many servants break away from their masters.
For he that maketh holy and holy are all of one family: and for this cause it is no shame for him to give them the name of brethren;
And Saul chose him three thousand men out of Israel: there were with Saul two thousand at Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand of Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the rest of the people sent every man to his tent.
And when the messengers were come, behold, a graven image was in the bed, and the hair was under the head of goats' hair for his sake.
So the Christ hath not glorified himself to be made a high priest: but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, I have begotten thee this day.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus in Philippi, with the ungarl and stewards of the church:
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more, if we come to Kadesh against the host of the Philistines?
And they believed David, saying, He hath made himself utterly hated among his people Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
As many therefore as perfect, let us be so minded: and if ye be any other mind, this also God will reveal unto you.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I am come down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, until I come unto thee, and show thee what thou shalt do.
looking diligently forward, lest any man be slack of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness grow up may give trouble, and by this many many shall be defiled.
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I shall call my father about this time to morrow the next day, and, behold, there be good toward David; and I will not send thee, and bear thee of it,
And he kept the passover by faith, and the blood that shed the blood; he that destroyed the first-born, he would not touch them.
But the righteous shall live by faith; And if he draw back, my soul shall not delight in him.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah by Ramah.
And he said unto them, Thus hath Micaiah done unto me; and he hath hired me, and I am his priest.
And the garrison of the Philistines went forth to the end of Michmas.
So he went into Ramah, and the Spirit of God came upon him, and walked with prophesying, until he came to Ramoth-gilead.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow, by the time the sun is hot, thou shalt be delivered. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or if thy father answer thee roughly?
In faith Abel made a precious gift to God than Cain; and he had testified of his righteousness, and God giveth his favor: and his voice also cometh unto us, though he is dead.
Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeketh to dwell in the house of Saul, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the men of Jabesh said, To morrow we shall come out unto thee, and thou shalt do unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died.
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came greatly upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as the flax burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took thence a stone, and moved it, and smote the Philistines in his forehead, that the stone fell into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east were gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hanun, and the name of the other mite; and the children of Zelophehad had children; but Hanun had no children.
And that the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were a half of Mamre's land, which the yoke of oxen might plow.
And the men did so, and took two oxen, and bound them unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home:
And he asked water, and gave him milk; and she brought forth butter in a great name platter.
So David sent the watch, and told them that Saul was surely coming.
And he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab; and it was a very fat man.
Let it be, when these signs are come to thee, that thou doest that which is good for the occasion; for God is with you.
Now therefore stand, that I may reason with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
And it came to pass, when he had made a end to offer the burnt-offering, that, behold, the Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, to bless him.
And his father went down unto the woman, and Shema the son made there a feast; for so the young men did.
And, behold, when they pursued after talking, behold, came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And he came unto her; and, behold, he was leprous, and the tent was in his temples.
And she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son. And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go out, as every other time, and wag me; but he knew not that Jehovah had left him.
Behold therefore the king shall choose thee: Jehovah hath set a king over thee.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants, and they ate. And they rose up and went away that night.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And it came to pass, when they went down to the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Give thy servant to pass on before us, that he might go on before us; and thou shalt abide, and thou shalt abide, that I may tell thee the word of God.
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is among you?
And there were six hundred men armed with weapons of war, who were of the sons of Dan, at the entrance of the gate;
And David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken, and delivered his two wives.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Atharim, to Gittaim king of Syria, and the children of Israel ministered, saying,
I thank my God for my memorial of thee.
And Shuppim gathered all the men of Gilead, and fought against Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; and he put his armor in his tent.
And, behold, when they followed after talking, behold, he came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest. And he came in unto her: and, behold, the Syrian was fallen, the dead, and the nail, in his temples.
So he shewed them the door of the city, and they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his family.
Then were the hoofs of the field broken by the hand of the cliff, The portion of their mighty ones.
And the servants of Ahijah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dancing, saying, Saul hath smitten his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And the iron shall be for the waste, and the bars thereof, and the bars thereof, and the axes thereof, and the thresholds.
And the children of Israel had sworn to Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give of his daughters unto the children of Benjamin to wife.
And the children of Dan sent five men of their fathers' houses from their whole number, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, see the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which seemeth good to thee, and tarry till thou be with him; and I pray that Jehovah may fulfil his word. And the woman stayed at home, and gave her son to drink, until she had weaned him.
For, behold, he that endureth such enmity against himself, lest ye grow weary in your souls, and give up.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he was before them.
And Gilead had a wife of whom he had sons; and when they were grown up, they thrust out the voice, saying, Thou canst not inherit in the house of our father, because thou art born of another mother.
and behold, if it go up by the way of his border to Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance that came to us.
And he said unto me, Behold, thou art with child, and bear a son: and now drink not wine and strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing: for the bridegroom is the child of the womb unto God unto the day of his death.
And he sprinkled with blood the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service.
Moreover the glory of Israel will not err, nor repent: for he is not a man that he should do.
And they gathered together to Mizpah; and they drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah; and they fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And her husband followed her, willing to be reconciled with her, and to speak kindly unto her, and to bring her again with him, having with him a servant and two asses: and she received him, and brought him into her father's house. And when his father had heard this, and had seen him, he met him with joy.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the open place of the city; and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
but chose to be afflicted with the people of God, than to have the will of sin for a time.
And he said unto her, What is his appearance? And she said, A old man is coming up, and he is bound in a robe. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he kneeled down to the ground, and bowed down.
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Beor, wherewith Abimelech hired vanity and light, which followed him.
And the men of Israel saw that they were distressed, that the people were oppressed, and the people hid themselves in the caves, and in the thickets, and in the rocks, and in the high places, and in pits.
( neither were the children of Benjamin ignorant that the children of Israel were come up to Mizpah:) and the Levite the husband of the woman that was slain, asked, how much a wickedness was committed,
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had given thee this day into my hand in the cave; and they told me slay thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And he returned from the battle before the sun rising.
because it was right for him, for whom, and through whom all things have happened, in guiding his children to glory, to confirm the prince of their salvation through sorrow.
And the Philistines gathered all their armies at Aphek: and Israel encamped at the well that is in Jezreel.
And Jesse made seven sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And David said unto Ahijah, What have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And now, my lord, the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath restrained thee from coming with blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand; now let thine enemies, and those that seek evil unto my lord, be as Zalmon.
Let us therefore fear, lest haply any of you seem to have come short of the promise to come into his rest.
by which he is able also to save for ever them that come to God by him; always that liveth to make intercession for us.
And before they burned incense with the fat, then the priest's servant shall come in, and said unto the man that sacrificeth, Give flesh to boil for the priest; and he shall not take of thee flesh, but roast.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house: and the son became the servant of Jehovah under the hand of Naaman the priest.
And Manasseh took not away the land of the people of Bethshean and its towns, of Taanach and its towns, and of the people of Dor, and of the towns thereof, and of the people of Ibleam, and Ibleam, and the people of Megiddo, and the towns thereof, and did drive them out; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And it came to pass in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, saying, Come, let us go up to the seer. For the prophet of this day was named a seer.
He shall keep the feet of his saints; But the wicked shall be overthrown in the darkness, because a man shall not prevail by his might.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood by him, Hear now, ye Benjamin: will the son of Jesse give unto you, even ye fields and vineyards? will he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
with the fruit of righteousness, with the fruit of Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
Thou hast no delight in the land of Jehovah.
And all that fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword: all these were men of valor.
Forty years, for which cause I was offended with this generation, And I said, They err in their heart; And they have not known my ways.
But God divided the hollow of a troop, and water came out of it: and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: therefore the name thereof was called the rock, which is in a troop, unto this day.
And when the Philistines looked about, and saw David, he despised him; for he was a child, and ruddy, and beside a fair countenance.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the edge of the rod, which was in my hand, and, behold, I must die.
And there is no deliverer; for it is far off from Sidon, and they have no word with man, and it is in the valley that is by Rehob; and they build the city, and dwell therein.
And they called the name of that place: and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
Behold, ye all the children of Israel, give unto you a word and counsel.
neither by the blood of goats and oxen, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
So David arose, and fled that day from before Saul, and went to Ahijah the king of Gath.
lest any man be a whoremonger, or profane, as Esau, who is sold for one piece of bread, selleth his birthright.
and changed his way before their eyes, and maketh him mad in their hand, and the writing of the door of the gate.
And there was a man in the Maon, whose goods were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he began to feed his sheep in Carmel.
And they took the women captive that were therein; they slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And David heard in the wilderness that the Nabal of Nabal his sheep.
For ye came not nigh to the mountain, touched, and burned with fire, and into blackness, and darkness, and storm,
And Enoch said unto him, How dost thou say, that thou lovest me, when thy heart is not with me? Thou hast told me these three times, and wouldest not tell me in which thy strength lieth.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why shall he be slain? what hath he done?
And they called unto the children of Dan, who turned them about to face, and said to Micah, What is the matter with thee, that thou art gathered together?
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
And the children of Hobab the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up with the children of Judah from the city of palm-trees into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the South, which is in the South; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And when they saw him, they took thirty men, and they were with him.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he said, Behold, I am, my lord.
And Saul fell immediately his full way upon the earth, and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel; and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day nor all the night.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: and your way wherein ye shall go before Jehovah.
By so much more Jesus is made the earnest of a good covenant.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that smiteth this of the Philistines, and take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised master, that he should defy the host of the living God?
who is the light of his glory, and of his knowledge, and of his knowledge, endureth all things by the word of power. When he made for sin for sins through him, he sat at the right hand of the glory on high,
And Saul said, Blessed art thou of Jehovah; for thou hast had compassion on me.
To suffer affliction rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a time.
Now he was ninety and eight years old: his eyes were set, and he could not see.
and as it is laid up to men once to die, and after this is judged.
And he said unto them, What shall ye see me, do ye the same: I will go into one part of the camp, and do ye as I do.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is sanctified bread: if the young men have kept themselves at the least of women.
And he wrought himself, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that had robbed it.
And Jesse made seven sons to pass before Samuel; and Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are all thy sons here? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest. Behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come here.
And Jehovah said unto them, The people are yet too many; bring them down to the water, and I will prove them for thee there: and it shall be, of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, that shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, that shall not go with thee.
Therefore therefore we will do unto Gibeah: We will go up against her by lot.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this hand, and thou shalt save Israel out of the Midianites: have I not sent thee?
and to them that were in Sepharad, and to those in the cities of the hired elite, and to those in the cities of the Kenites,
And she said, O my lord, thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here to pray unto Jehovah.
And he said unto her, If they only bind me with new cords with which no work is done, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
And Michal's daughter Michal loved David: and Saul heard it and pleased.
As for the asses that are lost to thee this day three days, set not thy heart unto them; for they were found; and to whom all the desire of Israel? is it not unto thee and to all thy father's house?
And the children of Israel asked of Jehovah, and there was the ark of the covenant of God in those days.
They were near Jebus, and the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And Micaiah said, Now I know that Jehovah will do well good: for the Levite shall be my priest's.
And it came to pass, when he returned the pieces of silver unto his mother, that his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave it to the smith, and he made it a molten image; and it was in the house of Micah.
For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached not unto them, not being made with faith in them that heard it.
And the children of Ammon were called together, and encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel gathered together, and encamped at Mizpah.
who needeth not like the chief priests to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people: for he did this once for all, when he offered himself.
And Eber the Kenite was separated from the other Kenite, of the sons of Achor, of the children of Achor, Moses' father-in-law. And he was encamped at the Midianites, which is near Kedesh.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do to the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought round. And they brought the ark of the God of Israel round about.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my new wine, who maketh God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
Therefore arise ye in the morning, thou, and the servants of thy lord, that came with thee: and when ye are before day, then shall ye begin to pass on your way.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and bow down to him for a piece of silver and a loaf of bread, and will say, Put me now into one of the priests' charge, that I may eat a piece of bread.
And they turned aside, and came into the house of the damsel's house, the house of Micah, and saluted him.
Having the same strife which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
But he, whose plowshares did not be numbered among them, received the tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
David was the youngest; and the three elder followed Saul.
So they sent and gathered all the chief men of the Philistines together, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel away, and let it go again into its own place, that it may not kill us and our people. For there was a plague of confusion throughout all the city.
And he divided three hundred men into three companies; and he put trumpets and empty vessels in every hand, and lamps within the vessels.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
And he called again to the young man bearing his weapons, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and put me to death, lest they say of me, A woman slew him. And his young man pierced him through, and he died.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, and he did unto her his vow which he had vowed, and she knew not a man; and it was a statute in Israel.
And Saul called unto the people, and numbered them in Ahaz, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
What shall we do of wives for them that are alive? for we have sworn by the Lord, that we should not give them our daughters for wives.
And he said unto him, Oh, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why hath all this come to us? and where are all his marvellous works which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
And Ahio put forth his left hand, and took the javelin from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I will give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight with the war of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
And it was so, that he rose up early on the morrow, and smote the wool of the fleece, and moved the dew out of the fleece of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
And there cried for David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou art righteous, and thy going out, and thy coming out, and thy coming in with me, is good in my sight; for I have not found evil in thee from the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords do not favour thee.
And Hanun answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sad spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And it came to pass after this, that he thirsted with water, and cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast delivered this great deliverance by the hand of thy servant, and I die, and I die; and I shall be delivered into the hand of this people that are uncircumcised.
and that were in Ramah, and that were in the lake 'Asaiah, and that were in Ziklag,
And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: now were they, and were dead.
Therefore have I given him unto Jehovah; for he is the Lord's stead, and he worshipped Jehovah.
And the Sabeans pursued after the chariots and after the camp, unto the poorest of the nations; and all the camp of Sisera fell by the mouth of the sword; there was not one left one.
And after the death of Joshua the sons of Israel inquired of Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up before us against the Canaanites, and shall be the chief of the war?
For the rest, my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are spiritual, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are holy, whatsoever things is good, whatsoever things is of value; if there be any power, if there be any thanksgiving, let it be known unto these things.
And he rose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; but the damsel's father said, refresh thy heart, I pray thee. And they lingered until the time, and they did eat both of them.
And she vowed a vow, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt behold at the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and forget thy servant, but give unto thy servant a child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head.
Be ye imitators of me, brethren, and keep them that walk in this way, even as ye have us as a example.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel slew of the children of Israel that day five thousand one hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the dead, and found Saul and three sons lying down on mount Gilboa.
And they went up into the city. And as they were come into the midst of the city, behold, there was Samuel coming forth toward them, to go up to the high place.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be comforted, when I know your state.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray you, that mine eyes be dim because I have tasted a little of this honey.
And they ran, and took him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than all the people from his shoulders and upward.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? what hath he done?
And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him unto me in the bed, that I may kill him.
And Hanun conceived, and bare a son: and she called his name Samuel: for she said, I asked him from Jehovah.
And this he put into the pot, and all that came up upon the hook the priest took for himself. This they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
For if Jesus had given them rest, he would never have spoken of another day.
And thou in the beginning, O Jehovah, hast founded the earth, And the heavens are works of thy hands.
So she wept before Shema, and murmured, saying, Thou hatest me, and lovest me not: therefore thou wilt not tell me the words which thou hast set to the children of my people. But he said, I would not tell it to my father and to his mother; how shall I tell it to thee?
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, except Jehovah will smite him, or his day shall die, or he shall go down to battle and to perish.
Herein Sarah Sarah, being barren, received strength to conceive seed, even past the time of age; because she believed that he was faithful who had promised;
that ye may be perfect, and the faithful sons of God, without reproof, in the midst of a perverse and perverse generation, among whom thou art light in the world.
To morrow, concerning this time will I send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him, and thou shalt make him ruler over my people Israel, and he shall deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have seen the mourning of my people, and cried unto me.
Behold, ye are all, O ye children of Israel: give now your counsel, what is to be done.
So shall all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but they that love him are as the rising sun in its strength. And the land rested forty years.
And the men of Israel beside Benjamin were reckoned, four hundred thousand, ten men, men of valor.
And the day cometh, and Elkanah sacrificed; and he gave to Jahaz his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
Gilead dwelt over the Jordan; and Dan waited in his ships; Asher kept in his stead by the edge of the sea.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do that which is good in thy sight. And the priest said, Let us come near hither unto God.
And a man of God came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Did I show myself unto thy father's people, when they were in Egypt, servants in Pharaoh's house?
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the tribute, and the gold, and the images of their flesh.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah will cast thee off from being king over Israel.
And the three first-born of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next unto him, Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Then there was there a altar to build an altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-bah: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the chief mite.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the stronghold of En-gedi.
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were stronger than him, he turned to return to his house.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Tarry not in the hold, depart, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of the pit.
And Saul sent messengers to see David, saying, Bring him in the bed unto me, that he might kill him.
And this shall ye do: every male, and every woman that lieth with a man, shall be put to curse; but ye shall save the virgins. And they did so.
And Michal Saul's daughter loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing was right in his sight.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust; He lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, To set the nobles; and he maketh them inherit a throne of glory; For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and hath set the world upon them.
And the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do for wives for them that remain? for the women have perished out of Benjamin.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house: and the lad was ministering unto Jehovah before Naaman the priest.
And all the people came into the forest, and there was honey upon the ground.
And they waited until they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper chamber: therefore they took the key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord fell down dead upon the threshing-floor.
And Agag king of Amalek smote him captive, and smote all the people with the sword.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David, and they told Saul, and the thing was right in his sight.
But now, thy authority shall not pass upon: Jehovah, and seek a man that is acceptable to him in every way, and hath given him the place of ruler over his people, because thou hast not done what Jehovah commanded thee.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he said unto him, Follow them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and thou shalt surely deliver them.
and thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God in the top of this rock, whereupon thou hast set the sacrifice before: and thou shalt take the second bullock, and shalt offer a burnt-offering upon the wood, which thou shalt cut down out of the Asherah.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together at Aphek: and the children of Israel encamped by the well of Jezreel.
without father, without mother, without any genealogy, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but he that ruleth the Son of God, he abideth a priest always.
And the Philistines gathered up their armies for battle, and were gathered at Shechem, which belongeth to Judah; and they encamped between Soco and Azekah in the Philistines.
And he shall take your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-trees, all the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
And they arose, and went up to Beth-el, to inquire of God. And the children of Israel said, Who shall go up first to fight against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
And it shall be, that the remnant of thy house, whosoever hath not been cut off, shall bow upon his knees unto him for a piece of silver, or a morsel of bread, and say, Be pleased to bring me into one of the priest's office, that I may eat a little food.
And Saul fell down straightway to the ground; and he was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel; and there was no strength in him; for he had not eaten bread all day and all night.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But no man answered. And he took her up upon the ass: and the man rose up, and went to his place.
Remember them that have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, understood the end of their life.
Wherefore refuse ye at my sacrifice and at my offering, which I have commanded in my habitation, and anointed thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the choice of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And it came to pass, when the second day of the new moon was come, that David's place appeared empty again. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, Why is not the son of Jesse to eat neither yesterday nor to-day?
So David took the spear and the bottle of water from off the head of Saul; and they went away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, nor awaked; for they were all sleep; for a deep sleep fell upon them.
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son; and now drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any thing unclean: for the lad shall be a Nazirite of God from the womb unto the day of his death.
And Saul said, I have sinned: return unto me, O David my son: I will do thee no more wrong, because I have loved thee this day, I have been vile, and my error is very great.
And the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed; for they saw that evil had come upon them.
Then said he unto his servants, Behold, the man is loosed off his head; why have thou brought him before me?
And Jair died, and was buried in Mahanaim.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself unto Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
And from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, the days increased, and was twenty years, and all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
We may fear therefore, lest haply any promise should be left of entering into his rest, if any of you think that ye should come short,
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, where the bed was prepared for Saul, he went to rest.
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed the land of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and sheep.
For they indeed, for a few days, suffer us to be good unto them; but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness.
And Ezekiel sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight against my land?
And Saul said, This is what thou shalt say unto David: The king requireth no more; but for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge himself upon the enemies of the king. Now Saul thought to suffer David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.
The Holy Spirit commanded this, that the way was not yet made manifest, while the first tabernacle was yet standing.
And joy in their feasts, when they had now taken their good courage, they commanded that the damsel had been called, and would play before them; and he brought out of the prison, and played before them; and they made him stand between two pillars.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, to me indeed is not troubled; but ye shall be saved.
And Samuel shall minister before Jehovah, and a band of fine linen shall be upon them.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: fear ye not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not hearkened unto my voice.
who hath become a priest not according to the law of a gift, but after the power of the wicked life.
And God made a tumult in the rock in a troop, and water came out of it; and when he drank, his spirit returned unto him, and he was strong again; therefore the name of that place was called worthy; it is a troop unto this day.
Him therefore I hope to send unto you straightway; so quickly I shall see how it will go with me.
And Jehovah said to Bidkar, There are yet many people; bring them down to the water, and I will shake through them for thee: for whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, he shall go with thee; and for all whom I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee; he shall not go with thee.
And it came to pass after him, after him, the governor of Beth-lehem, the judgment of Beth-lehem, the judgment of Israel.
Owe not each his own, but every one of others.
and he laid hold on both the pillars on which the house rested, and the other with his right hand, and the other with his left.
Whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I shall return safely from the children of Ammon, I will offer it as a burnt-offering.
not that I have already obtained, or am already made perfect; but I press on, if it be so that I may take hold of that for which also I was received by Christ Jesus.
We have an altar of which they have no right to eat the service of the tabernacle;
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Shelemiah, Give me now unto me the ephod. And Abiathar brought nigh the ephod unto David.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my family, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore hast thou spoken unto me according to this word?
And Saul gave David his garments of war, and put a mitre of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a coat of mail.
And Saul said unto his father, He told us for certain that the asses were found. But he told him not concerning the king's matters which Samuel had spoken.
But my righteous man liveth by faith; But if he withdraw himself, he will not please my soul.
For ye know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no more of repentance, though he had sought it with tears.
And he waited there seven days, the time appointed of Samuel: and Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people began to depart from him.
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat the service of the tabernacle.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David, The king will not desire any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And the old man said, Peace be unto thee; how let me always stay all that ye have, neither sleep thou in the street.
For we know him that said, To me vengeance; I will recompense, saith Jehovah; and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
And they found themselves to go out against him, and they fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And ye have made the graven images of your wares, and the images of your visitation, that ye have digged the land, and have given glory unto the God of Israel: he shall lighten his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
And after him was Shammai the son of Achbor, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with a portion: and he also delivered Israel.
and said unto him, Behold now, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: give us a king to be our judge, that we may be like the other nations.
And she said, I will with thee go with thee; only that it will not be thy glory upon the way that thou goest, for Jehovah will sell unto us, to the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Bera.
And all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up and came to Beth-el, and wept, and stayed there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, and eat me this day: and in the morning I will let thee go, after I will open unto thee all the secrets of thy heart.
He raiseth up the needy from the dust, And lifteth up the poor from the dunghill, That he may sit with princes, and hold the throne of glory; For the bars of the earth are Jehovah's, and upon them he hath set the world.
And the weight of the rings of gold, which he requested was one thousand, seven hundred shekels of gold, without hooks of gold, without hooks, and purple, and purple, which were upon the kings of Midian, and beside the bands of their camels.
Because of your fellowship with the gospel, from the first day until now.
Having therefore a great high priest, who made his way through heaven, even Jesus the Son of God, let us be strong in our faith.
And it came to pass, when they rose up early on the morning, and, behold, reed fell on his face to the ground before Jehovah's ark, and the head of Dagon, and the hands of his hands were cut off on the threshold; only they repaired the trespass.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were weary. And the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they trusted in the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
The mountains quake before the face of Jehovah, That Sinai, from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
because he longed for all you, and was distressed, because thou hadst heard that he was sick.
And he took thirty friends, and they were with him.
And it came to pass, that Joash the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in lamentation of the chief.
And Jonathan smote the posts of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Amaziah said unto Tekoa, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me with which thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shalt wear the seven locks of my head with the veil.
Yea, I beseech you also, true labourer, help them, who fight with me in the gospel, with the two and the rest of my fellow workmen, whose names are in the book of life.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchi-shua; and the names of his two daughters were these: the name of the first-born, the name of the younger, Michal;
For the ground, which drinketh the rain which cometh upon it, and bringeth forth the thing that is profitable, to whom it is tilled, it is made of blessing from God.
without father, without mother, without genealogies, having neither beginning of the days, nor end of life, but is likened unto the Son of God, abideth a priest for ever.
But Zacchaeus, and Seled, were left with all their host: for fifteen thousand men were left of all the host of the east people, and there were a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew the sword.
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times; and thou hast not told me how thy strength is so great.
and I will draw unto thee unto the valley of Kishon, to Sisera the captain of Jabin's army, and his chariots and his multitude, and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And it was told Saul that David came to Keilah; and Saul said, God hath made him known for my hand; for he was shut in, to enter into a city of doors and bar.
And the time that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was a year and four months.
And Samuel grew up, and Jehovah was with him, and slew not his words to the earth.
His father and mother knew not that this was from Jehovah; he sought for an occasion against the Philistines. At that time the Philistines reigned in Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Though thou wouldest hold me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it up unto Jehovah: for he did not know that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And after whom dost thou pursue? And after a man that is dead, a dog, after a moth.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted quickly to her ass, and fell down upon her face before him.
And David stilled his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on way.
For he, of whom these are said, Of another men shall be divided, whereof there is no blemish in the altar.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and get them from the city unto the highways.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a man? and who is like thee in Israel? and why hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for one of the people came in to destroy the king thy lord.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me, and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall deliver thee up.
And one said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name? when thy words come to pass, we will glorify thee.
The door door, and the king's servants going in, and saw the doors of the guard, and they said, Peradventure he is partakers of jealousy in his summer.
And as they were all found of their faith, they received not what was spoken:
And the multitudes answered him, saying, These things shall be given to the man that shall kill him.
and make straight steps with your feet, that no man, deluding, should go out of the way; but rather be healed.
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the weak places where he hideth himself, and come unto me with truth, and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.
And the Spirit of the spirit answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there is many servants now a days that destroyest every man from his master.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanites that dwelt in Zerah, and utterly destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
And it came to pass on that day, that God subdued with Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for he is come up to reproach Israel, and it is he that smiteth him, the king shall increase him with much riches, and give him his daughter, and let his father's house be made free in Israel.
where your fathers tempted, by proving, and saw my works forty years.
And David took the head of the Philistines to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but the way that thou takest not for thy honor; for Jehovah will sell to Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Bera.
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me.
And when Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Behold, we have returned unto thee; go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and make thee our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And when Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart was greatly afraid.
And David arose, and went, he and his men, and slew two hundred men of the Philistines. Then David brought their course, and gave them in full numbering unto the king, that he might be the king's son: and Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
And it came to pass, when they came, and looked at Eliab; and he said, Behold, the man of the Lord is before him.
that ye may be holy and gentle, the children of God without sin in a perverse and foolish generation, among whom ye are as lights in the world,
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the palaces of Engedi.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth; and they fastened his body unto the wall of Jonathan.
And all the forces of the Philistines gathered together to Aphek; and Israel also encamped by the well that is in Jezreel.
And when he was ninety and eight years old, his eyes were dim, and he could not see.
And he sent and brought him; and he was white and fair eyes; and Jehovah said, Arise, and anoint him; for he is he.
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die; for we have seen God.
And God sent a evil spirit between Abimelech and the citizens of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt very treacherously with Abimelech.
For this cause it must be more abundantly to take heed to the things which are heard, lest we should pass away.
and Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, were the children of Ikkesh.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah will not deliver with the sword, or with the sword; for the battle is Jehovah's; and he will deliver you into our hand.
Now in the things which we say, the church is this. We have such a high priest, who sat on the right hand of the throne of glory in heaven;
So Libnah went over to the children of Ammon to fight upon them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
By faith, Noah, being warned about things, being not seen, being moved with God, prepared a ship for the saving of his house, through which he condemned the world, and the righteousness of righteousness which is according to faith.
And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the point of his spear weighed six hundred and iron shekels: and his shield was walking before him.
And the men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with swords; they were all men of valor.
And they shall ask how thou doest, and will give thee two loaves, which thou shalt take out of their hand.
And he took the oxen, and cut them into all the borders of Israel by messengers, saying, Whosoever shall not come forth, and follow Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went out as one man.
Wherefore, if ye have here five loaves loaves, give them into my hand, or whatsoever thou hast.
And it came to pass, when thou shalt hear what they say, then shall thy hands be strong, and thou shalt go down again to the camp of the enemy; and he went down with his servant into the camp, and the watch of men in his hand.
It must be holden in glory by all, and the wedding bed shall be perfect: for God will judge the fornicators and the adulterers.
But Saul said nothing that day, for he thought, he hath made him unclean: it is manifest that he is not clean.
Rejoice in the Lord always; I will say, Rejoice,
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and who are my brethren, the family of my father in Israel, that I should be a son-in-law to the king?
Without covetousness covetousness, being content with the things present; for he hath said, No; I will not leave, nor forsake thee.
And there was a certain man of Beth-maacah, of the hill-country of Ephraim; and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Zuph, the son of Zuph.
And this shall we do, if God suffer.
And the man of Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
Then smote Baal, and all the people with him, rising up early, and encamped by the side of the well side of the well: the tents of Midian were on the north side of him, under the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And Joash said unto all that had stood against him, Why do ye contend for Baal? do ye save him? he that pleadeth him shall be put to death in the morning: if he be a god, he shall judge him, because he hath broken down his altar.
And the trees said unto the fig tree, Come and reign over us.
Therefore fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth and with your whole heart; for thou hast seen the great works which he hath done among you.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I am with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And we are like all the nations, and our king hath judged us, and went out before us, and fought our battles.
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father in law and her husband were dead, she bowed down and travailed; for her pangs came upon her.
Then Abimelech answered the king, and said, Who among all thy servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is taken into thy council, and is honourable in thy house?
And Elkanah went to Ramoth-gilead, to his house: but the child ministered before Jehovah before the face of meeting the priest.
And Samuel said, Art not thou, if thou little in thine eyes, the heads of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel.
whose voice the earth shook then, and now hath he spoken, saying, Yet once, I shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.
And the house was full of men and women, and there there were all the princes of the Philistines, and upon the roof of three thousand men and women, which sought the lust of Adullam.
And Israel was very poor because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched by the passions of our weak flesh: but we have one that hath been tempted in all points as we ourselves are tempted, but without sin.
Be glad in the Lord at all times: Again I say, Be glad.
Behold, the days are coming when thy arm and the arm of thy father's people are cut off;
of whom the world was not worthy; wandering in the deserts, in the mountains, and in the dens, and in the holes of the earth.
And her adversary provoked her sore, to make her displeased; for Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And she called Samuel, and said, And Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat no unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb unto the day of his death.
Wherefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their course was dead, they fled.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness; without that no man shall see God.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judah: how much more, if we go to Kadesh against the host of the Philistines?
Now there was no oth found in all the land of Israel: for the Philistines had made this grievous thing, lest the Hebrews should make them swords or spears.
And Shuppim sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What is there between you and me that thou hast come to me to make war against my land?
but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And he was sore thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
not turning aside the gathering of ourselves together, as the custom with some; but exhorted one another, and by so much more as ye see the day.
And his sons did not walk in his ways; but the love of money received gifts, and were not righteous in judgment.
And a high priest over God's house.
And thirty sons that were riding on thirty asses, and were captains of thirty cities, which from his name were called Havvoth-jair, which is, the towns of Jair, until this day in the land of Gilead.
So they cut down branches from the trees, every man as he could, and followed their prince; and they compassed it round about the strongholds; and it came to pass that with the smoke and with the fire a thousand men were slain, men and women together, of the inhabitants of Shechem.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, Abide with us, that we may make a kid of a kid for thee.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more any more for him.
Nevertheless, whereto we have now come, let us walk by the same commandment, let us mind the same thing.
that the violence done to the seventy children of Jerubbesheth might come, and that their blood might be laid on Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and on the men of Shechem, who made his hands to slay his brethren.
Let us hold the confession of our hope without wavering; for he is faithful that hath promised);
And he believed David, saying, He hath done much evil unto his people Israel: therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him utterly, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their mighty men was dead, they fled.
And it shall come to pass, when ye shall see the daughters of Shiloh, as the custom is, to dance, come quickly out of the vineyards, and take you every man his wife among them, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards out of the land: wherefore then lay thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? and after whom shall thou pursue? and after a dead dog, after one moth?
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me for David thy son, who is with the sheep.
For he suffered himself to death, but God had mercy on him; and not only upon him, but upon me, that I should not grieve.
And it came to pass, when the morrow was come, that Saul put the people three companies; and he came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the day grew hot; and the rest were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dancing, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
So the Midianites was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more: and the land had rest forty years in the days of the plague.
And he said unto him, Ah Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my thousand is the poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And he ceased from prophesying, and came to the high place.
For we are the circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh:
Remember the prisoners, as though ye were bound captive; remember ye the evil, as though ye also are hurt in the body.
And Jehovah smote a terror in Anathoth, and all his chariots, and all his multitude, with the edge of a sword, at the sight of Tekoa; so that he was a swift to leap from off his chariot, and fled away on foot.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
For they could not bear that which is commanded, and if any beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or a arrow shot through.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Thou shalt not stay in the stronghold; leave, and go into the land of Judah. So David left, and came into the forest of the giant.
And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Where goest thou? and whence comest thou?
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which seemeth good unto thee, tarry till thou hast weaned him; only the Lord establish his word. So the woman waited and nursed her son, until she had weaned him.
Then said Saul unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
that the violence of the seventy children of Jerubbesheth might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the citizens of Shechem, who had made his hands to slay his brethren.
And Gezer went out before the lords of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
and see, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then came out of the vineyards, and take you every man his wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
By faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, made ready a ark for the redemption of his own house, because God had told him that which was not in the time; and by him the world was judged by him, and he obtained his inheritance the righteousness which is by faith.
And Gezer went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
And they went down in the uttermost part of the city, and Samuel said unto Saul, Say unto the young man that he shall pass before us, and he shall pass: and stand thou at this time, and I will cause thee to hear the word of God.
And he restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; then his mother said, I will surely sanctify the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make an graven image and a molten image: now therefore will I restore it unto thee.
And Hamor's brother, his brethren, went over to Shechem; and Shechem's lords believed in him.
And Abimelech and the herdsmen that were with him pursued, and stood at the door of the gate of the city, and the two of them strove against all that were in the field, and smote them.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it, and said, Shall I go with the battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I give it? And Jehovah said, Go on; for to-morrow will I give him into your hand.
And they took their daughters for wives for themselves, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? And Abner answered, Who art thou that cry to the king?
And the thistle said unto the trees, If your good faith ye have anointed me as king over you, then come and take refuge in my shadow: if not, let fire go out of the briers, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us now pass through thy land unto my place.
And he said unto them, Follow me: for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the passages of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over.
And David prevailed over the Philistines with a sling and a stone: and he smote, and slew the Philistines. And as David had no sword in his hand,
So Saul came up to the city of Amalek, and set a ambush in the valley.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and came and died.
Then went the son of Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And the hope of Israel shall not lie, nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
Because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, neither hast thou done the wrath of his wrath upon Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done unto thee what thou shalt show this day.
So I took her, and cut her into sunder, which I have sent through all the land of the heritage of Israel: for they have wrought shame in Israel.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua; and these are the names of his daughters: the elder was called, and Michal the younger:
And if ye can not tell me, then ye shall give unto me thirty linen men, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, and we will hear it.
And before they burnt the fat, the servant of the priest came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give me flesh to boil for the priest: for I will not take of thee unleavened flesh, but herb.
Stay thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: But with me thou shalt be in the watch.
And when Saul heard this he was appeased with the words of Jonathan, and sware, saying, As Jehovah liveth he shall not be slain.
And as thy life hath been much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me from all distress.
But certain men said, How is this man save us? And having no respect for him, they gave him no offering.
And Jonathan said unto David, Saul, my father, is surety for thy death: now, tarry thou in the morning, and hide thyself in a secret place.
who changed the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working by which he is able to subject all things unto himself.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you, and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with thee: and I have walked before you from my youth unto this day.
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out unto thee, and do with us according to all that is good in your sight.
And she said unto her young men, Go on before me: behold, I come after thee. But she told not her husband the Carmelite.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And he judged Israel three and twenty years; and he died, and was buried in Rithmah.
And said unto her, Give me, I beseech thee, a little water; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
Know therefore, and consider what thou shouldest do: for evil hath been determined against our master, and against all his household; and he is such a wicked man, no man can reason with him.
Now all temptation is in a moment, not to be glad but grievous: but afterward that bringeth forth the fruit of the peaceable fruit of righteousness for them that are instructed thereby.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el: and Jehovah was with them.
And Micaiah said unto them, Let me tell you a riddle: if ye shall tell me unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, I will give unto you thirty linen garments, and thirty of raiment.
And the Philistines rose up early, and all the people that were with him, and encamped beside the well; and he had the camp of Midian on the north side by the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And she wept for it seven days, which their feast was; and it came to pass on the seventh day that he told her; for she grieved him; and she told the riddle to the children of her people.
And he divided three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, and empty bowls, and lamps within the vessels.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head; for the lad shall be a Nazirite of God from the womb; and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And it came to pass, when he had come to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, were weary, yet pursued them.
And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul hath smitten his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
whose end is destroyed, whose god is the belly, and the glory of them that are of the earth.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem, and laid his armour in his tent.
For I will be merciful unto their iniquity, And their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And there was honey upon the face of the field, and all the people came to the honey, and the merchants went from it.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that cry to the king?
And the children of Israel departed from thence at that time, every man to his tribes, and to his family; and they went every man out of his inheritance.
And he rose up early in the morning, and went to Saul; and it was told to Samuel that Saul had come to Carmel, and set up a pillar, and went from thence to Gilgal.
And Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put the head of goats' hair at the head, and covered it with garments.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image for themselves; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests for the tribe of the feast, until the day that the ark was carried captive.
For many live, of whom I spake unto you many times, but now speak about even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ;
So David and his men arose, and went, and slew two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their hand, and smote them to the king, that he might reign the king's son. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter Michal.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: your way is toward Jehovah.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he had set up unto Jehovah.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
By faith he went out of Egypt, and not repented by fear of the wrath of the king; for he kept his way, as seeing him that is hidden.
And again, behold, I and the children that God hath given me.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and returned to Ekron on that day.
It is a minister of the sanctuary and of the truth which Jehovah set up, not man.
and having fallen, to restore them again to repentance, because they crucified themselves for themselves the Son of God, and held him up to contempt.
And he said unto him, The men of men were whom ye slew in Tabor? They answered, They were like unto thee, and one of them as the king's son.
And the light of God was yet burning, and Samuel slept in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And the children of Dan sent out of their families five men from their borders, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Haran, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, search the land: and when they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, they lodged there.
And it said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he shall call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. And Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And Saul said, Avenge me between my son Jonathan and me. And Jonathan was taken.
And on that day they called him Havvoth-jair, saying, Let Baal plead with him, because he hath broken his altar.
To try Israel, that they might not keep the way of Jehovah, to walk therein as their fathers did.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Abide, and I will tell thee what Jehovah spake unto me the last night. And he said unto him, Say.
And when it was come to pass, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream, and, behold, a cake of barley bread trembled into the host of Midian, and came into a tent, and smote it that it fell, and overthrew it, that the tent lay on.
And the people of Beth-shemesh sat in the valley, and lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced when they saw it.
and the church of the first-born, who were appointed in heaven, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous people made perfect;
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul did, how he destroyeth the necromancers, and the soothsayers out of the land: wherefore hast thou set a snare for my life to kill me?
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant heareth.
Now the Philistines gathered all their armies unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped by a well that is in Jezreel.
And it came to pass, when they came near the day of Jebus, that the servant said unto his master, Now let us go from our way into this city of the Jebusite, and bury our night there.
And he vowed a vow unto Jehovah, saying, If thou wilt deliver the children of Ammon into my hands,
Knowing reproach for the sake of Christ's sake more than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked unto the reward.
Then went down his brethren, and all the house of his father's house, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the sepulchre of his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.
And Elon the Gilonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants flames of fire:
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: fear ye not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.
For by this manner the elders obtained a testimony.
And the citizens of Gibeah rose up against me, and compassed me about the house by reason of me by night; and they thought to slay me: and my concubine have they humbled so that she died.
For he of whom these are said unto another tribe, out of which no man hath gotten at the altar.
And the men of Israel numbered themselves, beside Benjamin, four hundred thousand men, drawing a sword, every one of these a man of war.
Awake, awake, Tabeel; awake, awake, sound a song; arise, and draw forth thy captives, and take away thy captives, thou son of meeting.
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them; and the young man did not draw his sword; for he was afraid, because he was yet a child.
When Samuel grew old, he appointed his children as judges over Israel.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul; and they spake these words in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And if there was no fire, it cometh out from Abimelech, and devoured the lords of Shechem and the house of Millo: and there came fire out of the masters of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devoured Abimelech.
And they said, What is we ought to give unto him for sin? And they answered,
And the people took of the spoil of the flock and of herds, the first part of the devoted thing, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
For where we sin fully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more any sacrifice for sins:
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken our God, and serve the Baalim.
And the women answered one another in song, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
and he made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city; and all Israel committed fornication with it; and it became a ruin to the whole of his house.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel gathered themselves to Mizpah; and the princes of the Philistines went up against Israel, and the children of Israel heard, and were afraid of the Philistines.
The hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of Midian the children of Israel made themselves the holes which are in the mountains, and the holes, and the strongholds.
And it spake again, and said, Behold, men are coming down from the high part of the land, and one company cometh by the way of the hottest tree toward the oak.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night, and, behold, Saul slept in the midst of the foreskins of the Ethiopians, and his spear clave in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay round about him.
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And at the end of two months she returned unto her father, who did with her as he sware, and was not touched by a man; and it was a statute in Israel.
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with David, and departed from Saul.
And the woman said unto him, But thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cast out of the land that have familiar spirits, and soothsayers: why would ye, by feigned, kill me?
And the children of Benjamin did likewise; and they took wives for each of them, whom they took, and went and returned to their borders; and they built the cities, and dwelt therein.
( for my father fought for you, and avenged his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
And it came to pass, that the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the folds of Zebulun.
And her distress provoked her sore, so that she might tremble; for Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Let your merchandise be without covetousness; For thou hast compassion with such things as thou hast; for he hath said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
And they saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, Declare unto us the door of the city, and let us show thee mercy.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath borne childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel rent them in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And when he heard the voice of the cry, he said, What mean the noise of this uproar? And he hasted, and came and told him.
which a parable to the present time, in which both gifts and sacrifices are offered, which can not be able to discern with conscience, to make perfect him that serveth;
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it over his head, and kissed him, and said, Hath not Jehovah anointed thee over his inheritance?
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were going away from me, and thou hadst not come at the time that had been set; and the Philistines came together at Michmash.
And these are the nations which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, all that had not known all the wars of Canaan.
The trees said unto the vine, Come and reign over us.
And Deborah Zipporah and Bered the son of Nimshi sung that day, saying,
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Avenge David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now be the king's son in law.
and that a man may find his enemy, and send him away; and Jehovah will requite thee good for that which thou hast showed me this day.
If thou shalt hearken unto the fear of Jehovah, thou shalt hear his voice, and thou shalt not go against the commandment of Jehovah; but thou shalt be faithful unto Jehovah thy God; thou and the king shall reign over you, and thou shalt prosper.
But ye did well, when ye had swallowed up my affliction.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And unto the angels he saith, He that maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And thus shall ye say unto him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And it came to pass, when Samuel offered the burnt-offering, that the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered against the Philistines with a great noise on that day, and cast them into confusion, so that they were defeated before Israel.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And those of the sons of Levi, that received the priesthood, have a commandment to bring a tenth from the people according to the law, which is, from their brethren, when they are come down from Abraham.
And now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers: now thy shepherds that were with us, we will not hurt them; neither was there any miss unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And the people that commanded Gilead spake unto one another, saying, Who is the man that shall fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
But let himself eat himself, having taken the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and was found as a man.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched with the trial of our infirmities; but was in all points that we are, but without sin.
Now therefore hearken unto the voice of thy servant, and give thee a little bread; and thou shalt eat some food to thee, when thou goest in thy way.
Neither have his sons walked in his ways, and turned aside after the dishonest gain, and take a bribe, and turn aside judgment.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, and bear his reproach.
And all the people rose up, and lodged all night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And when Samuel was old, he made him judges over Israel.
And when David was returned, when the Philistines was slain, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul, with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a multitude of people beside them, as the sand on the seashore. And they went up encamped in Ezion-geber at the east of Beth-aven.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him unto me in the bed, that I may kill him.
But if ye can not tell me, then shall ye give me thirty shekels, and thirty changes of garments. And they said unto him, Propound thy riddle, that we may hear it.
And Saul said, Proclaim yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring ye to me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and kill them in this place, and eat them in this place, and eat it not against Jehovah, by eating the beasts with the blood. So all the people brought them every man, every man brought his ox in his hand that night, and slew it there.
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the stronghold: depart, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of the giant.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehem Judah of the house of Judah, who was a Levite, and sojourned there.
But the soldiers, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and set up their battle in the place where they had prepared the first day.
So also Christ hath not glorified himself to become high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, this day I have begotten thee.
For if he were on the earth, he would not be a priest, ( there is the priests that are offered after the law,)
But which of the angels hath he told at any time, Sit at my right hand, till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet?
And Deborah, the wife of the wife, the wife of Oded, was she judged Israel at that time.
being confident of this very thing, that he which was perfect work in you shall fulfil it until the day of Jesus Christ.
And the princes of Succoth said, Is the hand of Zebah and Zebah in thy hand now, that we should give bread to thy host?
And this is the more also, if the second priest shall come up that is like Melchizedek,
And they served Jehovah all his days, and the days of the elders that lived after him, and knew all the works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
But ye have forsaken me, and serve other gods; therefore I will not save you.
And he fell down at her feet, and he died, and he died: he rolled before her feet, and he lay the flesh of the poor.
And the king said to the guard that stood by him, Turn down, and put to death the priests of Jehovah, for their hand also with David; and because they know that he fled, and have not uncovered mine ear. And the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to come against the priests of Jehovah.
And it came to pass one day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the camp of the Philistines, which is on the other side of the Philistines; but he told not this to his father.
And he stripped off his clothes, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And there was a certain man of Joppa, of mount Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Zuph, the Ammonitess;
And all the congregation sent and spake unto the sons of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and told them peace.
And Joash said unto all that stood near him, Will ye contend for Baal? or will ye save him? he that striveth for him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself, because they have broken down his altar.
saying, Be sure that I will bless thee, and multiply thee.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go every one unto thy own city.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I took Israel out of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of all the kingdoms that kept you,
Remember ye prisoners, as ye are bound with; those that are slanderously treated, as ye are also in body.
Wherefore, when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not have; but thou hast a body ready to me:
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
But, Gehazi fled on his feet unto the tent of Jehiel the wife of Eber the Kenites: for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Eber the Kenites.
And the men, and the hundred men that were with him, went into the uttermost part of the camp, the first of the midst of the guard; only the watchmen did establish the watch), and they blow with trumpets, and the vessels that were in their hand.
For when they came up out of Egypt, Israel went into the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And the son of Amasa went down to Timnah, and his father and his mother, and came to the vineyard of Timnah; and a young lion ran out at him.
And Jonathan cried unto the lad, saying, Go fast, haste; delay not. And Jonathan's servant gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt thou yet prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his stead.
But that which beareth thorns and briers is rejected, and is near to cursing; whose end is to be burned.
And Samuel returned with Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And when he had presented the gifts unto him, he followed his companions that came with him.
And he judged Israel and three years old, and died; and he was buried in Horhamite.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day. And the battle went up unto Bethaven.
And all the congregation sent to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were at the rock of Rimmon, and to proclaim peace unto them.
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and one young goat, and sent them unto Saul by the hand of David his son.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and that he hath hewn down the Asherah that was by it.
For men also swear by a greater man, and by every reason of them the oath is the end of the Lord.
And he smote his death, and his body was buried at Beth-lehem.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me if what thy father answered thee?
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And Saul and all the children of Israel heard these words of the Philistines, and they were afraid of fear.
And the tribes of Israel sent men to all the families of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that hath been done among you?
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And it was answered, O son, the son of law, the prophet, because he took away his wife, and gave her to another, and did these things. And the Philistines went up, and burned both the woman and her father.
And Saul's brother said unto him, Tell me, what did Samuel say unto thee?
And they departed thither to go in to lodge in Gibeah. And he went in, and sat down in the open place of the city; and there was none that received him into his house to pass the night.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: he was the first altar, he built unto Jehovah.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the men of Israel gave place to the Benjamite, because they had trusted unto the intent which they had set beside Gibeah.
whose voice shook the earth at that time, but now he hath spoken, saying, Yet once I will shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
which was a figure for the time, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience;
And they cut off his head, and stripped his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
But when they came up from Egypt, then Israel walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And they sent messengers unto the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah: come down, carry it up unto you.
And when he cometh again in the first-born into the world he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And God humbled that day as Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And when Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.
For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now.
And the days of the days that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and lifted him up, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol, in the sepulchre of his father. And he had judged Israel twenty years.
And he went down and talked with the woman; and she loved the son well.
But the children of Israel had compassion for Benjamin their brethren, and said, This is the tribe of Israel cut off from Israel.
So the Spirit of Jehovah took part upon, and blew upon the trumpet, and blew the trumpet, and the eighteenth were called.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me, and my men, into the hands of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And the lot spake unto them, and commanded them to say unto the king of Ammon,
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, priest of the Most High, who met Abraham, returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
and it came to pass, that when they had spoken unto him that ran, that ran, the son of Jerubbesheth, that came up to mount Tabor.
He shall take the tithe of thy sheep, and ye shall serve him.
And the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, saying,
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul was lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take, I pray thee, one of the servants with thee, and get up; go and seek the she-asses.
And when David had spoken these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice David, my son? And Saul wept with weeping.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the travail, and his name was Shua; and his wife had never brought forth a child.
From now wait until his enemies are footstool for his feet.
And Noah said to Bidkar, Until now thou hast mocked me, and told me, and say unto me, Tell me how thou canst be bound. And he said unto her, If thou weave seven locks of my head with lye.
And it came to pass on that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down into the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
For he hath said this, the seventh day, God resteth on the seventh day from all his works.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not save thee from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
Now the Midianites, Amalek, and all the people of the east were lying in the valley, as a great multitude of locusts; their camels were without number, as the sand that is upon the sea.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off the spirits and the soothsayers out of the land; and why hast thou laid a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
Therefore deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; but if there be iniquity in me, slay me thyself; for why should thou bring me unto thy father?
But yet it is yet discerned, if another priest shall be according to the likeness of Melchizedek:
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, behold, I will give her unto thee as wife: only be thou a mighty man to me, and fight the battles of Jehovah. For Saul thought, My hand shall not be against him; but let the hand of the Philistines be against him.
And Saul had given Michal his daughter, the wife of David, to Pekah the son of Laish, the son of Gallim.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, David my son? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
and ye shall take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart; and put the gold jewels, which ye shall return unto him for a trespass offering, in a exile by its side, and send it away, that it may go.
And it came to pass by faith, they passed over the Red Sea as if on dry land; and the Egyptians, when they sought, were fled.
And it was so, that he rose up early in the morning, and empty the wool in his hand, and he brought out a bowl full of water from the dew upon the wool.
And Samuel took a stone, and laid it between Mizpah, between Mizpah; and he called the place of strength. And he said, Thus far Jehovah hath helped us.
And Gaiah the son of Birzaith said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbesheth? and Shebna his chamberlain? and he kept his charge to the men of Hamor the father of Shechem. Why should we serve him?
And Saul said, I will give her to him, and she shall be a snare to him, and the hand of the Philistines is upon him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt be my son-in-law to-day.
For a covenant is of power, after men are dead; otherwise it is as yet of no strength, while the Chaldeans liveth.
And Jehovah said to Bidkar, By the three hundred men that lalled will I save thee, and give Midian into thy hand; and let all the people go every man to his place.
Remove not your confidence, which hath a great reward.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath smitten the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to tens of thousands of angels, to the feast that is made;
The first therefore therefore had the ordinances of service, and the sanctuary, the same is the sensual.
And his uncle said unto him, Tell me what Samuel said unto thee.
And Saul said unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it, so that these uncircumcised men come not, and thrust me through, and make a fool of me: but his armorbearer would not do so because he was very afraid. So Saul took the sword, and fell upon it.
And Samuel took a savoury lamb, and sacrificed it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah. Then Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
And Saul went to Gibeah to his house; and with him went the men of war, whose heart was touched by God.
And David prospered in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
Are not these things which thy god abhorreth, due to thee by right? But that which Jehovah our God hath gotten, shall be our possession.
And he said unto the elders of the elders of Gilead, Hast thou not hated me, cast me away from my father's house? wherefore then come thou unto me now when thou art in trouble?
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, David my son? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What thing thou hast done to us, that thou caldst us not, when thou wentest to fight with Midian? And they reasoned with him sharply.
and thus he said, Sacrifices and offerings, and whole burnt-offerings, and sacrifices for sin, ye have not desired, neither hath pleasure in them; they that are offered according to the law),
And the princes of all the people, even all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand, who were carried captive captive.
And it came to pass, as she was riding upon the ass, and went down the mountain, that David and his men came down to meet her; and she met them.
And she said unto her young men, Go before me: behold, I come after thee: but she told not the woman of Nabal.
And as it is appointed unto men to die, and after this is the judgment:
And there fell of Benjamin, eighteen thousand men: all these were men of valor.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, very good, and keep silence: be not slack to go to possess the land.
Therefore Jehovah forsook those nations, without driving them out, neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
and because by the law of God death cometh to men once, and after that they are judged.
And they told Saul, and sent other messengers, and they prophesied. And Saul sent messengers a third time, and they prophesied also.
Take courage, and act like men, ye Philistines; lest ye come to be servants to the Hebrews, as they have served you; take courage and fight.
And he took his people, and divided them into three bands, and sat in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the city, he went up, and fought against them.
Since then the children have been made in flesh and blood, he also himself also took of the same way, that by death he might bring to nought him that had the power of death, which is, the devil;
And Shema the son went down with his father and his mother to Timnah; and when they were come to the vineyards of the city, behold, a young lion met him raging and roaring.
( for they have been made priests without an oath, but by an oath by him that saith of him, The Lord hath sworn, and shall not repent, thou shalt be a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And it came to pass, when the man rose up to depart, his father in law urged him: and he lodged there again.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed peace-offerings before Jehovah. And Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak to her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses: and she brought him into her father's house: and when the damsel's father saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in strongholds, and dwelt in the hill-country, in the wilderness of Ziph: and Saul sought him all the days, and God did not deliver him into his hand.
And the Philistines came and drew near David; and the man that bare the javelin was before him.
There was no deliverer, because it was far off from Sidon, neither had they hated any man: it was in the valley that pertained to Rehob; and they builded the city, and dwelt therein.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may kill them.
But if ye will yet do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.
And Abigail arose, and made haste, and got upon an ass, and five maids went with her, her looking virgins: and she followed the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And his mother's brethren spake of him to all the men of Shechem, all these words: and they turned their hearts after Abimelech, saying, He is our brother:
who shall repent the body of our passions, and made like the body of his glory, according to the work by which he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
If a man trespass unto another, God will judge him: but if a man's sin is against Jehovah, who will take up his cause? But they hearkened not to the voice of their father; for Jehovah would destroy them.
If thy young men say they shall say the same thing. Now therefore let my young men find favor in thine sight; for we are come in a good time; I pray thee, I pray thee, thou shalt have by thee unto thy servants, and unto thy son David.
And it was told by God a chief priest, according to the order of Melchizedek,
And now, swear unto me by Jehovah, thou shalt not destroy my seed after me, neither shalt thou destroy my name from my father's house.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel;
And God hearkened unto the voice of man: and the angel of God came to the woman when she sat in the field: but her husband was not with her.
the teaching of baptizing, and the putting on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of the judgment on the last day.
And it came to pass, that seventy sons that came out of his loins, that he had many wives.
And my God will give you all that ye have need of the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
Then David fled from Ramah in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is my iniquity, and what is my sin before thy father, that he should kill me?
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Sheva son the son of the freewoman, because he took his wife, and gave her unto him. And the Philistines went up, and burned her, and her father with fire.
And when the people saw the people, and said unto Shebna, Behold, people shall come down from the top of the hills. And there said unto him, Thou shalt see the shadow of the hills like men.
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and riding upon an ass, with five women's wives that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And the baptism of Enoch was interpreted, not to see death, and was not found, because God hath visited him: for before his departure he had been testified unto that which he had pleased God.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he oppressed the children of Israel many years.
Now therefore take, and make a new cart, and two kine that have brought forth, whereon hath come no yoke, bind to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And they took two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb upon the rock of Oreb; and as as as as as as they were as they had slain in the winepress, they pursued with Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and as far as the other side of the Jordan.
And one of the young men answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Gilonite, who is skilful in playing, a mighty man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and a fair man; and Jehovah is with him.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand: but surely we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two rough cords, and brought him up from the rock.
If any man sin against another, God be entreated for him: but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? And they hearkened not to the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
And it came to pass in that day, that platter, the son of Potiphera, the anointed, and Bered, and said,
And the old man went out unto them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not so wickedly: for this man is come into my lodging, and I turn you away from this folly.
But they returned, six hundred men, and fled unto the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness, and dwelt on the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And Israel humbled himself greatly before Midian.
And the woman asked, Whom shall I bring up for thee? And he said, Bring up Samuel for me.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and beat, and called the name thereof, saying, Jehovah helped us until now.
and Christ, as a Son over his house, whose house are we, if we hold the boldness and the joy of hope unto the end, we hold fast.
Speak unto all the men of Shechem, saying, Peradventure seventy men, all the sons of Bichri, should rule over thee, or that one man should rule over you? and know that I am thy bone, and thy flesh.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: make us a king, to judge us, as all the nations have.

God also testified with them, both by signs and wonders, by manifold works of power, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
They will salute you, and give you two loaves of bread, which ye shall receive out of their hand.
Now he was ninety and twenty years old, and his eyes were fixed, that he could not see.
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
But they forgat Jehovah their God, so he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Then said the elders of Jabesh unto him, Let us leave us for seven days, that we may send messengers throughout all the borders of Israel; and if there be no help for us, we will come forth unto thee.
who is faithful unto him that made him, as Moses also in all his house.
Therefore I said, Now the Philistines shall come down against me unto Gilgal; and I have not entreated the favor of Jehovah. I therefore have taken myself, and offered the burnt-offering.
But a certain scribe hath testified, saying, What is man, that ye think him in mind? what is the son of man, that thou takest him?
who shall prove our humble body to be conformed to his glorious body, according to the power which he hath made him to subject to himself all things.
And when the flame went up to heaven from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, while he interpreted, and his wife looked; and they bowed on their faces to the ground.
And Abimelech said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man that is mad: why did ye bring him to me?
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, O young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Gilonite.
For Jehovah chasteneth him whom he loveth, And giveth him every son whom he receiveth.
And it came to pass, that year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel, even eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And Judah took Gaza with her border, and Ashkelon, and Ekron, with their border.
and say, Wherefore, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath this been in Israel, that it should be required of old from Israel?
And they said, Which one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Jehovah at Mizpah? And, behold, there came no man from Jabeshgilead into the camp, unto the assembly.
And David knew that Saul had conspired against him, and said unto Abiathar the priest, Come thou here with the ephod.
But the Amorite would dwell in the hill-country of Gihon in Aijalon, and in carving of it; yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, that they might be tributaries.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass-offering: then thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto you wherefore his hand is not taken away from you.
And he pursued and put him away, and cast him into the city: and they were slain of his people, even to the gate of the city.
that is to say, Not by a law set on the flesh, but by the power of a living life;
If then he were on the earth, he would not be a priest: seeing that there might be others to offer gifts according to the law,
Let us therefore fear, lest, not, being left us from entering into his rest, any of you should think of you.
And the men did so, and take two handmaids, and bind them in the cart, and shut their young ones in the house.
Why dwell thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the tender pleasure of the flock? In the divisions of Reuben there were great understanding.
But he, having offered one sacrifice for sins, sat down in the right hand of God.
And he lighted fire in the lamps, and he sent out the grain of the Philistines, and burnt from heaps even to the standing grain, even to the vineyards.
And again, when he brought in the first begotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And through the land of Sheba, and had not found them, they passed through the land of Beer-sheba, and they were not there; and through the land of Iddo, and found them not.
I will not again drive out any man from among them from the nations that Joshua left when he died;
And David came to Ziklag, and sent some of the goods to the elders of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Behold, here is a offering for you of the substance of them that strove against Jehovah;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, If thou wilt keep me, I will not eat thy bread: but if thou prepare a burnt-offering for Jehovah, thou shalt offer it ( for he hath not known that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hear thou the words of man, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy harm?
Wherefore, receiving the kingdom, we have grace, wherewith we serve God with fear and fear.
And Azariah the son of Ahitub the son of Phinehas the son of Phinehas, the son of meeting the priest of Jehovah, was girded with the ephod; and the people knew not whither Jonathan was gone.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his eyes.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not in the days appointed, and that the Philistines assembled themselves together at Michmash;
And her wise women answered her; Yea, she answered her,
then will I send word to my servant, Go, find the arrows; and if I say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon this side of thee; bring it, and come; for it shall be a peace unto thee; and there is none to thee, as Jehovah liveth.
And she wept before him the seven days of the feast; and on the seventh day she gave him trouble; and immediately she told her, and told her.
Manasseh also destroyed not Bethshean, and Taanach with their villages, nor the inhabitants of Dor, and Ibleam, and Megiddo with their villages. And the Canaanite dwelt with them.
And Samuel said, Wherefore askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath departed from thee, and is gone over to thee;
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they escape not that refused him that spake upon the earth, much more shall we not escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven.
Now there was a certain man in the wilderness of Maon, and his possessions were in Carmel, and the man was very great: and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and it came to pass, that he was keepers of sheep in Carmel.
So David was hid in the field, and the new moon came, and the king sat down to eat bread.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and returned to Ekron the same day.
Forgive the iniquity of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make for my lord a faithful house; because thou, my lord, hast Jehovah tried the battles of Jehovah: let not evil therefore be found in thee all the days of thy life.
And David went to pass whithersoever Saul had sent him, and prospered: and Saul set him at the head of his men of war. And this was good to all the people, as well as to Saul's servants.
but if ye can not tell me unto me, then thou shalt give me thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Tell us thy riddle, that we may hear it.
For every high priest shall be made for the gift both of gifts and sacrifices; where it is needful for him to have any thing that he may offer.
I will turn unto him unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth he shall be lent unto Jehovah. Then they worshipped Jehovah.
And David enquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Now faith is confidence of things: hope of things that are not seen.
Again he made a certain day a day, a day, speaking by David after so long a time, as it was said before, To-day, if thou hear his voice, harden not thy heart.
And he left them under the king of Moab: and they abode with him all the days that David was in the guard.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
They shall perish, but ye shall continue; They shall grow old like a garment.
So Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him unto me in the bed, that I may kill him.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the soothsayers, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? shew us how we should send it to its place.
And he said, Thou hast taken away my gods which I had made, and the priest, and thou shalt go away; what is now left for me? how shall thou say unto me, What is the matter?
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the young calf that thy father hath, even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it;
And when he saw that he had trusted in her, so she sent and called the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up one time, for he hath trusted in me. And the princes of the Philistines came up, and brought the money with them.
Thus will God do unto the enemies of David, and so he shall increase, if I leave of all that he hath until the morning, of them that sit upon the wall.
Are they not all servants, sent out to serve for the sake of them that shall inherit salvation?
And the child Samuel served before Jehovah, and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, and there was no vision.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man to his tribe, and every man of his family, every man returned unto his inheritance.
And Deborah said unto Bidkar, Go, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand: hath not Jehovah gone out before thee? So ran down thither from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and toward the south of Jokneam.
And Jehovah said to Bidkar, By the three hundred men that lateth will I save thee, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand: let all the other people go, every one unto his place.
For then he ought to have suffered many times from the beginning of the world: but now once at the end of ages, he hath appeared for the destruction of sin by the sacrifice of himself.
But when they had died, they stopped themselves, and acted corruptly, more than their fathers, after other gods, serving them, and bowed down to them; they would not give up their doings, nor their own ways.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived days after Joshua, who saw all the great work of Jehovah which he did unto Israel.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah magnified Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil before Jehovah.
which we have like the parts of the soul, both firm and right, and entering into the inner part of the curtain;
And now, know, and consider what thou doest; for evil hath been determined against our lord, and against all his house; and he is a vile son to be spoken unto him.
And he said unto her, What doth he look like? And she said, A old man cometh up; and he was covered with a robe. And Saul knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed down with his face to the ground, and showed favor.
The mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarriest the wheels of his chariots?
And David came to the two hundred men that had been weary, and could not follow David, and he commanded them to dwell in the valley of the valley, and came out to meet David, and the people that were with him. And David came to the people to salute them.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man to his place.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Ahijah.
So the children of Dan sent five mighty men of their stock, from Seraiah from Seraiah and Zebulun, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go and see the land. And when they came to mount Ephraim, they went into the house of meeting, and rested there.
And they took their bones, and buried them under the shekel at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah in the way to Shur, which is before Egypt.
And God clave the rock that was in a troop, and water came out of it; and he drank, and his spirit came again, and he revived: therefore the name thereof was called to be a rock, which is in a troop unto this day.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until evening, and enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall we again draw near from the war against the children of Benjamin, our kinsmen? And Jehovah said, Go up against them.
Then the princes went down to the gates; The people of the Lord went down among the mighty.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree between Ramah and Beth-el in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up unto her for judgment.
And she called the child, and said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law.
I thought that thou hated her, and I gave her to thy friend: but she hath a sister, who is the younger, and the beauty of her, and take her to wife instead of her.
And after him repaired the son of Achbor, who smote him, and slew him six hundred Philistines with an staff; and he saved himself to Israel.
being able to preserve the ignorant and erring, seeing he also is clothed with infirmity.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent it as the ends of a young goat, and nothing was in his hand: and he told not his father, or his mother what he had done.
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father hath bound the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that shall eat any bread this day. And the people were faint.
and did eat the good saying of God, the powers also of the world.
He came into a troop, and the Philistines shouted at the assembly of him; and the Spirit of Jehovah prospered over him, and the thick bands whereon his arms were like flax, which they burned with fire, and his bands were wasted from off his hands.
And the midwives that were with the Philistines yesterday and the day before, went up with them into the camp, and returned to be with the children of Israel, who were with Saul and Jonathan.
Wherefore the sons of the young men was exceeding great before Jehovah, because they departed from the sacrifice of Jehovah.
And Jehovah hearkened to Hanun, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters, while the young man Samuel waxed up with Jehovah.
Then the remnant of the honorable he gave to rule the people of Jehovah: He caused me to rule among the mighty.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us: for there is not there like this heretofore.
lest there be any whoremonger, or profane, as Esau; who for one portion, sold his birthright.
And the Philistines were subdued, and came no more into the borders of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
But the lad knew not anything: but Jonathan and David knew the matter.
We have an altar, whereof they have no power to eat that served the tabernacle.
For he was sick of death: but God had mercy on him: and not on him only, but also on me, lest I should grieve on sorrow.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he filled the mountain, but not to drive out the inhabitants of the valley; for they have chariots of iron.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor, that through the grace of God he might taste death for all.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem, to his mother's brethren, and spake to them, and to all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, and host against war.
For if Jesus had brought them into rest, he would not have spoken after another day.
And David fled, and departed, and came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Timnah.
And Saul went up from the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
And they sent messengers unto the children of Benjamin, that were in the rock Rimmon, and commanded them to receive them in peace.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
For it is impossible of them that once once, and have tasted the heavenly gift, and are partakers of the Holy Spirit.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Megiddo, to make oth king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served sorrows, and smote them eight years.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for the sake of his great name, because Jehovah hath determined to make you his own people.
And when he was come, he sat upon a journey over the way watching: for his heart was terrible for the ark of God. And when the man was come into the city, he told it, and all the city cried out.
And Baal-hanan the ruler of the city heard the words of Agur the son of Imla, his anger was kindled.
And David said unto his heart, Now I am consumed one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing for me better than that I would escape to the land of the Philistines: but Saul was perplexed from me, and sought me any more in all the borders of Israel, and I escaped out of his hand.
having a golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant overlaid on all sides with gold, in which was a golden vessel, holding the manna, the rod of Aaron that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And the meal-offering took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, that is left, set it before thee, and eat; for it was good for thee, when I called the people. And Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
And it came to pass, that, after he had called all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the rising of the nations as far as the river Kishon.
Woe unto us! for there was no such great joy yesterday and the day before: woe unto us! who shall deliver us from the hand of these gods? these are the gods that smote Egypt with all the plagues in the wilderness.
And David again inquired of Jehovah; and Jehovah answered him, saying, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I am giving the Philistines into thy hand.
And they sent and gathered all the nobles of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about to Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel.
So the priest gave him a holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the bread that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
For every high priest is appointed in order to offer both gifts and sacrifices; therefore it was necessary for this man to have something that he offereth.
And David said unto Abishai, Neither is there not here under thy hand sword or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me; for the king's business was urgent.
As for a thousand man, O Jehovah, unto the order of Melchizedek.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan told him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him as beforetime.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
and fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, I beseech thee, let the iniquity be: but let thy bondmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
But if ye have done in truth and in truth and with his house this day, rejoice in Abimelech; and he shall rejoice in you.
And Ezekiel said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them up before me, shall I be your head?
And when Saul saw that he was very wisely, he was afraid of him.
And it came to pass, when Hezekiah had done this, that she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son, and awaked out of his sleep, and pulled out the nail with the hairs and the cord.
And the men that were not found died, and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And the Hebrews that were for the Philistines aforetime, which went up with them into the camp round about, they joined the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And he said thus, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son: take heed no wine, nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazirite of God from his youth, from his mother's womb unto the day of his death.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him a king.
And when the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim was in the bed, with the head of goats' hair at his head.
And when he had been fulfilled, he became the Saviour of eternal salvation;
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and encamped in the valley.
And she arose, and bowed herself upon her face to the ground, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a maid-servant, to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought thee up out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
And it came to pass, when Saul had taken his place as the governor of Israel, that he fought against them that were against him, Moab, and the children of Ammon, and the children of Ammon, and the kings of Zobah, and the kings of Zobah, and the king of the Philistines: and he went along, and smote them.
But a certain woman cast a great stone upon the head of Abimelech's head.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that saith, Saul reigneth over us! give ye up the men, and we kill them.
Beware that ye hear his voice which cometh unto thee. For, if they have heard the voice which came to them on the voice which came to them on earth, that we should not obey, what should we obey him whose voice cometh from heaven?
And Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
But ye know the proof of him, that as a child served a father, so he served with me in the end of the gospel.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and spake them in the ears of Jehovah.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people spake to stone him, because the souls of all the people were grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
By faith, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he had testified to him that he was righteous; and God testified to his gifts; and through it he, being dead, yet speaketh.
Then she said unto her father, Only do this for me: let me have two months to go away into the mountains, and weep for my mourning.
And it came to pass, when the Jews arose early on the morrow, that, behold, reed fell upon his face unto the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. And they rose up, and went away that night.
For every house is builded by one; but he that built all things is God.
Then after a time he went to take her, and turned aside from the way to see the dead body of the lion, and saw a heap of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? and after whom dost thou pursue? and after a dead dog, after a little man?
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
For a covenant shall be established over the dead sacrifice; for it shall be no spoil at all when the manslayer liveth.
In like manner ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And the king sent to fetch melech the son of Ahitub the priest, and all his father's household, the priests that were at Nob: and they came all of them unto the king.
that from year to year the daughters of Israel go to celebrate the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in the year.
saying, Verily I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee.
And Saul inquired of Jehovah: Shall I pursue after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not that day.
And it came to pass, when the lad was gone, that David came from his secret place by the hill, and fell upon the ground, and fell upon his face three times: and they kissed one another, weeping together, until David's grief was great.
Let your desire be for peace with all men, and to be sanctified, without that no man can see Jehovah.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in a narrow time ( for the people were distressed, then the people hid themselves in the caves, and in the thickets, and in the rocks, and in the high places, and in pits.
And unto this day there is no priest of Dagon, or any that entered into Dagon the house, and shall put his foot upon the threshold of the house of Dagon in Ashdod.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer, and in the towns thereof, and in all the cities that are by the banks of the Arnon, three hundred years, why did ye not recovered within that time?
let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, sprinkled as our hearts from a evil conscience, and washed as our body with pure water.
And he said unto them, Follow after me: for Jehovah hath given your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and have not suffered a man to pass over.
And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses near to the house of Micah, were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
Then said Saul unto his servant, Thou hast spoken; come, let us go. And they went into the city where the man of God was.
Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Naphtali, nor the inhabitants of fifty men; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributary.
But the Lord said unto him, Peace be with thee; fear not: thou art in no fear of death.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah gave to Samuel in Shiloh the revelation of his word.
But this man offering one sacrifice for sins; for ever sitteth on the right hand of God.
Howbeit we will not give them wives of our daughters; for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And the Philistines drew near the morning and the evening, and offered himself forty days.
And he said, What is the word which he hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me; so will God do unto thee, and so he will add, if thou hide me a word of all the words that he hath spoken unto thee.
And he took his staff in his hand, and fetched five golden stones from the midst of the brook, and put them in a sack, such as was sold by a pole; and in his hand was a girdle of sealskin; and he went in the way of the Philistines.
Stay with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: thou art in good care with me.
and took a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he told him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.
They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the days of our being with them, feeding the flock.
And they passed from thence to mount Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
It is so, that it is so, that God hath dealt with you sons: For what is the son of the son that hath no father?
But with the fulness of the perfect food, that because of the work they have taught their own sins for the judgment of both good and evil.
For this cause also I have lent unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth he shall be lent unto Jehovah: and he worshipped Jehovah there.
And Saul took three thousand men, chosen of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
And the men that did not die were smitten with the boils; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the fruit of the land, until thou come to Gaza; and they left no food in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Judah went forward against the Canaanite, that dwelt in Hebron ( ( the name of which was beforetime was Kiriath-arba),) and Ahiman, and Talmai, and Talmai.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bring thee, and deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Give me your oath, that ye shall not fight against me.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house, and there he judged Israel; and he built there an altar unto Jehovah.
And when the people saw the host, he said to Shebna, Behold, men are coming down from the top of the mountains. And said unto him, The shadows of the mountains look unto thee, behold, the skies.
Remember ye thy princes, who spake unto thee the word of God; and considered the issue of their life, and follow their faith.
and delivered them that through fear of death were all their days under bondage.
If ye therefore have dealt faithfully and truth with rebellion and his house this day, rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you.
On the third day ye shall go down quickly, and go into the place where thou hid thyself in the day all this, and remain beside the stone.
and let us consider one another, to the love and good works;
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
I went about unto the end of the Christ Jesus in Christ Jesus.
This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And because of this he is a new covenant, that, because a death is taken up for the redemption of transgressions, committed in the first covenant, they that are called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
But I have faith in the Lord that I will come before.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow, when the sun is hot, ye shall have peace. And the messengers came, and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
And it came to pass, when the day came for Elkanah to make his offering, that he gave to shear his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, the portion of the feast;
And David said unto the men, What shall be done unto the man that overcometh this of the Philistines, and take away the shame from Israel? for who is this master, then a man uncircumcised, that he hath healed the host of the living God?
And when I saw this, I put my life in my own hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: and what have I required that ye should rise up to fight against me?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest wrath run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with the living of thy house.
by faith he dwelt as a sojourner in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise.
For we are the circumcision, who in spirit serve God, and glory in Christ Jesus, not having confidence in the flesh.
And these are the gold of gold which the Philistines returned for a trespass offering unto Jehovah; for Ashdod, for Gaza, for Ashkelon, one, and Gath, for Ekron,
Thou shalt make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; thou shalt break down their altars; but ye have not hearkened to my voice; wherefore hast ye done this?
For unto which of the angels hath he said in any time, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And Hanun spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard; and she thought she was drunken.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice and wept.
that five princes of the Philistines, all the Canaanites, the Sidonians, and the Hivites, living upon mount Lebanon, from mount Baal Hermon, unto Hamath.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have reckoned up all that Amalek did to Israel: I will also deliver them in the way when they came up out of Egypt.
And he gathered up his nine hundred chariots that were armed with mastery, and all his host from the poorest of the nations unto the brook of the brook.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away two months, and she went, and her friends; and she wept for her virginity upon the hills.
And if he were on the earth, he would not even be a priest; for there are they that offer the gifts according to the law,
And the king said, Make haste, and see his son this young man.
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, and he gave him the name of Abimelech.
And Enoch said unto the Tekoites, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, with which thou mayest be bound.
having a golden vessel in it for incense, and the ark of the covenant, which was anointed with gold, and that had in it a pot made of gold for the manna, and the rod of Aaron that did pour forth, and the tables of the covenant of the covenant;
and not by the blood of goats and oxen, but by his own blood, he entered in once into the most holy place, the eternal redemption.
And he smote them and thigh with a great slaughter; and he went down and dwelt in the cave in the rock of the rock of the rock.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah on the Midianites,
For our God is a devouring fire.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem Judah, and I go to sojourn where I shall find.
and said unto him, Thus saith sharply: Israel took not the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon.
And after him, he was Abdon the son of Hakkatan, the Pirathonite, the judges of Israel.
And Saul said unto his young man, Thy word is good: come, we go. And they went into the city where the man of God had.
And at the time of her death, when the women that stood by her say, Fear not, for thou hast borne a son; she hath not answered, nor set her heart.
who was sent away, and went into the land of the province, and built there a city, and called it Luz, which is so called unto this day.
Thou shalt cry in that day because of thy king whom thou shalt choose for thyself; and Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, Jehovah will be with thee.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Zalmonah to Ashdod.
And Rachel's wife wept before him, and said, Thou shalt hate me; thou shalt not love me; thou hast told the riddle unto my people, but thou hast not declared it to me. And he said unto her, I have not declared it to my father and to my mother; why should I tell it unto thee?
If by any means I may obtain the resurrection of the dead.
And Jonathan spake good of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee; for that which he had been very profit unto thee.
And the destroyers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Libnah.
And the six hundred men armed with their weapons of war, who were of the children of Dan, at the entrance of the gate.
For it is impossible for them that once light, having tasted of the heavenly gift, and having been partakers of the Holy Spirit.
Consume the violence of the fire, and escape from the edge of the sword, and escape strength from weakness, being strong in battle, put to flight the armies of strangers.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armour in his tent.
And Samuel turned about to go away: but he laid hold on the skirt of his garment, and it rent.
And his name was at Ziklag that day: for this day, the kings of Judah, unto this day.
for those that were born of them, for those in the cities of the hired elite, for those in the cities of the Kenites,
And the people saw him, and praise their god; for they said, Our god hath given our enemy in our hand, and he that lay waste our land, and multiplied our slain.
And they stayed until they were confounded: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper chamber; and they took the key, and opened; and, behold, their lord fell upon the earth dead.
And they turned and went, and put the little children, and the cattle, and the precious substance before them.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, we have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehem Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite; and he dwelt there.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness, that nothing was left of all that belonged unto him; and he hath rewarded me evil for good.
And Saul said, No man shall be put to death on this day: for this day Jehovah hath established deliverance in Israel.
And the house of Joseph sent to Hamath-Beth-el; now the name of the city before was Luz.
And he brought the gift to Eglon king of Moab; and it was a very fat man.
And Saul saw, and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him.
And the princes of the Philistines came forth, and it came to pass from the time when they came out; and David increased more than any of the servants of Saul; and his name was very precious.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, cakes of bread unto the people that are at my feet; for they have fainted, and I will pursue after Zebah and as Zalmunna the kings of Midian.
These shall perish, and thou shalt be left, and all as a garment shall be old.
And the messenger answered, and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there is also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, even their burnt-offerings, and Phinehas died, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass, when he had ended speaking, that he cast away the jaws out of his hand, and called the bonds of Ahijah.
And he took up his position, and said unto the hosts of Israel, Why are ye come out to fight? am I not a Philistines and servants of Saul? send out a man for thyself, and let him come down to me.
And now, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it?
And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day to fight against me?
They shall perish, but thou shalt abide; And they all shall wax old as a garment.
And Abdon the son of Potipherah, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim in the hill country of the Amalekites.
Therefore therefore forgive my sin, and return with me to worship Jehovah.
And David said unto them, Do not so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us: he hath delivered us, and hath given the band of a band which came against us into our hand.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man whom I spake unto thee, this man shall reign over my people.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I will punish Amalek what he did to Israel, when he fought against him in the way when Israel came out of Egypt.
And it came to pass about a month after this that the Ammonite came up, and fought against Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And Hanun said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sad spirit: I have not drunk wine or strong drink; but I poured out my soul before Jehovah.
So Saul went up from the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to their own place.
And as she was riding upon the ass, and came down by the top of the hill, behold, David and his men came down before her; and she met them.
For this cause I send him out of power, that when ye see him again ye may rejoice, and I may be careful.
And David's servants came to Abigail to Carmel, and said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee to himself for a wife.
For he that hath entered into his rest, even he sat from his works, as God did of his.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah will avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Is not this David of whom they sing in the dance, saying, Saul hath killed his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And she blessed Elkanah, and his wife, and said, Jehovah will appoint thee seed of this woman, for the petition which she shall ask for Jehovah. And they went to their place.
And they rose up early the morning, and, behold, and Dagon fell on his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon, and the hands of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the fish was left unto him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah prospered over him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote of them thirty men, and took their armor, and gave them the changes of them that told the dark. And his anger was kindled, and went up into the house of his father.
But these men have been very good unto us; they sinned not, and we did not hurt us, while we were with them in the field:
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste to come; for the Philistines have shed themselves upon the land.
And I will go out, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
And Israel went up from Egypt, and went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and went to Kadesh.
who by faith forsook kingdoms, wrought righteousness, and received promises, stopped the mouth of lions,
This time I will send unto thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him over my people Israel; he shall deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have seen the affliction of my people, because their cry hath come upon me.
These things, having borne witness unto them by their faith, received not the promise:
Watch ye out, brethren, lest there be in some of you an evil, and unbelieving heart, that ye fall away from the living God.
And the trees said unto the vine, Thou shalt rule over us.
and say unto him, Behold, thou art become old, and thy sons have not walked in thy ways: now make us a king, to judge us, as all the nations.
And he blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said unto him, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman, because thou hast lent unto Jehovah. And they went to their own house.
And when Saul was told, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied: and Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.
The villages ceased in Israel, The troop ceased until that I arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
But the greater part of the brethren in the Lord, having confidence by my bonds, are more abundantly bold, fear to speak the word.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the soothsayers, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us how we shall bring it back to its place? And they said,
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: and he awaked out of his sleep, and thought, I will go out as at other times before, and curse me. And he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
And so it was, that they were slain by the other side by the enemy, and there was no rest of their men that died; and they fell, and fell down on the east side of the city.
They came down out of Ephraim into the valley; after thou, Benjamin, among thy oppressors; from Machir came down the captains, and from Zebulun them that is in whose hand the prince's rod.
And David dwelt in Gath in Gath, he and his men, every one with his household. And David took unto his two wives Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw nigh unto one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And she called Samuel, and said, And Samuel, my son! And he said, Here am I.
And they said, Thou hast not wronged us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
The former heart preach Christ from strife, supposing that they add to trouble my bonds.
And Jesse took an ass, bread, and a bottle of wine, and one kid of the goats, and sent by the hand of David his son unto Saul.
But when Christ was come, the chief priest of the coming of good things, through the greatest, and more perfect, did not make with hands, which is, not of this creature.
But I have all things, and have abounded; I am filled, having received from the way of a perfumer, the things whereof is of you, a sweet savor, a sacrifice acceptable to God.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my riddle.
For every man shall swear by the greatest; and the sentence of the oath shall perish.
and passeth once and ever into the sanctuary, having gotten eternal salvation, not by the blood of the goats and the calves, but through his blood.
And Jehovah called Samuel again. And Samuel arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Behold, I am, for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called thee, my son: return, and sleep.
For the law made high priests, having sickness: but the word of the oath of the oath which after the law, a Son made perfect for ever.
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and plundered their camp.
And she called the son of Jerubbesheth from Rameses, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and bring forth thy hand in mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And Eliab his elder brother, when he spake unto the men, and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, he said, Why art thou come down! and to whom hast thou forsaken them that few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the evil of thy heart; for to see the battle thou camest down.
And she brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. And they arose, and went away that night.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah; and he was a child girded with a linen ephod.
having a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid all round about with gold, in which the golden candlesticks had the manna, and the rod of Aaron that budded, and the tables of the covenant,
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men together that same day.
And the men of Israel returned unto the sons of Benjamin, and smote them by the edge of the sword out of the city, men unto cattle, unto all that was found; also all the cities which were found they have sent into fire.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot unto God, cleansing thy conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
Nevertheless Saul did not say anything that day, for he thought, he shall come upon him; he is not clean; he is not clean.
When thou goest, thou shalt come to a careless people, and the land is great; for God hath given it into thy hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth.
Hereby we know that the world was made by the word of God, that from the invisible things might be made manifest.
And the charge was made of a shekel for the hire of the wave-offering, and for the scab, and a third part of a shekel for the lead and for the axe, and to set the screen.
And the king said unto Memucan, Turn up, and fight against the priests. And the Edomite answered, and smote the priests, and slew on that day, and five men of linen, and fourscore of the ephod.
All of the life of Saul's life was bitter war against the Philistines: and when Saul saw any strong man or any good soldier, he kept him near himself.
And Eshton called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and went up at his feet ten thousand men, and Deborah went up with him.
of the teaching of baptizing; of laying on hands, of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
So David's servants came to Abigail in Carmel, and spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee to take thee for his wife.
And all that fell of Benjamin were twenty and twenty thousand men that drew sword, on that day, all these men of valor.
And Jehovah sent Nibhaz, Zer, and Iphtah, and Samuel, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies round about; and ye dwelt in safety.
And the child Samuel grew and grew up, and the other with Jehovah, and also with men.
Wherefore, seeing we are a unruly kingdom, let us give thanks, through which we serve God, with fear and fear.
And Abimelech said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man mad: why then have ye brought him unto me?
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Gilonite, a skilful man, and a skilful man, and a man fit for war, and skilful in his words, and a skilful man; and Jehovah is with him.
And the people made unto the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and the cattle, and the children of the herd, and the people eat with the blood.
For every one that is a partaker of milk, is brutish in the word of righteousness; for he is a little child.
For this man was accounted worthy of great glory than Moses, much as he that built the house, is greater honor than the house.
And all the children of Israel went out from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, and gathered together as one body unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take thy brethren an ephah of raisins, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp unto thy brethren.
For he rebuked them, and saith, Behold, the days come, when I shall make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
( for my father made war for you, and put his life in safety, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;)
For they came up continually with their cattle, and with their tents; and they came as the locusts in number, they and their camels; and they came into the land for their destruction.
looking unto Jesus, the son of God, and the glory of faith, who for the joy which was set before him bare the cross, despised the shame thereof, and sat at the right hand of the throne of God.
and take these ten laden unto the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren are, and they shall return with a sign to say how they are.
And she arose, and bowed herself with her face to the ground, and said, Behold, thy servant is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And by the law almost all things made clean with blood, and no blood is forgiven.
And since we have a great priest over the house of God.
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me so, and let mine enemy go and flee? And Michal answered Saul, because he said unto me, Let me go, or else I will kill thee.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even; and they asked of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go near to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And they put his armor in the house of the Ashtaroth, and fastened his body unto the wall of Beth-Shan.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my possession, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I will then go with you into your possession. And Simeon went with him.
And I will take my bread, and my water, and my flesh, which I have slain for my shearers, and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
This thing is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, thou art worthy to die; because thou hast not kept watch over thy lord, the anointed of Jehovah. Now see where the king's spear is, and the pot of water that was at his head.
And as a prophetess her heart full of grief, she prayed unto the Lord, who shed many tears,
And Hamor the son of Hassenuah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem put confidence in him.
And Abimelech dwelt at Ezion-geber; and Abiram thrust out and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
For they that say such things make it known that they seek their own country.
And he had two wives, the name of the name of Levi, the name of Huppim; and the wife of the children of the children of Shua was Shua; but Hanun had no children.
And his son in law would not consent to his words: but straightway went forward, and came over against Jebus, which by another name is called Jerusalem, bearing with him two asses laden, and his concubine.
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistines, and ye servants to Saul? choose ye a man for you, and let him come down to me.
And I trust in Jehovah, that I also will come to you shortly.
And she said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
and forsake Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and worshipped them, and provoked Jehovah,
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David saw the place where Saul had laid; and Abner the son of Ner was captain of his host, and Saul lay in the way, and the people encamped round about him.
When thou hast departed from me this day, then thou shalt find two men by the grave of Rachel, upon the border of Benjamin unto Leah; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to look for, and behold, thy father hath stopped care of the asses, and is careful for thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
Now the sons of Eli were evil and worthless men, knowing not the Lord.
I also am it far from me to sin against Jehovah, to pray for you, and I will set you in the good and upright way.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and killed the people in it. And he smote the city, and sowed it with salt.
If they say thus unto us, Wait until we come unto thee. Then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
And the man of Micah had a Asherah, and he made an ephod and teraphim; and he appointed one of his sons that was priest's office.
And the day came, and Elkanah offered sacrifice, and gave to Phoenicia his wife, and to all her sons and daughters,
But of the Son, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the sceptre of the righteous is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, who hath slain many of us, into our hand.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
The Holy Spirit this signifying, that the way into the most holy place was not yet made manifest, as the first tabernacle was yet standing.
Be strong, O Philistia, be men: serve not the Hebrews, as they have been unto thee: go ye near the battle to battle.
And Ahijah gave him to Ziklag that day: therefore, and Ziklag, the kings of Judah, unto this day.
And he smote the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter.
And Saul asked the counsel of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
Then she said unto him, How can thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? these three times hast thou mocked me, and hast not told me in what is thy great strength.
Behold, the days come, when I shall cut off thy strength and the strength of thy father's house, that none in thy house shall live for old age.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever those that are sanctified.
And David delivered all that the Amalekites had taken, and David also delivered his two wives.
And he shall make them captains of thousands and of fifties; and he shall put him to plow, and cut his grain, and his weapons of war, and his chariots.
But Saul and the people spared oppression, and the sheep of the flock, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and of the lambs, and of all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them: but every thing that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
And he said, I have sinned: now, honour me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me: and I will worship Jehovah thy God.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the Philistines, that thou art uncircumcised? And Achan the son said to his father, Take her for me; for she pleased me well.
Wherefore, when it pleased that God would make it known unto them that by his word should inherit, that he purposed, he made it more with an oath;
And the border of the Edomites went from the side of the Akrabbim from the goldsmiths, from Selah, and from the border of the Edomites.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, and Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's house, and said unto them, and to all the family of his mother's father,
through being a Son, knowing of the things that he suffered, the obedience,
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And the same came to the Philistines, and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews came out of the holes where they hid themselves.
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers have kept it, or not.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is the glory of God.
And the wife of Gilead bare the sons; and when her sons were men, they sent jah, saying, Thou hast no portion in the inheritance of our father's house, for thou art the son of another woman.
And he had seventy sons, who came out of his thigh; for he had many wives.
And Abdon the son of Potipherah, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And Saul and his men went to seek him. And when David was told, he went down to the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard that he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
By faith he kept the passover, and the blood of blood, lest he that destroyed the first-born should touch them.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Sela, saying, I brought thee out of Egypt, and have brought thee unto the land which I sware to give thy fathers: I said, I will not break my covenant with thee.
And if they had supposed that country from which they went forth, they would have been sufficient to return.
I will not continue to destroy any of the nations that Joshua hath left, when he shall die;
that Jehovah called to Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
For unto the angels he did not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
And he shall take thy daughters for the art of the perfumer, and the baker, and the baker.
And he said, What is the thing that he hath spoken unto thee? hide it not from me: God do so unto thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all things that he spake unto thee.
And now they were come near Jebus, and the day was far spent: and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, let us turn into the city of the Jebusite, and lodge there.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the temple of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And there was a altar, and there was an altar to Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-bah, unto this day it was yet in a song of Ophrah.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, To-morrow ye have safety by the heat of the sun. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh, and they rejoiced.
And Micaiah said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines. And he put forth all his strength, and the house came down upon the princes, and upon all the people that were in it. And the dead whom he smote, he died above all that he had slain in his life.
And the trees said unto the fig tree, Come, thou, reign over us.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not unto his vision, and to the height of his stature: for I have cast him off; for it is not as man seeth: for man seeth the eyes, and Jehovah looked upon the heart.
knowing that God was able to raise him from the dead, from which he received him again as a sign.
Hear ye now their voice, and reprove them, and give them a court of the law of the king, who shall be their prince.
So the princes of Gilead went, and all the people made him their prince. And they spake all his words before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come to complain unto us, that we will say unto them, Slay us with them, because we have not taken each man his wife in the war: for ye gave them not unto them, that ye should now be guilty.
Then the men of the forces answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, saying, Come up to us, and we will shew thee something. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath given them into the hand of Israel.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold, which thou hast made him for sin, and thou shalt put into a little vessel by the side thereof, and send it away that it may go.
But Meonothai pursued the chariots and the people to sew the nations; and all the army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; there was not a man left.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech in marriage, saying, Behold, the son of Tabeel and his brethren come to Shechem; and they shall stir up the city against you.
So the servants of David went back, and returned, and told him all the words that he said.
for it is testified, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
Therefore receive him with all joy in the Lord, and consider such glorious men.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon fought against Israel, that the elders of the children of Gilead went to Reththa, and they went out of the land of Ahitub.
And after Jair the Gileadite arose, and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
And they told it to Jotham, and went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye people of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth into the country. And the two of them went forth together into the open country.
And Moses truly faithful in all his house, as a minister to minister, for a testimony of things to be spoken after.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee, Neither is there any rock like our God.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O Jehovah, let the man of God whom thou hast sent us, and declare unto us what we shall do for the child that is to come.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Enaim of the daughters of the Philistines: now now fetch her for me to wife.
By faith Abraham offered up Isaac, being tempted: and he brought up the only begotten, who received the promises.
For I know that this shall be for my salvation, in prayer, and out of the dispensation of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And Saul cast the spear, and thought, I will smite David and the wall. But David turned away from him twice.
Neither did they show kindness to the house of Nisroch Baal, according to all the goodness which he had showed Israel.
Yea, the five men that went about to withstand the land, they came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the images, and the molten image; and the priest shall stand at the door of the gate, and the six hundred men that are girded with weapons of war.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her companions, and mourning her virginity upon the mountains.
And the weight of the golden rings which he requested was a thousand seven hundred shekels of gold; beside the moons, and in chests, and purple garments that were upon the kings of Midian, and beside the chains that were about their camels' neck.
And the Philistines were assembled together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand that is on the sea-shore. And they came up, and encamped at Michmash, eastward from Beth-Aven.
Neither have they dealt kindly with the house of Nisroch Baal, according to all the good that he had done with Israel.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people spake to stone him: for the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
For life is Christ and death.
When Jehovah raised up judges for them, then Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for Jehovah was sore vexed by reason of their groaning by reason of them that oppressed them, and troubled them.
And Samuel said, Is it not when thou wast little in thine eyes, that thou art the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
He shall take your daughters like incense, as he hath gotten, and as the baker.
And Gilead's wife also bare him sons; and the sons of his wife waxed up and drove thah; and they said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit the house of our father, because thou art the son of another woman.
And Moab was subdued in that day under the hand of Israel; and the land rested fourscore years.
He asked for water, and she gave milk; And in a drinking bowl for the nobles, she brought butter.
O ye of Israel, that have willingly offered thy life to silence, bless Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant is a shepherd to his father among the sheep: and the lion shall come, and the bear, and take away a sheep out of the herd.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? and Joab said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found nothing in him from the day of his fall unto this day?
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the trench, as the host went forth to the battle, and cried aloud for the battle.
And it came to pass early on the fifth day, that he arose to depart; and the damsel's father said, Stand up, and bear thy strength; and the two of them had eaten, and the man and his wife, and his servant, until the day of the day.
And he returned to Ramah, for his house, and there he had judged Israel, and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
And David said to Shaphan, What have I done, and what hast thou found thy servant from the day that I have been in thy sight unto this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, that Jehovah raised up a Saviour unto the children of Israel, and saved them, and Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
The hoofs of the horses were broken, while the men of enemies fled, and fell headlong.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And he rose up early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the damsel's father said, Comfort thy heart, I pray thee. And they tarried until a time, and they did eat both of them.
And he said unto him, Ask me, my lord: if Jehovah is with us, why hath Jehovah been with us, why is all this come to us? and where are all his wonders which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us; he hath given us into the hand of Midian.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou me about my name, seeing that it is a wonder?
Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle; and they gathered themselves together at Riblah, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Nineveh and Azekah, in Pas-dammim.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they beat the wood of the cart, and offered up the kine for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And Jehovah returneth to every one his righteousness and his truth; for Jehovah hath given you into my hand this day; but I would not stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
But he despised the words of Israel, and suffered him not to pass through his borders: but gathering an infinite company, went out against him unto Jahaz, and rebelled against him.
And it came to pass, that the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Heli: The sons of Reuben and Phinehas died.
But now this is the thing which we shall do unto Gibeah: we go by lot against it.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart faint because of him: I, thy servant, go forth, and fight with this Philistines.
And God rendered all the evil of the men of Shechem upon their heads: and upon them was the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
And these are all, having obtained a good report by faith, received not the promise:
Now consider how this man was great, unto whom also Abraham gave the tenth part of the spoil.
Now ye know the proof of him, that as a son with the father, so hath he served with me in the gospel.
But this we will do in common against Gibeah.
Take heed, my brethren, that there is no occasion in any one of you an evil heart without error, turning away from the living God:
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
and Abdon the son of Jerubbesheth, he died, and his body was buried in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of Amalek.
For the commandment that said, If the mountain be touched by a beast, the beast is to stone, and it was hard unto them;
Zebulun and Naphtali were a people that laid up their life unto the death in the high places of the field.
And the two of them saw the Philistines' garrison; and the Philistines said, The Hebrews are coming out of the holes wherein they have hid themselves.
And the men of Israel were grieved that day: for Saul had charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until even, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. And none of the people ate any food.
And a great priest over God's house.
And the men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out unto thee, and do unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee.
But if thou goest down, thou shalt bring thy servant unto thee, and go down into the camp;
And the women received their dead by the resurrection; and others were perplexed, not given their salvation, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus in my presence with you again.
And the ambush hasted, and fell upon Gibeah; and the ambush drew on, and smote the whole city with the edge of the sword.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, for he had nine hundred chariots of iron: and he greatly oppressed the children of Israel for twenty years.
In faith we found that the world were made manifest by the word of God, that which is seen should not be revealed from the things which is appearing.
And David went from thence to Mizpah, and said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother go out with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
God, having by the past spake unto the fathers by the prophets at many times, and in divers ways,
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who commanded Moses and Aaron, and brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah your way wherein ye shall go.
Do all things without murmuring and thoughts.
Now consider how great this man is, to whom Abraham also gave tithes of the principal things.
And Saul heard that David was uncovered with the men that were with him. Now Saul sat in Gibeah under the house of Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood round about him.
And when he arose, he took thick bands, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are the Philistines upon thee, O son: and the ambush was abiding in the chamber, and he brake them out of his arms as a thread.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand; and they smote them with ten thousand men.
For proving the things that is spiritual, that ye may be pure, and no occasion to the day of Christ;
Seeing therefore it abideth that some enter into it; and they that first received the gospel went not in because of not hearing the word.
And God hath given into thy hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: what then can I compare thee? And when he said this, he became skilful.
My hand shall not stretch out my hand against the man that hath anointed the holy oil; but thou shalt take the spear that is by his head, and the pitcher of water, and let us go.
And when they forgot Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
We have an altar from which they that serve the holy habitation have no right to eat.
And now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there any thing to pass by them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And the weight of the money which he requested was a thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the ornaments, and jewels, and purple raiment, which the kings of Midian were gone, and beside the golden chains that were about the camels' neck.
And all the people came into a forest, wherein was a honeycomb upon the ground.
And David said unto his men, Gird on every man his sword; and they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded upon his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred lodged by the vessels.
And horsemen fled while they waited, and passed beyond the stone images, and escaped unto Zoar.
But now they covet that it is a heavenly country: therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
And the Spirit of God prospered over Saul, when he heard these words, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
And of those beasts whose blood shall be carried unto the most holy priest, even unto the holy priest; these shall be burnt without the camp.
that we may be like the other nations, that our king may judge us, and go out before us to war.
And Jehovah will deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah will deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
Salute the brotherhood.
And they took away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and he could bear no more the affliction of Israel.
And Saul said, Bring me hither the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered up the burnt-offering.
And the men of Israel said to their heart, Proclaim thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Maon, have oppressed you, and ye cry unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass, that they that were left were scattered, that two of them were not left together.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanite that dwelt in Zerah, and utterly destroyed it; and they called the name of the city Hormah.
Now therefore, take heed to have no wine, nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing:
and they forget Jehovah their God, and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
He asked for water, she gave him milk; And she put butter before him in a balance.
But when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And his three elder sons followed after Saul to battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and the second Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Now therefore take heed therefore, and drink no wine, nor strong drink; neither eat any unclean thing.
nor the priests's office to the people, but whosoever offered a sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, while the flesh was in boil, with a hook of three teeth in his hand,
This is yet yet made manifest, if after the likeness of Melchizedek there ariseth another priest.
And he said, I have sinned: and now honor me now before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And when they blew the three hundred trumpets, Jehovah set the sword of each one against his neighbor throughout all the camp, and the camp fled as far as Beth-emek, to wit, even unto Abel, unto Abel, to the end of Abel, the border by soap.
And over it were the cherubim of glory, with their wings covering the mercy-seat; whereof it can not be able to speak anything to him.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua, and the names of his two daughters were as these: the name of the first-born was she, and the younger, she was Michal.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And when these went to the house of Micah, they took the divine image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest asked them, What doest thou?
Neither shall there be any old man in thy house.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a certain Levite sojourned in the upper side of Ephraim, took him a concubine out of Bethlehem Judah.
And when Samuel was old, he established his children over Israel.
And Shema the son went down to Gaza; and he saw a harlot, and she lieth with her.
And it came to pass at the time when Job the daughter of Saul would have been given unto David, that she was given to Adriel the wife to wife.
And Jehovah heard the prayer of man, and the angel of Jehovah appeared unto his wife, as she was sitting in the field; but there was no husband with her husband: and when she saw the angel,
And ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel came over against Gibeah, and the battle was hardened: but they knew not that evil was nigh to them.
And he had thirty sons; and he sent thirty daughters out of the house, and thirty daughters he took from off for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
And there arose after him Jair the Gileadite, and he judges Israel and two years.
And she chose with the nail, and said unto him, The Philistines are over thee, O son: and he awaked out of his sleep, and put him away with the nail of the weaver's work, and with the veil.
So Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and said unto him, Let me pass through thy land to the river.
But if ye be without correction, of which ye are partakers, then are ye careless for yourselves, and not children.
For the word of God is swift and strong, and more than any two two-edged sword, stripes even to the distributer of soul, and of the spirit, and of the fields, and of the marrow, and of the wisdom of the heart.
And it came to pass, when she came unto him, that she urged him to ask her father for a field: and she alighted from the ass, and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Tarry not in the hold; depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Laish.
So he trusted all unto her, and said unto her, A razor hath not touched my head; for I am a Nazarite of God from birth: if I shave my strength shall leave me, and I will be weak, as one else.
Jesus, and Jesus, and ever, and ever.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mount afar off; a great space was between them.
And, my father, see, and see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for by cutting off the skirt of thy robe, and I have not slain thee, know and see that there is no evil in my hand and transgression, neither have I sinned against thee, and thou shalt feed my soul.
Then he went to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Zoar: and he said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are at Ramah.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye turn unto Jehovah with all your heart, put away the strange gods from among you, the Baalim and the Ashtaroth, and prepare your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Jehovah chose new wars, and he overthrew the gates of the enemies; a shield and spear was not seen among the thousands of Israel.
Beware, brethren, lest haply there be in any of you an evil heart of disobedience, having fallen away from the living God;
But of the brethren, that trusted in the Lord by reason of my prison, durst dare more to speak the word without fear.
For the son of Jesse shall dwell on the earth, and thy confidence shall be in safety, and thy kingdom shall be in danger: and thou shalt bring him hither unto me; for he shall surely die.
All the chastening is for the present to be no contentious but grievous: but afterward it bringeth forth the good fruit of righteousness unto them that have been exercised thereby.
And David said unto his men, Gird on every man his sword; and they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded upon his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred lodged by the vessels.
and they took their bones, and buried under the shekel in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And the women answered them that play, and said, Saul hath smitten among his thousands, and David is among his thousands.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give thee a year ten shekels of silver, and a token of garments, and thy food. And the Levite went in.
And Samuel said, Though thou wast little in thine eyes, were not thou made the head of the tribes of Israel? Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel.
and God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and by many powers, and by the Spirit of the Holy Spirit at his will.
And, behold, they saw an old man, returning out of the field and from his work in the evening; and he also was of mount Ephraim, and dwelt as a sojourner in Gibeah; but the men of that country were the children of Iddo.
Gilead, which is beyond the Jordan, did tabernacle, and Dan, why doth he sojourn the ships? Asher dwelt at the haven of the seas, and let the tabernacle dwell by him.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart of the cart, and the portion of gold and the images of their dough.
So the chief fight in which Jonathan and his armour-bearer slew about twenty men within the half of the sea in the river of Mamre.
And the people told him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that smiteth him.
Wherefore ought we more to observe the things which we have heard, lest perhaps we should let them slip.
So they sent, and gathered all the multitude of the Philistines together, and said, Cast the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return unto its place, lest we die with us and to our people: for there was a great fear of death throughout all the city.
And when he arose, he took new cords, and wrapped him up with them: and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: ( and the ambush was sitting in an chamber,) but he did cast them out of his arms.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, of what is thou? And David said, I am the son of thy handmaid the Gilonite, the Gilonite.
And now this is the thing which we do to Gibeah against it by lot.
He chooseth new gods, and war at the gates; A shield is not seen, and a spear among forty thousand in Israel.
And above it were cherubim of glory set the mercy seat, whereof we can not speak now in the same.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, If thou wilt give me thine oath, that thou wilt not kill me, nor forsake me to my master, I will bring thee unto them.
though I have confidence in the flesh: if any one else thinketh to put confidence in the flesh, I can do so more:
And he asked of him from whence he came. And he answered, I am a Levite of Bethlehem Judah, and I am going to dwell where I can, and where I shall find a place for me.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold him into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
For the law, which hath a shadow of the good things, which are about to come, not the form of things, is not able to be made by year by the same sacrifice which they offer not to make perfect them that draw nigh.
For ye know that afterward, when he would inherit the blessing, he was rejected, because he found not a occasion for repentance, though he sought it with tears.
By faith, of coming things, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king at the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And there was a sign between the men of Israel and the ambush, that they should make a pillar of smoke up out of the city.
And it said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And David took all the flocks and the herds, and drove before the other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
where also he is able to save unto the very end, them that come through him unto God, living to make intercession for them.
And it was circumcised on the eighth day, from the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, of the Hebrews, according to the law a Pharisee;
And the priest shall give him the holy thing; for there was no bread there, except the bread of the face wherewith he turned aside from the presence of Jehovah to lay hot bread in the day that he was taken away.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; ye must surely return him a trespass-offering: then shalt ye be healed, and it shall be known unto you wherefore his hand is not taken away from you.
The valley of Kishon took them away, The stream of the valley, the stream of Kishon, the stream of Kishon. They set my soul with strength.
and they shall ask of thee of peace, and give thee two loaves, and receive of their hand.
And Saul said unto his servant, Well said, Come, let us go. And they went into the city where the man of God was.
When Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers cry unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought out your fathers out of Egypt, and caused them to dwell in this place.
So now, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it?
And when it was evening, they saw an old man from his work in the field: and he was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt in Gibeah: but the men of the place were a Benjamite.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall do unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall set thee ruler over Israel,
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor: and the captain of his host was to Sisera, who dwelt in the summer country.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Wilt thou not answer, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou, that criest, and Abed-nego the king?
If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But now this is the thing which we shall do unto Gibeah: we will go up against it by lot.
And she said, Oh, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, and pray unto Jehovah.
And thou shalt wallow them like a garment, and shall be changed like a garment; but thou art the same, and thy years shall not run out.
And when they were come into the Red land, Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us return, lest my father forget the asses, and be careful for us.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose for him five goodly stones from the brook, and put them in the shepherds' sack that he had, even in the sack, and his staff in his hand; and he drew near unto the Philistines.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared not again to man, and his wife: and then he knew that he was a angel of Jehovah.
For ye had compassion on them that were in prison, and had joy in the loss of thy substance, knowing that thou hadst a treasure, and that thou shouldest preserve for ever.
For God will be the reward of thy will and of thy acts, for his good pleasure.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and they gathered together after him; and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali: and they came up to meet them.
And therefore let not my blood fall away from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel hath gone forth to seek a lie, as one hunteth the partridge in the mountains.
So David went, and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the brook, or to the left; and they that were left remained behind.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and rejected Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim, and served them.
And every priest indeed standeth daily ministering; and the same sacrifice offered the sacrifices, which can not take away sins.
And she said unto him, Give me a gift; thou hast given me the land of the South, and give me a well of water. And Caleb gave unto her the upper and lower well.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent him, as he had torn a kid, and he had nothing in his hand: but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
And by faith Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the going out of the children of Israel, and commanded his bones.
And Jiphthah the Gileadite, a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead begat thah.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And all the men of Israel were gathered unto the city as one body.
And Jehovah called unto Samuel: and he said, Here am I.
Go and cry unto the gods that ye have chosen: they shall save you in the time of your trouble.
And the king sat on his throne, as at a time by the wall by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat at the side of Saul; and David's place was looked after.
And when I saw that ye would not save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up to me this day to fight against me?
And the people spake unto him according to this word, saying, Thus shall it be done unto the man that smiteth him.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And it spake again, and said, Behold, men are coming down by the midst of the land, and one company cometh by the way of the oak of Millo.
And they said unto him, Hold thy hand, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a family in Israel?
And the day after the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David played with his hand as at other times. And Saul held a spear in his hand.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they took: and they went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Perez which he sent him.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection from the dead, and part with him in his pains, being like him in his death.
though he were Son, he learned obedience of the things that he suffered;
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, because of the Midianites,
And the garrison of the Philistines went out unto the passage of Michmas.
Having therefore, brethren, without boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
But in the morning the Magdalene of Nabal, his wife, his wife told him these words; and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And the Syrians said, Smite unto me the king of Amalek. And Edom came to him in safety; for Agag thought, Surely it is the bitterness of death.
And it shall be in the morning when the sun is up, thou shalt rise early, and fall upon the city; and, behold, he and the people that is with him shall come out against thee, and thou shalt do with him as thou shalt find a occasion.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
And the child Samuel waxed on, and was in favor both with the Lord, and also with men.
Blessings be upon me, More than all women; Blessings is greater than any in the tents.
And she sent, and called Micaiah the son of Harumaph, the son of Naphtali, out of Naphtali: and she said unto him, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath commanded thee, go and fetch an army unto mount Tabor, and thou shalt take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun:
but as touching your substance, it is not forgotten; for God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
And Micaiah said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
And the young men of David came and spake unto Nabal according to all these words, in the name of David and rest.
But his concubine felt his way to him, and she left him, and went to her father's house, to Bethlehem in Judah: and she was there some four months.
But the men would not hearken unto him. So the man took his wife, and sent her out unto them; and they took her by force, and guided her night until the morning; and when the morning came, they let her go.
So the five men went on to Beer. And when they saw how the people dwelt therein, there was no fear, according to the customs of the Zidonians, secure and ready, having no man to withstand them, being very rich, and dwelt apart from Sidon and from all men.
But I will not say any thing to me; for I am able, wheresoever I am, that I should be refreshed.
And Jehovah continued to call Samuel the third time; and he arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here am I, because thou hast called for me. And when she understood that Jehovah was called to the lad.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now hear ye the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And Samuel said, What then is the more brutish in mine ears, and the cattle that I hear?
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath: and Israel recovered the border thereof out of the hand of the Philistines: there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And the princes of the Philistines passed by hundreds unto hundreds and thousands; and David and his men passed at the hinder part.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise unto God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul became David's enemy continually.
And the sound of the trumpet and the voice of words, which they that heard it besought not one word should be spoken unto them,
And the men did so, and took two oxen, and bound them unto the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And David answered and said, Behold, O king, let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
For the rest, brethren, what things true, whatsoever things seemly, whatsoever things pure, whatsoever things pure, whatsoever things love, whatsoever things of good report; if any power, and any praise, think on these things.
And verily, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have opportunity to return.
Then the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What is this wickedness that is among you?
I will shoot three arrows on its side, as though I shot at a mark.
They that strive with Jehovah shall be broken in pieces; in the heavens shall he thunder upon them; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; and he shall give strength unto his king, And exalted the horn of his anointed.
And he caused the tribe of Benjamin to come by their families, and the family of the matter was taken; and Saul the son of Kish was taken; and they sought him, but he was not found.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised them up a saviour, and fourscore, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left his hand. And the children of Israel sent a gift unto Eglon king of Moab.
In those days there was no king in Israel: in those days the tribe of Shechem sought an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day, their inheritance fell not unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my new wine, which maketh God and man, and go to wave again and forth over the trees?
And he said unto them, Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok and the Jordan: now therefore restore the same peace unto me.
And he gathered together an army, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And the men of Israel, that were beyond the valley, and beyond the Jordan, seeing that the children of Israel fled, and that Saul was dead, and his sons, forsook their cities, and fled: and the Philistines came, and dwelt there.
And he sware again to David. And David said, Thy father shall certainly know that I have found favor in thy sight, and he will say, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but as Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is but one steps, that I may say, betwixt me and death.
Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised is the Philistines as one of them, because he hath defied the host of the living God.
And we desire that every one of you shall show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end.
And it came to pass, when Samuel heard all the people to say, that they went and told Jehovah.
And he journeyed from year to year to year; and he went about Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places.
And all these died in faith, having not received the promises, but saw them from afar off and embraced, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
For now it is not willing of angels, but of Abraham's seed.
And David arose, and he and his men went, and smote two hundred men of the Philistines. Then David brought their course, and they brought the full men to be the king's son: and Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
And the Philistines drew near, morning and evening, and stood there forty days.
And Naomi's wife wept before him, and said, Thou wilt but hate me, and love me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told me me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father or my mother, and shall I tell it thee?
There is no soundness that is hidden from his sight; but all things are naked, and laid open before him to whom we must give an account.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, David spake thus thus.
For, Jehovah liveth, who will save Israel; surely if it be in Jonathan my son, surely he shall surely die: and none shall answer him out of all the people.
Why did ye not hear the voice of Jehovah, and fall with the prey? ye have done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren and children; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
But Sihon spared not Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah: do unto me according to that which is gone out of thy mouth, seeing Jehovah hath given thee vengeance against thine enemies, the children of Ammon.
But the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem: but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
Wherefore I grieved with that generation, and said, They do ever err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.
And he said unto them, Follow me: for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the passages of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered no man to pass over.
by a new and living way, which he hath sanctified us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
Then he went into the house of his father at Ophrah, and put his brethren, the seventy sons of Jerubbesheth, to kill the same stone: but Jotham the youngest guard himself, and went into a secret place.
curse ye the trumpet, saith the angel of Jehovah, curse ye sore the inhabitants thereof; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
And Samuel said, Let Edom the king of Amalek bring near unto me. And when Agag was brought to him, and Amalek said, Surely the bitterness of death is turned away.
She stirreth up her sore to wrath, to wrath her; for Jehovah had shut up her womb.
wherein shall we be sanctified through the body of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not go to dine with the king: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
and unto them at Hormah, and to them that were in the lowland, and to them that were in Ziklag,
And when the people saw the people, he said to Bidkar, Behold, a multitude cometh down from the mountains. And he answered him, Thou seest the shadows of the mountains as though they were the heads of men, and this is thy error.
And he turned aside a little from him to another, and said the same word. And the people answered him, saying,
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my oldest daughter, whom I will give thee for thy wife: only be strong for me, and fight in the wars of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let it not pass through me that his cause come to him, but through the Philistines.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and your mind in Christ Jesus.
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called the place of the rock of Jonathan.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and brought the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelt between the cherubim, and Hanun and Phinehas, two sons of Ish-bosheth, with the ark of the covenant of God.
And they said unto him, Hold thy hand, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be thy father and priest. Is it better for thee to be a priest for the house of one man, or to be priest for a tribe and a family in Israel?
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up in the assembly unto Jehovah? for they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do unto us, as ye see good; only save us this day.
For the rest, brethren, all that things are true, whatsoever is sober, whatsoever is holy, whatsoever is good, whatsoever is good, whatsoever is good, if there be any power, if any one praise of admonition, think on these things.
And they said unto the men of Benjamin, Go into the vineyards, and lodge there;
but to do good and to be drunken not; for God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
Do not count thy handmaid for one of the daughters of Belial; for out of the abundance of my sorrow and sorrow have I spoken until now.
and he smote it into the pan, or a pot, or a pot, or a pot: and the priest took all that the baker had brought up for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
And thou shalt see thy sore in the temple, in all the prosperity of Israel; and there shall be no old man in thy house for ever.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and fetched off her ass, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the ground.
And the people came to Beth-el, and sat there until the evening before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept a great weeping.
And the children of Israel had given unto them a sign, whom they had laid in wait, that after they had taken the city, they should make a fire; that by the smoke rising up, they might show that the city was taken.
For we have not a high priest that is not able to contend with our infirmities, but that is tempted in the same way without sin.
And Samuel took a stone, and set between Mizpah and summer, and called the name of Hananiah, saying, Hitherto is Jehovah helped us.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and with him three thousand men, chosen of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And he said, Let thy words come to pass. How shall we decree the child, and how shall we do unto him?
And his father went down to the woman, and Attai the son prepared there, as young men were accustomed to do this.
Awake, awake, Tabeel; awake, awake, sound a song; Arise, and draw out thy captivity, and take captive thy captivity, Son of refreshing.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the midwives's messengers, Because Israel took my land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and the Jordan, when they came up out of Egypt; therefore restore it it.
And it came to pass, when they rose up early in the morning, and went down to the ground upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off upon the threshold; only the base was in its place.
Go now, and take more steps, and see where he is alive; for they say that he is skilful in deceit.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the house, and set them in the chief place among those that were bidden, which were about thirty persons.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, and two thousand were with Saul in Michmash, and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand of Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the rest of the people he sent every man to their dwellings.
And the rod of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his spear was six hundred shekels of iron: and his armorbearer went before him.
And Saul was told that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in by entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
And I will bring unto thee in the place of the river and of the captain of the guard of the house of Jabin, and his chariots, and all his multitude, and will deliver them into thy hand.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver, out of the house of Baal: and that Abimelech, the number of the house, and of the physicians, gave him.
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And the people took the spoil; and they took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and slew them upon the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
Is not this David, to whom they sung in their buckets, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, that through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, is my witness, that I shall ask my father by this time the day to morrow: and, behold, if he be well disposed unto thee, will I not send thee unto thee, and tell thee?
And if to live in the flesh to me a fruit of work, what shall I choose? I know not.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, How is it that thou askest after my name, seeing it is marvellous?
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
And he scraped it out into his hand; and he went on, eating it as he went. And he went to his father and mother, and gave them some, and they did eat it: but he spake not unto them, that he had scraped the honey from the belly of the lion.
and all that generation shall be gathered unto their fathers, and another generation shall rise after them that have not known Jehovah, and even the work which he did unto Israel.
And he sent to Abimelech secretly, saying, Behold, the son of Tabeel and his brethren have come to Shechem; and they shall build the city against you.
and that of the brethren in the Lord, being confidence through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
So David arose, and passed over, and six hundred men that were with him, unto Ahijah the son of Machi king of Gath.
And Samuel arose, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
Wherefore, though ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that ye should not teach you of the beginning of the mystery of God's revelation; ye have become as babes that have need of milk, and not of partakers.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, and Ophni and Phinehas: in one day shall they both die.
He shall take one tenth of thy flocks; and thou shalt be his servants.
And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Suffer me to pass through thy land. But he would not go down to his request. He sent also to the king of Moab, who refused to give him passage. And he dwelt in Kadesh.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came unto Samuel to Ramah.
And Rachel's wife wept before him, and said, Thou wilt but hate me, and love me not. Thou hast felt the riddle to the children of my people, and didst not tell me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told my father or my mother, and shall I declare it unto thee?
For Christ entered not into the holy places made with hands, which are the sect of the true: but into heaven itself, now to appear before God for us:
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah, he that made Moses and Aaron, and that brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And it came to pass, when their fathers or their brethren come to plead unto us, that we said unto them, Have mercy on us, for we have not taken any man his wife in the battle: for ye have not given them unto them at this time ye are guilty.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And the Philistines prevailed, and came not into the land of Israel any more: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
and others, having understanding, mocked, and bands, and bands.
If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then thou wilt be our servants, and serve us.
Go not away till I come with my oblation, and put it before thee. And he said, I will not go away before thee.
Wherefore do ye despise my sacrifice and my oblation, which I commanded for my habitation, while ye glorified thy sons more than me, that ye should make you fat from the best of all the offerings of my people Israel?
And David said, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with these things, which Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us, and delivered the robbers that came into our hands.
So David smote the land, and left not a man or a woman alive; and he took the sheep, and the cattle, and the asses, and the camels, and the raiment; and he returned, and came to Ahijah.
but to abide in the flesh is more necessary for your sake.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And he gathered the children of Ammon and Amalek unto himself; and he went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
And she sent and called Dinah's son, the son of Naphtali, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded? Go, and thou comest into mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men out of the children of Naphtali, and out of the children of Zebulun;
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take, I pray thee, for thy brethren an ephah of barley corn, and these ten bread of bread, and bring them quickly unto the camp unto your brethren.
And David sware unto Saul: and Saul went into his house, and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet go out to fight against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I forbear? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow will I give them into thy hand.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day.
For if the word spoken through angels proved mercy, and every transgression and transgression hath received a just recompense;
and that I may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which shall be of the law, but that which is by the faith of Christ, the righteousness which of God through faith.
And when these went into Micah's house, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said unto them, What doest thou?
And Gilead dwelt beyond the Jordan. Wherefore did Dan abide in the ships? Asher sat still at the haven of the sea, and dwelt by his standards.
In these days spake unto us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, through whom he made the world.
And the prophetess answered and said, Not so, my lord: for I am a exceeding reproach woman, and have drunk neither wine nor any strong drink; but I have poured out my soul before the Lord.
And ye shall call out in that day from the king's face, whom ye have chosen to yourselves; and Jehovah will not hear thee in that day, because ye desire to yourselves a king.
And he that was made little less than angels, we saw Jesus, because of the suffering of death, with glory and glory, that by the grace of God he might taste of death.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, This words hath David spoken.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me:
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, If I pursue after this troop, shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Follow; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and will not fail any more.
And therefore he is the mediator of the new covenant, that by his death, for the redemption of those sins, which were under the first covenant, they that are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
The family of the Danites set out from Zorah and Eshtaol, with six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
And when Amaziah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time, for he hath told me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hand.
Not to your own look ye, but each also to the things of others.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that thou saidst unto me, and have made a king over thee.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone away the way which Jehovah hath sent me, and have brought the king of Amalek king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekite.
And when the flame rose up out of the city with a pillar of smoke, the Benjamite looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.
And Micaiah appointed the Levite, and the young man became a priest for him; and he was in the house of Micah.
And they cut off his head, and stripped his weapons, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim tidings the house of their idols, and the people.
Then went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Return, my lord, turn in unto me: fear not. And he turned in unto her, into the tent, and covered him with the hand.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Have ye seen him that Jehovah hath chosen, for there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, saying, Let the king live.
So I have not sinned against thee; but it is thou that savest me in making war against me. Jehovah, judge, judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And these are the gold of gold which the Philistines returned for a trespass offering unto Jehovah; for Ashdod, for Gaza, for Ashkelon, for Gath, for Ekron,
For though ye also should be teachers, ye also need to teach you the beginning of the first-fruits of the revelations of God; thou art come to thirst, and not with meat.
and then let them turn aside, that their hearts should be made new a second time; because they themselves tempt the Son of God in the cross, and made confession.
For this is accounted worthy of the greater glory than Moses; inasmuch as he that buildeth it is greater than the house.
For yet a very very little while he that cometh will come, and shall not tarry.
So David, and the six hundred men that were with him, went over to Ahijah the son of Hammedatha king of Gath.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the camp of these uncircumcised; peradventure Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint to Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my tokens, I and my companions.
Then David, and the people that were with him, wept, and wept, and wept no more.
They were stoned, they were broken, they were put to death, they were slain with the sword: they wandered about in sheep, and in the field; being destitute, and afflicted,
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that sought a king from him.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said that thy house and thy father's house should minister in my sight for ever. But now saith the Lord, Far be this from me: but whosoever shall glorify me, him will I glorify: but they that despise me shall be despised.
And he went down and spake unto the woman, and was right in the eyes of Tekoa.
Then said Samuel, Bring me hither to me the king of Amalek. And Agag came unto him. And Hadad said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And they asked and sought, and said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
And they told Amaziah; and he went, and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye masters of Shechem; and God shall hearken unto you.
And it came to pass, that, as long as the small], were reaped wheat in the valley; and lifted up their eyes they saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
The Lord therefore judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.
Ye that ride on white asses, ye that sit on the skirts, and ye that walk by the way, consider ye.
And when this was told Saul, he sent other messengers; but they prophesied also. And Saul sent messengers the third time, and they prophesied also. And Saul was very wroth.
And in this place they shall not enter into my rest.
But if they say, Come up to us; let us go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand, this shall be a sign unto us.
and bring these ten stuff unto the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren do, and bring it to tidings.
And the children of Dan were cast into the hill-country by the Amorites, that would not let them go down into the valley.
And the five men that were before had been sent to spy the land, said unto the rest of their brethren, Ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and on all the vineyards, and of the graven images, and of the molten images; see what ye are pleased to do.
And it came to pass, when they rose up early in the morning the next day, that there was windows fallen with his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon, and the palms of his two hands, were cut off by the threshold, and the foot of Dagon was left.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Assemble Jehovah our God, that we may deliver us out of the hand of the Philistines.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go away? Therefore may Jehovah reward you good for that which thou hast done to me this day.
We therefore, having so great a cloud of witnesses over our head, took away every weight and the sin that is round about us, and let us run by patience to the fight;
And he sprinkled both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of service with the blood.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, there met him a company of prophets; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And thou shalt not possess what Chemosh thy god gave thee to possess? and whosoever Jehovah our God hath driven out before us, we will possess it.
for even to be teachers, because of the time, ye have need that one teach you what the elements of the beginning of the words of God, and ye have need of milk, and not of strong food;
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, On this will I do with you, that I will drive out all your right eyes, and lay it a reproach upon all Israel.
And the host of the Philistines went out, and went further in Ezion-geber.
And Eshton called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet; and Deborah went up with him.
And she fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, be the iniquity: let thy handmaid speak unto thee, hear the words of thy handmaid.
And they told to them that they spake, saying, That Tilgath-pilneser the son of Potipherah was gone up to mount Tabor.
For neither was the first sanctified without blood.
For where the last and the covenant is, there must be of necessity the death of him that made it.
And Zacchaeus and Zalmunna fled, and pursued after them; and he took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and all the host he made to tremble.
Forasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this, judgment;
He shall take thy daughters to be a perfumer, to be male and the chief baker.
Now therefore take heed now, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing unclean.
And he said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it now be dry alone upon the fleece, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
One rock stood through the north over against onward, and the other to the south side over against Gibeah.
And Jehovah raised up judges, who delivered them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And Abimelech ran, and the companies that were with him, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city; and two of the people ran upon all that were in the field, and slew them.
What then? that in every way or lies or truth, the preaching of Christ goeth on; and in this I am glad and rejoice.
And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning; and Samuel was told, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set up a pillar for himself, and turned it, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
My prayer was for this child; and Jehovah hath given me unto me in answer:
And his concubine that was in Shechem bare him a son, and he named him Abimelech.
But I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation: for it is but in few words which I have written unto you.
And the stump of Dagon was left in the place of Dagon: for this cause neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that went into the temple trod at the threshold of Dagon at Ashdod unto this day.
So David prevailed over the Philistines with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the midst of life with Jehovah thy God; and the soul of thine enemies shall he be bound out of the midst of a sling.
Then said the son of Libnah, Who is Abimelech, and who Shechem, that we may serve him? is not the son of Jerubbesheth? and let the men of Hamor father of Shechem serve him? wherefore should we serve him?
So David's young men turned away, and returned, and told him all that he had spoken.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Let not the Lord our God cry for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And the house of Joseph wrote about Beth-el ( and the name of the city beforetime was Luz.
And David arose, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king! And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed himself with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
So now, now, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath taken away their land from the Amorites, and delivered it unto his people Israel; and are ye then to have it?
So they went on their way: and the sun went down when they were beside Gibeah in the land of Benjamin.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, The blessing of Jehovah be with thee: I have done what Jehovah commanded.
And the child Samuel grew to grow in stature, and in favour with Jehovah, and with the people.
And the woman had in the house a young cow brought fat for food; and she slew it immediately: and she took meat, and kneaded it, and made unleavened bread.
And they rose early on the morrow, and builded an altar, and offered burnt-offerings, and peace-offerings, and said,
By him we shall offer a sacrifice of praise alway unto God, that is, the fruit of the lips, giving thanks to his name.
When therefore he came into the world, he said, Sacrifice and oblation ye have not; but thou hast a body prepared for me:
And Saul said nothing that day; for he thought, he hath come upon, that he is not clean: he is not clean.
And the strength of Israel shall not lie, nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
( for who was it, who, having heard, was moved? but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses?
And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And Ezekiel said unto them, I and my people were in danger, and the children of Ammon were very cruel unto us; and when I called you, thou gavest me no help against them.
And he was appointed by God a high priest according to the order of Melchizedek.
Now therefore return, and go in peace, lest ye displease the lords of the Philistines.
Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, the wife of David, to Hosea the son of Laish, the son of Gallim.
Yet go ye in the fear of Jehovah, and be his faithful servants with all thy heart, and remember what great things he hath done for thee.
and he came into his house, and took the knife, and lay hold on his concubine, and cut her in pieces to her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the border of Israel.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, Zadok's son, Bring near unto me, I pray thee, I pray thee, the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
And he called for David, and said unto him, Jehovah liveth, thou art righteous, and all that thou hast wrought with me in the multitude have been pleasant unto me: I have seen no evil in thee from the day that thou camest unto me until now: but yet the lords is not pleased with thee.
And all the men of evil men, who went with David, answered, and said, Because they have not gone with us, we will not give to them of the spoil which we have delivered, except each his wife and his children, and they shall go and go.
And it came to pass, after whom did the king of Israel go out? and after whom shall ye pursue? and after a dead dog? and after one soap?
Having, being content to suffer pain with the people of God, than for a short time to have a taste of the pleasures of sin;
And David and his men dwelt in Gath at Gath; and every man had his family with him; and David had his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail of Carmel, who had been the wife of Nabal.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah hath sent me to anoint thee, and to make thee king over Israel over Israel: therefore hear ye the words of Jehovah.
And thy asses, which were lost three days ago, did not set thy heart upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his oath which he had vowed; and she knew no man; and it was a custom in Israel.
And he took the young goat with the meal-offering thereof, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah, who did foreign things.
And Saul encamped in Gibeah of Jehozadak, which was over against the wilderness in the way. And David abode in the wilderness. And when Saul was come after him into the wilderness,
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with the sword, and with shield, and with shield: but I came unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the hosts of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
Now therefore deliver up men of Belial in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and pervert away the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hear the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
So David rebuked his men with the words, and suffered them not to rise up against Saul. And Saul rose up from the cave, and went on his way.
And he said unto them, Follow me: for Jehovah hath delivered our enemies the Moabites into our hand. And they went down after him, and took him on the fords of the Jordan, which are in the way to Moab; and they suffered no man to pass over.
And David came to Saul, and waited before him: and he loved Saul, who made him his servant, and avenged him.
And the lad left, and David rose up from the south side, and fell upon his face toward the ground, and bowed down three times: and they kissed one another, and wept; but David wept.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it, and gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
And the lamp of God is not yet put out; and Samuel lies down in the temple of Jehovah, where is the ark of God.
But apart from all controversy, the less by the better is blessed.
Have they not found, have they not divided the spoil? The damsel, two dromedaries, to every man; to Sisera a prey of red garments, a prey of fine linen, of fine linen, in the neck of the spoil?
Be not led away by various and strange commandments; for it is good, that the heart be established by grace, not by meat, through which they that were not shed were not seemly.
Let our lord now command thy servants, which are before thee, to seek out a man, that is a skilful thing upon a harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And the five men went and came to Laish, and observed the people that dwelt according to the customs of the Sidonians, and quiet, and old, and lacked nothing in the land, and possessed. And they were far from the Sidonians, and had no word with any man.
For the law having a shadow of coming good, not the image of the matters, every year, by the same sacrifice which they offer continually, can not be able to make perfect them that come nigh.
And he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites the inhabitants of that land, and slew them not.
And thou shalt go forward from thence, and come unto the oak of Tabor; and three men shall meet thee there going up to God to Beth-el; one bearing three young he-goats, and another bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, crowned with glory and honor, because he suffered himself to death, that by the grace of God he might die for all men.
And Michal let David down through the window; and he went, and fled, and escaped.
And he had thirty sons, and as many daughters, whom he sent out, and gave to husbands, and took wives for his sons of the same number, and brought them into his house. And he judged Israel seven years.
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah had been pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and an oblation at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would he at this time have told us such things as these.
And, behold, there came a old man from his work out of the field at even, which was also of mount Ephraim; and he sojourned in Gibeah: but the men of the place were a Benjamite.
And David's two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel, was carried captive captive.
And I beseech you the more to do this, that I may be restored again to you.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father knoweth well that I have found favour in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a way betwixt me and death.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not: thou shalt not die.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust; He lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, To make them sit with princes, And inherit the throne of glory: For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's; He hath set the world upon them.
O Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, when thou didst set out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, and the skies pour out water.
Howbeit the man would not tarry all night: and he arose, and went, and came to pass before the Jebusites ( which is Jerusalem), and with him two asses saddled, and his concubine with him.
And the thistle shall say unto the trees, If ye have anointed me for king over you, come, take refuge in my shadow; and if not, fire cometh out from the bramble bush, and devoureth the cedars of Lebanon.
And he spake also to the men of Peniel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
And when they knew the voice of the young man the Levite, and lodged with him, they said unto him, Who brought thee hither? what is thou here? why come thou hither?
and he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah brought forth a great victory for all Israel, and thou sawest it, and rejoiced: wherefore then sin should thou sin against the blood of death?
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be visited, because thy throne shall be empty.
And one of the sons of Shelemiah the son of Ahitub, who was the name of Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
Therefore Jesus therefore suffered out of the gate, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the masters of Shechem's tower were gathered together.
to the mark I persecuted for the perfecting of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, when there was come to pass, that a man told his friend, saying, Behold, I had dreamed a loaf of barley bread, which fell into the tents of Midian, and fell to the tent, and overthrew it, and fell upon the ground.
and behold, if it go up by the way of his border unto Beth-shemesh, it is he that hath done us this great evil: if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that touched us; it was a chance to us.
How much more, if the people had willingly taken their food from the spoil of those that fight against them! Shall there be much destruction among the Philistines?
The reproach of Christ is better than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked unto the reward.
As David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
Remove not thy confidence, which hath great reward.
And the elders said, What shall we do with the rest, that have not received wives? for all the women in Benjamin are dead.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his face, or on the height of his stature; for I have cast him off; for it is not as man seeth: for man looketh upon the face, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
This day shall Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the camp of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; and all the earth shall know that Israel hath a God;
I thank my God in all remembrance of you.
Whithersoever they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah sware unto them; and they were greatly distressed.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and went hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God, and brought it from Zalmonah to Ashdod.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath, and sought no more after him.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Thou shalt not let thy voice be heard among us, that they shall not vex thee, and take thy life, and the lives of thy house.
Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day: for he thought, he hath come upon him, he is not clean; he is not clean.
The more therefore did I send him, that, having seen him again ye may rejoice, and I may be the more sad.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted to kill it, and took the meal, and kneaded the dough, and baked him unleavened bread.
But ye, remember the former days in which, when ye were enlightened, ye bare a great company with sorrows:
And they were a wall to us both night and day: all the days we were with them keeping the sheep.
And it came to pass, if they had remembered the land from which they went out, that they should turn backward.
And now the king walketh before thee: now I am old and old old, but my sons, behold, are with thee; and I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
And the war began again: and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter, and fled from his face.
And there turned and fled into the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon six hundred men; and they dwelt in the rock Rimmon four months.
And he changed his face before them, and laid down between their hands: and he stumbled against the doors of the gate, and his spittle fell upon his beard.
And now make a new cart, and take two young kine upon which there hath no yoke, and bind the cattle to the cart, and bring their calves home from them:
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young women that were virgins, who knew no man by lying with any male, and brought them to the camp, to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And David dwelt in the wilderness, and dwelt in the hill-country in the wilderness in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
but we can not give them wives from our daughters: for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And here men that die shall receive tithes; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is witnesses that he liveth.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and he hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And death died in time all that generation; and another generation followed them, not knowing the Lord, nor of the things which he had done for Israel.
For every one that useth milk is brutish in the word of righteousness; for he is a child.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of the mountain of Gaash.
And they sent and gathered together all the nobles of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And the Gath thereof said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel.
And Jehovah will judge, and judge between me and thee: he shall see and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Wait, and I tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Speak.
And he restored them unto his mother, who said unto him, I have consecrated and vowed this silver to Jehovah, that my son may receive it at my hand, and make a graven image and molten gods; so now I will deliver it unto thee.
But there was a stronghold in the city, and all the men and the women of the city fled there, and shut themselves in, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and delivered thee out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppress thee.
And it came to pass, that, when the Lord hath delivered as Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, then I will rend your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man? knowing that he hath come forth to put shame upon Israel: and if any man shall overcome him, the king will give that man much riches, and shall give him his daughter, and make his father's household free in Israel.
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned unto his house.
And Samuel called together the people unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the king of Canaan, the king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor: and he had the captain of his host called a name, and dwelt in the summer of the nations.
And Saul sought to smite David and the wall with the spear; but he departed from Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall. And David fled, and escaped that night.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that he set the Canaanites to tasklabor, and did not utterly drive it out.
And he called him in that day, saying, The Baal shall judge him, because he hath broken down his altar.
And when Samuel came to Saul, Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have kept the word of Jehovah.
And the asses of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go for the asses.
And David came to Ziklag, and sent of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, Behold, for you a blessing of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah.
By faith a good sacrifice did Abel offer unto God than Cain, through which he testified to be righteous, and God testifieth of his gifts, and through it he was dead, yet speaketh.
Jozabad, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount to Arabah, to the entrance of Hamath.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and entered in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the images, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the door of the gate with the six hundred men that were girded with weapons of war.
And the name of the man was the name of Nabal; and the name of his wife was Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance; but the man was deceitful and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To day if ye will hear his voice,
Then said David, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me, and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou wearied me by bringing me up? And Saul said, I am in distress; for the Philistines are about to fight against me, but God hath turned away from me, and he will not answer me any more, nor by the prophets, nor by the dreams: therefore I called unto thee, that I should tell me what I should do.
Awake, awake up, and awake; awake, awake, and awake a song: get up, and draw out thy captivity; take away thy captives, O son of Nimshi.
And it came to pass, when David's young men came, that they told the Nabal of the Carmelite in David's name, and said nothing.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich; He bringeth low, he also lifteth up.
And Saul pitched his tents upon the hill of the Canaanite, which is before the wilderness in the way. But David was in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul was following him.
concerning jealousy, persecuted the church; concerning the righteousness which is in the law shall be perfect.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man unto his tents, and the plague was very great; and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And he said unto her, If they only put me round about me, I will be weak, and I will be like any other man.
And it came to pass, when he returned, that he said unto his father and to his mother, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines: and now I have found her for my wife.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the high priest of our confession Jesus:
Be therefore therefore merciful unto thy servant; for thou hast been joined with thy servant in a covenant before Jehovah: but if there be any iniquity in me, put me to death, why do thou bring me to thy father?
And the meal-offering took up the shoulder with the fat tail upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the portion which hath been kept for thee: take it as the portion of the feast; for it was kept for thee, until the time came, and until the guests were present. So that day Saul took food with Samuel.
For when God made a promise unto Abraham, seeing he had none to swear by, he sware by himself,
and he brought them to the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him, while David dwelt in his stead.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness for us: for he said,
And they took two of the captains of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and smote a Oreb at the rock of Oreb; and as as as as as as many as they had slain in the winepress, they pursued unto Midian; and the heads of Oreb and Zeeb they brought to pass on beyond the Jordan.
And David said unto Ahijah, What have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I have been before thee till this day, that I go not in, and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
While it is said, If ye will hear his voice unto day, ye will not harden your hearts as in the provocation.
And it came to pass, as they were going down at the end of the city, and Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to go before us. And he went before, and Samuel said, But now, stand first, that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall be upon him, and he shall judge Israel, and shall go out to battle, and Jehovah will deliver his hand against the king of Syria, and his hand was hardened against Cushi.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by going into a city that hath gates and bars.
That we say with a good heart, The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid: what can man do unto me?
Behold, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in the falling away of the living God,
but Christ as a son, over his house; whose house are we, if we keep our hearts in the glad and hope until the end.
Whithersoever they went out against the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah sware unto them; and they were greatly distressed.
And the servants of Ahijah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not make songs of him in their dances, saying, Saul hath put to death thousands, and David ten thousands?
Behold unto the dogs, behold ye to evil workers, consider the reproach.
that every knee is at the name of Jesus, and every knee in heaven, and on earth, and in the grave.
And Chimham went with the elders of Gilead, and the people set him over them for the head and for the captain: and at jah spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem, priest of the Most High, who met Abraham, as he returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him,
As I sware in my anger, They shall not enter into my rest.
And I said, I am Jehovah your God: fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; neither would ye hear my voice.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, None of us shall go into his tent, neither shall any of us turn into his house.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
From thence they passed over to mount Ephraim; and they came to the house of Micah.
And it said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he shall call unto thee, that thou say, Speak, Lord, for thy servant shall hear. And Samuel went and slept in his stead.
For every one that taketh suck in the word of righteousness, because he is a child;
And Saul said unto David, Thou canst not go against this of the Philistines to fight with him; for thou art but a child, and he a man of war from his youth.
And the men of Ephraim were called together, and passed over to the north, and said to them, Why hast thou passed over to fight against the children of Ammon, and have not cried upon us? we have burned thy house with fire.
For this we have much things to say, and it is hard to declare, seeing thou hast been made void to hear.
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels, Jesus, because of the stripes of death, with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for all.
( for nothing did the law perfect), and that which was in a profit hope, through which we draw nigh unto God.)
So turning their backs upon the men of Israel, and they went toward the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the city, they left them, and smote them.
Howbeit they would not hearken unto their judges, but followed other gods, and worshipped them; and turned aside from the way wherein their fathers had gone, keeping the commandment of Jehovah; but they did not.
And the cart was come into the field of Joshua the goldsmiths, and stood there, and there were a great stone; and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the cattle for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
but the chief priest alone, once once in the year, not without blood, which he offereth for himself, and for the people.
For if the priests change it, it must be changed in the law.
And the children of Asher took not the land of Egypt, nor Sidon, nor idolaters, or Achzib, nor swaddled, or Rosh, or Rehob,
And the custom of the priests with the people: any man offereth a sacrifice, then the servant of the priest shall come in when the flesh is bitten, and three teeth in his hand;
And he said, Let thy words be now: what shall the child's way of life be?
And Shebna said unto him, Where is thy mouth wherewith thou saidst? Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go out, and fight against him.
And they said, What sin shall we send unto him? And they said, five golden images of the mighty men made by thy plague and five gold, one for every lord of the Philistines: for the plague was upon you, and upon your lords.
And I said also, I will not drive them out from before you; and they shall be unto you for their adversaries, and their gods shall be for you for a snare.
And turn not aside after the wise man, which have no advantage nor delivered; for they are esteemed minded.
And the king said to the guard that stood about him, Return, and slay the priests of Jehovah; for their hand also is with David, and because they knew that he fled, and declared it not unto me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
Therefore he is able to save also to the end that draw nigh to God by him, seeing that he liveth for ever to make intercession for them.
And he said, They were my brethren, my mother's sons: By the life of Jehovah, if thou hadst delivered them, I would not put you to death.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And there was a man in the Maon, whose goods were in Carmel; and the man was very great: and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he began to feed his sheep in Carmel.
And all Israel heard this report; and Saul smote the Philistines' garrison: and Israel took courage against the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and set themselves in array against Gibeah.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines, and pursued them, until they came to Bethphage.
And when he heard the noise of the cry, he said, What is the noise of this uproar! And the man hasted, and came in, and told it to Naaman.
and the portion went in after the blade, and the fat was joined over the sickle; for he took not the sword out of his belly. And he went forth into the gate of Jehovah.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floor.
And it came to pass in the morning that Jonathan went out into the field, to the place to meet David, and a little child with him.
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget your work and the love which ye have called for his name, having served the saints, and to serve them.
And they said, If thou sendest away the ark of the God of Israel, thou sendest it not empty; but by all means turn a trespass offering unto him: then thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto thee wherefore his hand is not taken away from thee.
But ye came to mount Zion, and to a city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to thousands of angels;
And Jonathan said, My father is troubled in the land: now see how mine eyes shall be, because I have found a little honey.
And the whole congregation sent and spake unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, and proclaimed peace unto them.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly shortly, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron: but when the ark of God came unto Ekron, the harlot cried out, saying, They have brought all the ark of the God of Israel to slay us and to our people.
Out of Ephraim their root against Amalek. After thee, Benjamin, among thy people. Out of Machir came down the harlot, and out of Zebulun those that go with the reed of a writer.
For ye were given unto you as Christ's sake, not only the believing on him, but the suffering for him also.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, and he did on her the vow that he had vowed; and she had known no man; and it was a sure custom in Israel.
And the children of Israel grieved for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And Samuel said to the boil, Bring the portion that I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Now to God our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
By so much was Jesus made a good covenant.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have observed what Amalek did unto Israel, how he withstood him when he went up out of Egypt.
So he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shasher; but they found them not; they passed through the land of Shallers; but they were not there; he passed through the land of Benjamin, but found them not.
And David said, Truly in vain have I kept all that belonged to this man in the wilderness, and nothing was lost of all that belonged to him: and he turned me evil for good.
If thy father look and inquire for me, thou shalt answer him; and David asked me that he might run to Bethlehem his own city; for there are a sacrifice for all his tribes.
And they set a ambush against him on the top of the mountains: and when they waited for his coming, they took spoil, and took spoil of all that passed by; and it was told Abimelech.
And David said unto Abishai, And is there not here under thy hand sword or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast despised the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
For when they heard it, they rebelled, but not all that came out of Egypt through Moses.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, O young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy handmaid the Gilonite.
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? for that the worshippers of them that fear themselves should not have a conscience of sins.
And it blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman from this woman for the petition of Jehovah. Then they went to their own house.
He asked water, she gave milk; In the mighty of the nobles she brought forth butter.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed with Jabin king of Canaan.
But the children of Benjamin destroyed not the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem: and the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand ten thousand, to bring provision for the people, that they may do, when they came to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all that they wrought in Israel.
Salute every holy one in Christ Jesus. The brethren that with me salute you.
And he came to the sheepfolds, which were in his way. And there was a cave, into which Saul went, to ease nature: now David and his men lay hid in the inner part of the cave.
And there was a man that was in the Maon, whose work was in Carmel: and the man was very rich, and there was three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats, and the sheep of his sheep was laid in Carmel.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, and said, Go, and hide in the vineyards;
And he said unto them, Follow me, and Jehovah hath given Moab your enemies into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab; and they suffered no man to pass over.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel dwelt in all the land of the Amorites in that land.
What then? in every way, whether in covetousness or in truth, Christ is preached, and in this I rejoice, yea, and shall rejoice.
And verily, if they had been mindful of whence they came out of whence they came, they would now return.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear, and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Are they not all ministration, sent forth to minister for them that shall be heirs of salvation?
So David and his men rose early to depart in the morning to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants urged him, and the woman also. So he hearkened unto what they said, and he arose from the ground, and sat upon the bed.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchizedek met him.
And it came to pass afterward, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel set themselves in array to fight against them at Gibeah.
And the anger of Jehovah burned against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And when she was sick of the women that were with her, she said, Fear not, for thou hast brought forth a son. But she answered not, and hearkened not.
And Saul said unto his servants, Call me a man that is a sorceress, and bring him unto me.
which is a parable of the time; according to which gifts and sacrifices are offered, which can not, as to the conscience, make him perfect who serves, only in food and in drink,
And the woman bare a son, and called his name a son: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And by faith Joseph, when his end was nigh, he made mention of the departure of the children of Israel; and he commanded his bones.
And Jehovah called Samuel again, so that Samuel arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Behold, I am, because thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called thee, my son: go back, and lie down.
Neither did Zebulun cast out the inhabitants of Naphtali, nor the inhabitants of fifty men; but the Canaanite dwelt among them, and became tributary.
and the hand of the children of Israel, and prevailed, and prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had cut off to Jabin king of Canaan.
And Mesha fled into the tent of showbread the wife; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Lasea.
And as the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, the people wept sore.
And after him, the son of Potipherah, he wrote the Pirathonite the Pirathonite.
that afterward their children might learn to fight with their enemies, and to be taught for war;
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it to minister in those days, saying, Shall we go out once more to fight against the children of Benjamin our brethren, or should we cease? And Jehovah said, Go up to morrow; I will give them into thy hand.
And ye have forgotten the exhortation that speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou rebuke him:
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin and the families thereof; and the lot fell upon the family of meeting, and came to Saul the son of Kish: and they sought him therefore, but he was not found.
for they could not stand that which was commanded, saying, If even an beast toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we are about to go over to the men; and we will shew ourselves unto them.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the wicked woman, Do I not know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And Esarhaddon the son of Joash went, and dwelt in his own house.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed unto him.
For God, when he promised unto Abraham, since he had no greater to swear by, sware by himself,
and did eat the good word of God, and of power to come.
And Hanun, she spake unto her heart; only her lips are moved, and her voice was not heard; but she thought that she would be drunken.
And he stood and called unto the companies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set the battle? not I the Philistines, and ye servants to Saul? choose ye a man, and let him come down to me.
Now David was the son of an Canaanitish writer. This man was of Bethlehem of Judah, and his name was Jesse: and he had eight sons: this man was old, yet he yet walked among the men.
And Saul said unto his servants that were there concerning him, Hear now, thou Benjamite; I will give unto every one of you field and vineyards, and make thee all the captains of hundreds, and captains of thousands;
And David put his hand into the sack, and took a stone from it, and smote it. And he smote the Philistines upon his forehead, and the stone sank into his forehead; and he fell on his face to the ground.
And they journeyed through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom and Moab, and came to the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon: and they did not go into the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Now now, hear in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is terrible and trembling, let him return and depart from mount Gilead. So twenty thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards, out of the land: wherefore hast thou laid a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
Then she brought him up with her, when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine: and she brought him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, while the lad was yet young.
For we are friends of Christ, if we keep the beginning of the truth endure unto the end.
They were stoned, they were hewn asunder, they were tempted, they were put to death by the sword, they wandered about in rams, when they swoon, being afflicted, and afflicted.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day.
And the Amorite longed to dwell in the hill-country of Gihon, in Aijalon, and in order, and the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy, and they became tributary.
And it was so, when he heard the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian.
If he say, It shall be peace for thy servant; but if he be very wroth, know that he hath determined to do me harm.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
and, behold, I send the young man: go, find the arrows. If I at all say to the lad, Behold the arrows on this side of thee, take them; then come thou, for peace for thee, and there is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
For there are they, of whom I have given you word before, and now with sorrow, who hate the cross of Christ;
For if that the first covenant was without spot, there would not be sought for a second.
And the ambush was sitting in wait for her in a inner room; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O son: and he did handle the bow as the colour of flax, when it came near to the fire; and the secret of his strength remained.
And he answered and said, I beseech thee, my lord, wherewith shall I deliver Israel? Behold, my family is the children of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
Then shall the Spirit of Jehovah leap upon thee, and prophesy with them; and ye shall turn into one another.
Is this the first time have I sought from God for him? God forbid: neither let the king make no charge against his servant, nor my father's house; for thy servant hath no knowledge, nor great or small,
And the king said, Inquire, thou knowest his son the field.
And the king of the children of Ammon answered to the messengers of Iphtah-el, saying, Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and to the Jordan; now then restore it again peaceably again.
And Zacchaeus said unto her, If thou wilt come with me, I will go: if thou wilt not come with me, I will not go.
that the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his weapons made, was about twenty men, within as it were half a wheel's length in the Mamre of the land.
And he said unto all Israel, Thou art on one side, and I am with Jonathan my son. And the people said unto Saul, Do all that seemeth good unto thee.
But this, yet once, maketh manifest the captivity of the things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that the things which is not moved may remain.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites: for the people have kept the best of the sheep and the bullocks, as a offering unto Jehovah thy God: we have all rest to perish.
And the ambush came quickly, and reached against Gibeah; and it put all the city to the sword.
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he that spake is faithful.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the people of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with augury, even Ashdod, and the border thereof.
He rose up at the north in front of Michmash, and the other on the south before Geba.
not in the spirit of strife or vain glory; but in humility of mind every one working the other as more excellent than themselves;
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child a father, he hath served with me in the work of the gospel.
Gilead dwelt beyond the Jordan: wherefore did Dan abide in the ships? Asher continued on the sea-shore, and dwelt in his breaches.
And they came over Shedec, and made war on him: and they smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And it came to pass, when he went in, and prepared a young goat, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal. And he put the flesh in a basket, and he put the hire in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and brought it.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel, and the children of Israel slew in Benjamin, in that day, twenty and five thousand, and a hundred men: all these were drawn by the sword.
And Araunah answered and was the chief among the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse, and Abishai the son of Ahitub, the priest.
But behold how great this man was, to whom Abraham the release purchased from the spoil.
For it was he, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many children unto glory, to make the prince of their salvation perfect through sorrows.
How much more shall ye think the man to be accounted worthy of the Son of God, and who seeth the blood of the covenant by which he was made holy, and who reproacheth the Spirit of grace?
And Abimelech was chief over Israel three years.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me: behold, I go after thee: but she told not her husband.
How much more, if the people had eaten willingly of the spoil of their enemies, which they have found? for should there not now be a great great slaughter among the Philistines?
Shall the men of Kittim deliver me into his hand? and will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and riding upon an ass, with five maidens that went after her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And they were stoned, and dwelt in the midst of the two: they slew with the sword, and wandered about in rams, in the field, and afflicted, and afflicted, and afflicted.
And he said unto the messengers that had come, Say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow, by the time the sun is high, ye shall be saved. And the ambassadors came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
And by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with the unbelieving, having received the spies in peace.
They shall perish, but ye shall continue; And they shall all be old like a garment.
And Shema the son laid till midnight; and he arose in midnight, and took the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and brake them up with the bar, and put on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
But the hair of his head began to grow after it had been shaven.
And he sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against the Midianites, and take the waters before them to Beth-Midian and Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters to Beth-Midian and Jordan.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people have sinned against Jehovah, to eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have dealt treacherously, O roll unto me to-day a great stone.
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be changed unto another man.
Wherefore since the sons of blood and flesh he also made in like manner in these things, that through death he might destroy him that hath the power of death, which is, the devil;
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren: In the midst of the assembly will I sing praise unto thee.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, If with all your heart ye shall return unto Jehovah, then cast away all the foreign gods and the galleries from among you, and turn your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him alone; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul took him away from him, and made him his captain over a thousand. And he went out, and came in before the people.
So Abimelech arose, and all the people that were with him by night, and lay wait against Shechem, four drove.
And it came to pass, as they were going down to the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, The servant is separated before us, ( and he passed on,) but thou shalt stand still a while, that I may show thee the word of God.
And she said, Let thy servant find favour in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more.
And Jehovah visited Hanun, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel waxed before Jehovah.
But that which bringeth forth thorns and briers is reprobate, and very near unto a curse, whose end is to be burned.
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan from Ephraim, and when the fugitive of Ephraim said, Let me pass over, and let me pass over. And the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou? And when he said, No.
For God is not unrighteous, that he should forget your work, and the love which ye have showed in his name, ye that minister, and minister unto the saints.
and the issue went in after the blade, and the fat that was shut upon the blade, that he bare not the sword out of his belly, and it went out at the field.
For Jehovah the God of Israel, the God of Israel, who hath kept me from doing thee evil, if thou hadst not been so soon to come unto me, and to meet me, even the morning was not in the house of Nabal, so much as one male.
And he had two wives: the name of the first was Hanun, and the name of the second was Jaziz. Now the children of Zelophehad had children; but Hanun had no children.
And when he saw her, he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast deceived me, and thou art deceived: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can do no other thing.
and again I will trust in him; and again, I and the children whom God hath given me.
But let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind of the faith of the gospel;
And it came to pass after a time, that the children of Ammon made war with Israel.
And David said, O Lord, the God of Israel, thy servant hath heard a rumour, that Saul is coming to come unto the Reubenites, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was clothed upon, and he bloweth with a trumpet, and Abiezer was called after him.
Hath in these last days spake unto us by his Son, whom he appointed the heir of all things, by whom he made the world;
And the ark was in Kiriath-jearim for a long time, as much as twenty years: and all Israel sought after Jehovah with weeping.
So the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not this evil thing: this man hath come into my house, and ye shall not do this wrong.
That as it is known that some should go in, and that the first hearers of the gospel should not depart, because they went against the commandment of God,
And the king sent to call Abishai the son of Ahitub the priest, and all his father's house, the priests, who were at Nob: and they came all of them unto the king.
And they sat and eat both of them together, and drank; and the father of the damsel said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and lodge all night; and let thy heart be glad.
because for the sake of Christ he was nigh unto death, and to put upon me his life.
And it came to pass from the day when the ark dwelt in Kiriath-jearim, that the days were multiplied, and they were twenty years: and all the house of Israel were lamented after Jehovah.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech deceitfully, saying, Behold, the son of Tabeel and his brethren came into Shechem: and, behold, they will make a city against thee.
And not while I am yet alive, will ye not show the lovingkindness of Jehovah with me, that I may not die?
saying, Sacrifices and offerings, and burnt-offerings, and sacrifices for sin, thou plallest not, neither did ye follow pleasure in the law;
Verily, and I count all things to be a loss for the glory of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord; for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing, but refuse, that I may gain Christ;
Now I say, I will not drive them out from before you; they shall be as thorns for you, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
For Christ entered not into a holy place, which was made by men's hands, as a copy of truth: but he went into heaven, and now standeth before the face of God for us.
Even though I hope in the flesh, if any other thought to hope in flesh, I rather:
But the people hearkened not to the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will reign over us.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came unto Samuel unto Ramah,
And I will declare unto him that I judge his house for ever, because of the iniquity which he hath known: for his children shall make themselves vile, and he shall not withhold them.
And he said unto him, God forbid: ye shall not be put to death: behold, my father doeth nothing, great or small, without giving me word: should he hide this secret from me? It is not so.
And when Abigail saw David she made haste, and she alighted off the ass, and fell before David, on her face, and worshipped on the ground.
And Jesse said to David his son, Take, I pray thee, to thy brethren, an ephah of barley roasted, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp unto thy brethren.
Therefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be a snare unto you, and their gods shall fall unto you.
And when Saul heard that David had gone to Gath, he pursued him no longer.
By faith, Abraham, when he was called, hearkened to go forth to the place which he should receive for an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing whence he went.
And David went forth; whithersoever Saul sent him, he prospered: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also before the eyes of Saul's servants.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their heart spake to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
who needed not daily, as the other priests, to offer sacrifices first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, in offering.
And Jonathan answered Saul, saying, He asked of me earnestly to go to Beth-lehem.
And it came to pass, that the son of Joash had come back from battle before the sun.
And David said, Surely in vain I have kept all that this man had in the wilderness: and nothing was visited of all that was his; but he returned evil against me in place of good.
And Jesse made the head of Jesse passed by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this one.
For every house is builded by some man; but he that builded all things is God.
So when David and his men came into the city, and found it burnt with fire, and that their wives and their sons, and their daughters were taken captive,
But as for the Son, thy throne, O God, for ever for ever, And a sceptre of uprightness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot. And Saul and Jonathan were taken, but the people escaped.
And all the people likewise every one cut down his boughs, and followed Abimelech, and put them at the stronghold, and set the stronghold on fire upon them; so that all the people of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And the custom of the priests with the people, when a man offereth a sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, while the flesh was boiled, with a fan of three teeth in his hand;
whose end is destroyed, whose God is their belly, And whose glory is in their shame, That are of the earth.
And Jehovah said unto them, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hands; Israel shall glory, saying, My hand hath delivered me.
where Jesus went before us, as a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my laws into their hearts, and I will write in their heart.
And they cut off his head, and stripped his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to preach the gospel in the houses of their idols, and to the people.
And he shewed them the entrance into the city, and they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man and all his family go.
And they came to him, while he sat by himself in the summer house. And they said, I have a word from God for thee. And he arose from his throne.
Now therefore consider what ye ought to do; for evil is in store for our master and all his house: for he is a unrighteous man that can not speak unto him.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of Shechem's tower were gathered together.
and we shall smite the south of the Cherethites, and that which is of Judah, and then the South of Caleb; and he burned his brethren with fire.
Take courage, and be men, O Philistines, lest thou end to serve the Hebrews, as they have served thee; be ye men and fight.
And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was come into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth abated again.
not forsake our assembly, as some are read; but exhortation one another, and so much more as ye see the day.
to the chief church of the church, and of the congregation of the first-born, who were appointed in heaven, unto God the Judge of all, to the spirits of the righteous man made perfect;
Let us then, though we yet have the word of God, that we may come into his own rest, that ye may fear that some of you can not do so.
For there is an sect of a long time, that it is written by reason of the weakness thereof and of the fulness thereof.
And in this place again, if they shall enter into my rest.
For we that have believed have entered into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest; although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices; wherefore he must have some thing to offer.
And it came to pass that say, Seventy kings with their thumb and his thumb are cut off, and cut off his hand under my table; as I have done, so hath God recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
So therefore, O king, when thou wilt come down, come down, and it shall be for us to deliver him into the king's hand.
I will also call more abundantly to do this, that I may be added to you again again.
The things that ye have learned, and received, and heard, and saw in me they do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And it came to pass on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side; but he told not his father.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, I pray you, do not wickedly: seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this thought.
And all the children of Israel came to the house of God, and sat and wept before Jehovah: and they fasted that day until the evening, and offered burnt offerings to him, and peace-offerings, and peace-offerings.
And even if I offer myself as a drink offering, I give myself for the prize and the work of your faith; I rejoice and rejoice with you all:
But David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judah: how much more, if we go to Kadesh against the host of the Philistines?
For where there is a covenant, the death of the covenants must needs come in.
For he that entered into his rest, he also sat from his works, as God from his own.
And as for the asses, which were lost three days ago, be not anxious, because they are found: and for whom shall be all the best things of Israel? shall they not be for thee, and for all thy father's house?
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech secretly, saying, Behold, the son of Hassenuah and his brethren come to Shechem: and, behold, they fortify the city against thee.
And all Israel heard say, Saul hath smitten the Philistines' garrison; and Israel also was made odious to the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
Therefore I have sworn unto the house of Ish-bosheth, that the iniquity of the house of Ish-bosheth shall not be cleansed with sacrifice nor oblation for ever.
And, behold, there came a old man from his work out of the field at even; and the man was of mount Ephraim, and he sojourned in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamin.
because ye obeyed not the voice of Jehovah, and did not execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto you this day.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and put it upon the pieces of the altar, with the vessels of gold which thou shalt return unto him; and thou shalt put them in the vessel by the ark, and thou shalt put it away, that it may go away.
a servant of the sanctuary, and of the holy tabernacle, which Jehovah hath encamped, not man.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your troubles and your afflictions; and ye have said unto him, No, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And he took the honey in his hand, and went in, and ate it in the way: and when he came to his father and his mother he gave them; but he spake not that he had taken the honey out of the belly of the lion.
And they said unto him, Ask, we pray thee, at God: and we know whether our way is prosperous wherein we go.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. Then his servants and the woman made him, and he hearkened unto their voice; and he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
For for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not reckoning his life, to refresh your lack toward me.
and they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses had said, and divided thence the three sons of Anak.
And Iphdeiah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon,
But if I walk in the flesh, if this is the fruit of my work, I know not what reason to make.
And David took the Jezreelitess of Jezreel; and they both became his wives.
Neither did they show mercy to the house of Nisroch Baal, according to all the good things which he had done to Israel.
And he said unto him, If now I have grace in thine eyes, then give me a sign that it is thou that speak unto me.
They shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me from their least even to their greatest.
And he said unto them, Thus shall Micaiah done unto me: and he shall choose me, and I will be a priest.
But the king of the children of Ammon did not hearken unto the words of Perez which he sent unto him.
Wilt thou not take possession that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to possess? therefore whomsoever Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, them shall we possess.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Then said then unto him, Now where is thy mouth, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? Is not this the people that thou hast despised? go, go out now, and fight with them.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, This is the man of whom I told thee: he is he that is to have authority over my people.
But now they desire a good land, that is, one heavenly: therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared a city for them.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite into their hand; and they slew of them ten thousand men.
And when he was gone out, the servants of the coming, and saw, and, behold, the doors of the chamber were shut. And they said, Surely he is covered his feet in the summer chamber.
Wherefore I grieved with that generation, and said, They err in their heart evermore; and these have not known my ways.
And over it were cherubim of the glory, set up the mercy-seat, whereof we are not now to speak one.
And David and his men came into the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
Shall I take my bread, my water, and my food that I have slain for my shearers, and give it to men that I know not whence they come from?
But, brethren, receive the words which I have spoken for your profit; for I have not sent you a long letter.
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it; and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I am with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And he turned aside from him to one of the other men, saying the same words: and the multitudes answered him.
And it said unto God, If thou wilt grant Israel salvation by my hand, as thou hast said,
And I will raise up for me a faithful priest; as in my heart and in my soul shall he do; and I have built him a sure house, and he shall walk and down before my anointed all the days.
And his lord answered him, I will not go into the city of another nation, which are not of the children of Israel, but I will pass over to Gibeah:
And David departed thence, and went into the cave of Adullam. And his brethren and all his father's house heard; and they went down thither unto him.
And David went from thence to Mizpah of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
But the hair of his head began to grow after he was shaven.
and let us look one another to provoke to love and to good works;
But Sihon spared not Israel to pass through his border: so Sihon gathered all his people, and encamped at Jahaz; and he fought against Israel.
And the Midianites prevailed over Israel because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made for themselves hid places that were in the mountains, dens, and dens.
But I have all, and have abounded: I am filled, having received from the way of the perfumer, the things which ye sent, a sweet savor, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing unto God.
If thou hast done that which is true and right to transgress and his household this day, thou shalt have joy in Abimelech, and he shall rejoice in thee;
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever; no, when Jehovah shall cut off the enemies of David, every one from the face of the earth.
to them that were in Hormah, to them that dwelt in Bashan, to them that were in Ziklag;
And it came to pass, that Joshua rose up early, and all the host that were with him, and encamped by the fountain of the guard; and the camp of Midian was the north of the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that the sun went down, and said unto him, What is sweet than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye found not out my riddle.
but call to mind the former days, wherein, being enlightened, ye bare a great fight of affliction.
And Samuel did as Jehovah said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came out to him in fear, and said, Wilt thou come in peace?
The rulers ceased in Israel; They ceased until I, Deborah, arose, Until I arose a mother in Israel.
Now when these things were fulfilled, the first of the priests, the priests, indeed, came to pass at all times.
And Achan said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Cause me to feel the pillars upon which the house remaineth, that I may lean upon them.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, that Jehovah raised them up a saviour, and horsemen the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a man left divination; and the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon king of Moab.
And he made him a sword, having two sides, a cubit cubits long; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right hand.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do unto him as it is good in thine eyes. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of the robe that belonged to Saul.
who in the days of his flesh, when he had made supplication and supplications with strong voices and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he was afraid;
Then they stood every man in his place round about the camp: and all the camp ran, and they shouted, and fled.
But Midian humbled himself before the children of Israel, neither could they lift up their children any more: but the land rested for forty years, while he did.
And it came to pass, while she was going down under the mountain upon her ass, that David and his men came down against her; and she fell suddenly to face with them.
And Jehovah said unto Hanun, By the three hundred men, that fed water, I will save thee, and deliver Midian into thy hand: but let all the rest of the people return unto their place.
And Samuel said, Is Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as to obey the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
According to the law, by all that is made clean with blood, and apart from blood of blood there is no release.
And so, having patience, he received the promise.
And they sat down, and ate and drank, both of them together. And the damsel's father said to the man, Be content, I pray thee, and pass the night, and let thy heart be glad.
And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Son of the wicked man saith unto him, Do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And after him repaired the son of Nod, and smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with an Reubenites: and he saved Israel also.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted and slew it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread thereof.
in which God, meaning more abundantly to show unto the heirs of the promise, the preacher of his counsel, a oath;
And when he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Canaan was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken; and when they sought him, he could not be found.
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Zoar: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are at Ramah.
And it came to pass, as they were going down to the end of the city, and Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant that he passed before us ( and he passed on, and stood still now now, that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.
And the men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to smite and slew of the men of Israel about thirty persons; for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us as in the first battle.
And Saul said to his young man, Behold, we go, and what shall we bring in unto the man? for the bread is gone out of our vessels, and there is no present to bring in unto the man of God, what is with us?
according to the jealousy that persecuted the church, according to righteousness that is in the law, being perfect.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that when the Philistines came to take their prey from the dead, they saw Saul and his three sons dead on the earth in mount Gilboa.
And the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon him; and he rent the lion apart, as one might tear apart a kid, a kid of the goats, which he had committed away: but he told not his father and his mother what he had done.
( Now the children of Benjamin had spoken that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, Declare this evil thing.
And Saul said unto his servants, Give me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
for it is witness, Thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchizedek.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and took the city, and killed the people that were therein; and he brake down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And the way of them that dwelt in the camp on the east side of Nobah, and Achzib, and smote the host; for the host was sure.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Having therefore a great high priest that passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God: let us hold fast our confession.
And Saul said, Hear, thou son of Ahitub. And he said, Behold, I am, my lord.
And he said unto the angel of the Lord, What is thy name, that when thy words come to pass, we shall do thee honor?
Moreover as for me, far be it from me, that I should sin against Jehovah in order to pray for thee: but I will instruct thee in the good and the right way.
For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices: therefore the high priest is to offer it.
And Saul saw that he prospered, and was afraid of him.
And Jesse took ma, and said of him, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests for the tribe of Shechem, until the time of the captivity of the land.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, but Jehovah will smite him, or his day come that he shall die, or go down into battle, and be consumed.
And Gilead's wife bare him sons; and his wife's sons waxed up, and they thrust out Baal, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a foreign woman.
And there was no deliverer; for it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Rehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.
And it came to pass on that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the young ox to thy father, and the second bullock of seven years; and thou shalt cast down the altar of Baal which is unto thy father, and that thou shalt cut down the Asherah.
And he brought near unto Eglon king of Moab, and Eglon a very fat man.
but with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that did sin, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
Consider, and see all his covert, wherein he shall say, and return unto me with the certainty of the thing, that I may go with you: and if he be gone down into the earth to hide himself, I will search him out in all the thousands of Judah.
And he had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden candlesticks that had manna, and the rod of Aaron that formed, and the tables of the covenant;
And after him, he Abdon the son of Besodeiah, the Pirathonite, the judges of Israel,
And the meal-offering took up the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, that which is left, set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee since I said, I have called the people. So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And the children of Israel asked Jehovah ( for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
And he said unto them, Thus hath Micaiah dealt with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
Israel was brought very low because of Midian; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
when your fathers tempted me, and saw my works forty years.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they waste the threshing-floor.
And one of the people said unto him, Thy father set the people under an oath, saying, Cursed be he that eateth bread this day. And the people were feeble, and tasted bread.
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men dwelt in the innermost parts of the cave.
neither through blood of goats and oxen, but through his own blood, entered in once into the holy places;
And Jehovah sent Baal, and slime, and Iphtah, and Samuel: and he delivered thee out of the hand of thine enemies round about, and thou dwellest in safety.
let us come near with a true heart in the full confidence of faith; our heart is clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
And he said to Bidkar, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me how thou canst be bound.
not having my righteousness, which of the law, but that which through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith;
And when Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh-gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make with us a covenant, that we may serve thee.
And the children of Judah besieging Jerusalem, took it, and put it to the sword, and set the whole city on fire.
But without faith it is impossible to please: for he that draweth nigh to God must believe that he is; and he is a reward of them that seek him.
So they passed over, and went their way: and the sun went down upon them beside Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
that which ye may be puffed up in Christ Jesus for me, by my return unto you again.
in part, with reason of blasphemy and injurious words, before the eyes of every one, and in part, in being joined with those who were accused in this way.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and prospered: and Saul set him over the men of war. It was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in thee, that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I go forward unto the mark, even the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And Israel sent men to the king of Edom, saying, Let me now go through thy land: but the king of Edom hearkened not to them. And he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel dwelt in Kadesh.
And the people of Israel said one to another, Who shall be the first to smite the children of Ammon? let us make him head over all Gilead.
According to the number of the provinces of the Philistines thou shalt make five gold of gold, and five wedge of gold: for the same plague hath been upon you all, and upon your lords; and thou shalt make the likeness of your flesh, and the likeness of it that have destroyed the land, and give glory unto the God of Israel: if he shall take off his hand from you, and from your gods, and from thy land.
For unto Abraham God, when he had made promise, seeing he was able to swear by no greater, sweareth by himself.
And Barnabas was given to Saul, that David was at Ramah.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man.
And so Levi also, he that receiveth tithes, hath given tithes through Abraham.
And after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, he saw his wife with a young goat: and he said, I will go in unto my wife's chamber. And her father would not suffer him to go in.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers; and they spoiled them, and sold them into the hand of their enemies from all sides; and they could not withstand their enemies any more.
And he continued a certain day, saying by David so long time so long time ( as it is said, To-day if thou wilt hear his voice, harden not thy heart.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon fought with Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to tasktorment of the land of Ahitub.
Since he had given him many times to suffer from the foundation of the world, but now once, at the end of the ages, for the putting away of sin through his sacrifice, he was manifested.
Therefore therefore, behold, the king is thy chosen, for whom thou hast asked: behold, Jehovah hath set a king over thee.
The rest of the peoples are saved, Jehovah hath fought among the mighty men.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, that Israel was very sore.
Shall I be mad, that thou hast brought this fellow to play the mad in my presence? should this man come into my house?
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
For he that hath entered into his rest, hath also himself rest from his works, as God did of his works.
And when they told Amaziah, he went and stood in the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
Then said the men of the city unto Joash, Bring out thy son, that he may die: for he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath hewn down the Asherah that was by it.
So Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied and Samuel standing as chief over them, then came the Spirit of God upon Saul's messengers, and they prophesied also.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be a priest unto me, to go up unto my altar, to burn incense, and to bear an ephod before me: I gave the house of thy father all the offerings by fire unto the children of Israel.
And Saul was told, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah in Ramah.
and make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it be healed.
And the heads of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the lords of Shechem set him in wait upon the top of the mountains; and they plundered all that went by them by the way; and it was told to Abimelech.
The children of Benjamin abhorreth lies out of the gates of Gibeah; and they made them great a slaughter of slaughter, as to slay eighteen thousand men that drew the sword.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Jalam, and Malchijah, and Malchijah, the name of his two daughters, the name of the first-born, the name of the younger Michal;
The bow of the mighty are broken; And they that stumbled are armed with strength.
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these the Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go thou smite the Philistines, and save the Moabites.
And all the men of war arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Beth n, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
Is it not wheat to day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may understand and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking you a king.
The glory of the Lord went up from the presence of Jehovah, this was Sinai, from the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were troubled.
And a man of the people answered and said, Avenge thy father the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread to-day; and the people are weary.
And Abimelech went up to Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him, and Abimelech took the great axe in his hand, and cut off a branch of the trees, and lifted it up, and put it on his shoulder, and said to the people that were with him, What ye have seen I have done, so be ye so.
But whereunto we come, that we are of the same mind, let us also continue also in the same rule.
And part, being uncovered unto both reproach and oppression; and part to be with them that were treated so.
For it is evident that our Lord came out of Judah; of whom tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
For God had prepared us better for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.
in which God, willing, willing to show unto the heirs of the promise the dispensation of his counsel,
Jehovah killeth and restore alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and raiseth up.
And by faith Moses, when he had grown up, he refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
And when the burnt-offering was finished, and Samuel came; and Saul went out to see him, and to bless him.
Jesus, even Jesus, and this day and ever.
Among all this people were seven hundred chosen men, bound of their right hand, every one with a stone at the hair, and he did not err.
And there was a young man of Bethlehem, Judah of his kindred: and he was a Levite, and dwelt there.
For I have no one that is minded, That will understand thy precepts.
They that were full before have hired themselves for bread; and the hungry are filled, so that the barren beareth many; and she that had many children faint.
And the children of Ammon gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel gathered together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And it came to pass, that when Hanun travailed, she conceived a son; and she called his name Samuel: for she said, I prayed unto Jehovah for him.
But without faith it is impossible to God: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and is a gift to them that seek him.
And David abode his servants with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And Elkanah her husband would say unto her, O Hanun, why weepest thou, and why dost thou not eat? And why art thou ill sick? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
And the king said unto Memucan, Thou shalt kill the priests. And thou hast defied the priests, and smote the priests, and smote them, and smote the two of the ephod.
And the Philistines came near every morning and evening forty days.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Ye shall not cease from crying unto Jehovah our God, that he may deliver us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast been foolish; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now Jehovah established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And it came to pass that say, Seventy kings, having their thumb and their great toes cut off, cut off my table; as I have done, so hath God done unto me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
And it came to pass, when Joshua had sent the people away, that the children of Israel went every man to possess the land.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Iphtah-el, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan; and now restore it peace.
And, behold, an old man came from his work from the field in the evening, and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he dwelt as a sojourner in Gibeah. And the people of the place were the children of Benjamin.
And the princes of the Philistines were gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to shear their god, and to rejoice; and they said, Our god hath given us our enemy our enemy.
Is not this David, who was named in their songs, when in the dance they said one to another, Saul hath killed thousands, and David ten thousands?
And if it be done to the end of the priests the Levites, for the people have received the law for the people's office, what need ought to another priest to rise up according to the order of Melchizedek, and not according to the order of Aaron?
But thou hast rejected thy God, who hath ever delivered thee from all thy troubles and thy troubles; thou hast said unto him, Nay, but thou shalt set a king over us. And therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by thy tribes, and by thy families.
if I have in any way the reward of life from the dead.
And after him repaired the spirit of Beth-lehem, the judgment of Israel.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; let all thy desire lie upon me; only stay not in the street.
And it was so, when he heard the dream, and the interpretation thereof, which he worshipped. Then he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered the host of Midian into your hand.
For I live Christ, and to die is gain.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in this, thy power; and thou hast saved Israel out of the hand of Midian, I have not sent thee.
They that strive with Jehovah shall be broken to pieces; he shall thunder against them in the heavens; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; he shall give strength unto his king, And he shall exalt the horn of his anointed.
seeing that he longed after you all, and was distressed, because ye heard that he was sick;
by faith, we know that the effectual is framed by the word of God, that which is seen hath not been made out of the sight.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, to obey the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take, I pray thee, with thee one of the young men, and arise, go, seek the asses.
And when he saw her, he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast made me to bow down, and hast become my trouble: I have sworn unto Jehovah, and I can not take it back.
And Saul enquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou give them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not in that day.
if thy father saw me, and thou hast said, David asked earnestly that I run to Bethlehem his city for a sacrifice of the days for the whole family.
And there was no few nor great, neither of their sons, nor their daughters, nor of the spoil, nor of the spoil, and whatsoever they had taken.
So Saul died, and three of his sons, and the armorbearer of his armor, even all his men, on that day.
And David said to Jonathan, Behold, I pray thee, to-morrow is the new moon, and I will do according to custom, to sit beside the king to eat: let me go therefore, that I may be hid in the field until the third day.
And they said unto him, To bind thee we came down to give thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Swear to me, lest ye fall upon me.
And when his servants had told David the words that Saul had said, the word pleased David to be the king's son in law.
Know that our brother Timothy is set in liberty; with whom, if he come soon, I will see you.
Now therefore, if ye have dealt faithfully and right in that ye have made Abimelech king; and if ye have dealt well with whips and his house, and if ye have done to him according to the portion of his hands;
And there was there in the midst of the city a high tower, which both the men and the women were fled together, and all the princes of the city, and having shut up the gate, they stood upon the windows of the tower to defend themselves.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: nevertheless admonished them, and show them the customs of the king that shall reign over them.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: and now send and fetch him unto me; for he must die.
And when the Philistines looked, and saw David, he despised him: for he was a young man, and white countenance, and a pleasant countenance.
And they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the vessels before them.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of feasting, whose name was named.
But they rebelled against Jehovah their God, and delivered them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Jabin king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, who made war against them.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast done good unto me, and I will requite thee with evil.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken Jehovah our God, and serve the Baalim.
But Sihon trusted not Israel, to let him pass through his border: and Sihon gathered all his people, and encamped in Jahaz; and he fought with Israel.
But Christ hath come to be the high priest of the good things, through the greatest, and above the perfect, not made by hands, which is, not of this creature;
And it came to pass after a certain time, when their heart was merry, they said, Call a son, and let him take us. And they called the son of the guard, and lodged them. And they made him stand between the pillars.
And David sent ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name.
And David took the spear and drawers of water from the head of Saul's head; and they went away, and no man saw, and none knew, nor awaked; for they were all sleeping; for a deep sleep from Jehovah had fallen upon them.
And it came to pass, that year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, she besieged her, so that Hanun wept, and did not eat.
Now therefore go up by night, ye and the people that are with you, and lie in wait in the field.
On the morrow, the people went out into the field; and it was told unto Abimelech,
But Saul said nothing on that day; for he thought, he came to him: he is not clean; he is not clean.
And Shema the son lieth down until the middle of the night, and rose up in the middle of the night, and laid hold on the doors of the gate of the city, and on the two side posts, and put them away with the bar, and put them on his shoulders, and took them up to the top of the hill, which is before Hebron.
And they came to pass, and the men that were with him, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the camp at the first of the midst of the midst of the camp; and they had but a new song, and blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels that were in their hands.
And David said unto Ahijah, If now I have favor in thine eyes, let me have a place in one of the cities of thy land, to dwell therein; for it is not right for thy servant to dwell with thee in the king's city.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, O Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
And there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Chinneroth, the son of Jaroah, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Hodiah, a Benjamite, a mighty of valor;
And they said, There shall be a possession of the tribe of Benjamin, that a tribe may not be blotted out of Israel.
by faith he dwelt in the land of promise as a sojourner, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of the same promise.
And Saul said, Bring the burnt-offering hither, and the peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? for they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
I have told that thou hast sheep-sheep; now have the keepers of thy flock been with us, and we have done them no evil, and have taken nothing of them, while they were in Carmel.
And it shall come to pass, when thou goest, that thou shalt come unto the people that feareth, and the land is spread out upon all sides; and God hath given a place into thy hand, where there is no lack of anything that is upon the earth.
For it was made to him, because of whom the whole things, and through whom the whole things, the many sons, bringing the glory of their salvation through the sufferings to make perfect.
I am able to do all things by him that hath strengthened me.
Now Jehovah had revealed unto the ear of Samuel the day before Saul came, saying,
And it came to pass, after you had no desire for sacrifice, for burnt-offerings, for burnt-offerings, for sin, which are made by the law, and ye had no pleasure in them;
And in this cause let him receive tithes, but in that cause it is testified that he liveth.
And Jehovah smote after Thomas, and with all his chariots, and with all his army, before the face of a flood; and, behold, he went down from his chariot, and fled on foot.
And they went up the way of the city, when they found young women going out to draw water; and they said unto them, Is there the seer here?
And when Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And when all that had known him, and the day before, seeing that he was with the prophets, and prophesied, said to one another, What is this that hath happened to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide, and continue with you all, for your perfecting and joy of faith.
Then the trees said unto the fig tree, Thou, thou hast rule over us.
And David's young men turned their way, and returned, and came and told him according to all that words.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
And David knew that Saul was to devise the evil, and said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring near the ephod.
Now therefore, let not my blood fall from the face of the earth from the presence of Jehovah; for the king of Israel hath come forth to seek a covering, as when one pursueth a partridge in the mountains.
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is not it because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?
But on the fourth day early in the morning he asked to depart. But his father in law kept him, and said unto him, Feed first a little bread, and strengthen thy stomach, and thou shalt depart.
And the woman had a calf of the stall in the house; and she hasted and slaughter it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and kneaded it unleavened bread.
and they shall fall away, that they may make them that are the Son of God, and make a show of it.
For in that which he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And I trust in Jehovah that I myself also shall come.
And it came to pass, when Samuel rose early to go unto Saul in the morning, that Saul was come to the morning, that Saul was come to Carmel, and set up for himself a high place, and went down to Gilgal. And the Syrians came to Saul, and Saul offered a burnt-offering unto Jehovah, out of the spoil which he had brought out from Amalek.
And as much as this was not without an oath, ( for they have become priests without an oath;)
And Rahab the harlot, the harlot, was not slain with them that had committed the commandment of God, because she had brought into her house in peace those that sent to see the land.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, when they were at Haran.
But one testified, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in Gibeah: and they sanctified, and his son, and his son, and they bare them, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
By faith, Enoch was taken away, so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God hath interpreted to him: for he hath testified given unto him that he had been well-pleasing unto God.
And I prayed for this child; and Jehovah hath given me my prayer which I asked of him.
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power to weep.
and deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and of all the enemies that afflicted you; and I cast them out at your coming in, and gave you their land.
And David walked himself in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the rod of thy kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
And all the inhabitants of Shechem and all of the Berites came together, and went and made Abimelech their king by the oak of the pillar in Shechem.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to Abelthah out of the land of Ahitub.
Wherefore if there be any comfort in Christ, if any man love of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any love and compassion,
And when Israel sowed seed, the Midianites, Amalek, and the people of the east, would come up against them.
( for the priests were made without an oath; but this by a oath by him that said unto him, Jehovah sware, and will not repent, thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek:)
And the one band turned the way of Beth-horon, and the one band turned the way of the border which looketh upon the valley of the Zeboim, toward the wilderness.
And the congregation sent out twelve thousand men of the mighty men, and charged them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women and the children.
Far be it from me, by Jehovah, from putting forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah: and now, take, I pray thee, the spear that is at his head, and let us go away.
And when he saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once; for he hath showed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
In a very little time he that cometh shall come, he shall not be slack.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to Beth-el, and enquired of God, saying, Who shall go up first for the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go first.
Where there is no forgiveness, there is no more offering for sin.
But the Spirit of Jehovah was kindled; and the voice of his horn gathered together after him.
And now I know that thou shalt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be made strong under thy hand.
And they said, Arise, and let us go against us; for we have seen the land, and it is very good: why do thou do nothing? slack not thou, and take the land for thy inheritance.
And there went out a garrison of the Philistines to the passage of Michmas.
But I wish you to know, brethren, that the things wherein I am turned out rather to the end of the gospel,
And there was nothing left by them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, nor spoil nor aught that they had taken: David brought all back.
And Saul saw it, and understood that Jehovah was with David. And Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for I hear of your evil doings from all this people.
And he gave back the eleven hundred shekels of silver unto his mother; and his mother said, I have made the silver holy unto Jehovah from me for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken to the voice of the people, all that they shall say unto thee: they have not rejected thee; but they have rejected me, that they should not reign over them.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, that he did for Israel.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah gave the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hand; and they smote ten thousand men at Rimmon.
And Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
All the saints salute you, especially those that are of Caesar's house.
And Jehu arose, and followed his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that told my wife? And he said, I am.
And Jesse took an ass with bread, and a bottle of wine and a kid, and sent by David his son to Saul.
And as they went up the going up to the city, they met maidens going out to draw water; and they said unto them, Is the seer here?
And I will shoot three arrows upon it, and will shoot as if I had received myself.
Then Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of the seer?
and being perfected, and became unto all them that obey him, the Prince of eternal salvation.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of their enemies, into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of their enemies round about, that they might not stand before them.
Saying, Except I bless thee, I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee.
For this man was accounted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he that built the house more honor than the house.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a forest.
And he had a son named Saul, a beloved man, and a beloved man; and there was none that seeth the children of Israel: he was his head by a head than any other of the people.
Now that which was made bare to be brought to nought the captivity of the captivity, even the things that have been created, that the things which are not shaken may remain.
And it came to pass, when Israel was planted, that the Midianites and the Amalekites and the inhabitants of the east came up against them;
For the same cause ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And the five rulers of the Philistines saw it, and returned to Ekron that same day.
And they passed through the Red Sea as though it had been dried up, and the Egyptians were troubled when they were seeking to do the same.
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
that we may say boldly, Jehovah is a helper to me, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
Finally, brethren, what things are true, whatsoever things are good, whatsoever things are good, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are pleasing, whatsoever things are pleasing, if there be any excellent thing, and if any be praised, think of these things.
And it came to pass, when she urged him daily with her words, and urged him, so that his soul was grieved unto death.
But the people took of their possessions, sheep and oxen, the principal of the matters of the curse, to make an offering of them unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and rebel not against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king that hath reigned over you shall continue after Jehovah your God.
And it came to pass, that all that fell that day of Benjamin were five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword: all these men were mighty men.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And the six hundred men took the priest, and the things which we spake before, and came unto a people that was quiet and quiet, and smote them with the edge of the sword; and the city was burned with fire.
For where a covenant is, there must be of necessity the death of the covenants.
And there was a judge of Israel for Israel six years: and Abel the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
And Tilgath-pilneser called together Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and there went up ten thousand men, and Deborah went up with him.
Swear therefore now unto me by Jehovah, that thou shalt not destroy my seed after me, neither shall thou destroy my name out of my father's house.
Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Naphtali, or of the Canaanites; so the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became subject to taskwork.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be my father and the priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver for the days, and a token of garments, and thy food. And the Levite went.
that night the Lord said unto him, Take a bullock of thy father's, and another bullock of seven years; and thou shalt destroy the altar of Baal, which is thy father's, and cut down the Asherah that is round about the altar.
And she fell upon his feet, and said, Avenge me, my lord, my lord; let thy servant speak unto thee, and hear the words of thy servant.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, O Hanun, why weepest thou? why eat thou not? why is thy heart grieved? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
For ye have need of patience, that the will of God having done, ye may receive the promise.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And he went from year to year in Shiloh unto Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all these places.
And Samuel told him all the words, and did not hide them from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which is good in his sight.
And the Spirit of Jehovah blew upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men, and took their garments from them, and gave it to the men that spake to him. Then he returned, and returned to his father's house.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy word cometh, we shall do thee honor?
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father rebuked the people with an oath, saying, Cursed is the man that eateth bread to-day. And the people were faint.
So he brought the people down to the water; and the Lord said to the banquet, Put on one side, and eat the water with their tongues like a dog; and likewise, all them that handle their knees unto the water, and drink.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Jehovah be our witness: we will certainly do as thou sayest.
Behold, the days are coming, and I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that an old man is not in thy house.
Then Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak unto David in secret, saying, Behold, the king is pleased with thee, and all his servants love thee: therefore be the king's son king.
And the graven image was stayed with them all the time that the house of God was at Shiloh. In those days there was no king in Israel.
But, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath withheld me from trouble thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, there was not left the Carmelite by the morning light any male.
And Saul called for all the people to go down to the host of Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto Shebna, Behold, people come down from the tops of the mountains. And said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains like men.
Therefore are ye better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, king of Moab? did he contend with Israel, or fought against them?
And when he had finished prophesy, he went to the high place.
For we are partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence unto the end:
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
who, being in the form of God, reckon not with God a thing to be taken.
And David said, What have I now done? was it not laid upon me?
And Saul said, Proclaim yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me here every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
Then he went to Ramah. And when he came to the great pit which was in Zoar, he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are in Ramah.
Have they not taken up? have they not divided the prey, to every man a damsel or two; to Sisera a prey of divers colors, a prey of divers work, of divers colours, and of divers colours, on both sides, to meet for the neck of them that take the spoil?
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred virgins, that knew no man by lying with any male: and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
O Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, when thou sittest out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, the skies also cast water.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou of my name, seeing that it is unsearchable?
but to the prophetess he gave one portion with sorrow, because he loved a prophetess; and the Lord had shut up her womb.
having our eyes set upon Jesus, the lead and the end of our faith, who passed through the cross of the cross, not despise for the shame, because of the joy which was before him, and who hath already stood at the right hand of God's throne.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and a evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
And they went out of the porch, and shut the door of the upper chamber, and shut them up behind him.
Then said Saul, Come hither, all ye princes of the people, that we may find out what the sin is this day.
Behold, this day thy eyes have seen that Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand in the cave, and I thought to slay thee; but mine eye hath spared thee; for I said, I will not put out my hand against my lord, for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Samuel judges Israel all the days of his life.
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
And there was great fear in the tents, and in the field, and in all the men of the guard, and the pursuers trembled; and the earth was moved with a great rushing, and there was a fear as of God.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them, by whom it is tilled, shall be blessed from God.
This thing is not good which thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the anointed of Jehovah: and now, behold, where the king's spear is, and the water that was at his head.
Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle, and assembled in Succoth of Judah, and encamped between Succoth and Azekah, the border of the Arabah.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no reward befall thee for this thing.
And Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul mustered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
And Achan said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with strength: and the house fell upon the nobles, and upon all the people that were therein. And the dead that he slew in his death, were more than those whom he had slain in his life.
And Samuel told the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote it in the book, and laid it before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I will also go with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
But we are persuaded of you, dearly beloved, better things, and given to salvation, even if we speak thus.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the people of Shechem and the house of Millo; and let fire come out of the people of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
And having confidence of this, I know that I shall abide and abide with you all, for your progress and joy in faith.
And he went out, and his servants came: and, behold, he saw the doors of the upper chamber, and they said, He shall only cover his feet in the room of the wall.
And after a few days David rose up, and went with the men that were under him, and he slew of the Philistines two hundred men, and brought their course, and numbered them unto the king, that he might be his son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And as for me, I will never go against the commandment of the Lord, that I pray unto you: but I will teach thee the good and the right way.
And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David exacted him from before him.
And God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: what was I able to do with thee? And their anger was troubled toward him, when he had said.
Now Naaman was very old, and he heard all that his sons were doing unto all Israel, and that they had wives with the women that ministered at the door of the tent of meeting.
And he had a great priest over the house of God.
Then Naaman answered and said, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel grant your request that ye have asked of him.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow; and there was no man of them that departed from thence, except four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
For let this mind be in you which in Christ Jesus:
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter for a wife.
And they embraced the man. And the son in law tarried in the house of his father in law three days, eating with him, and drinking.
And Samuel said, Jehovah hath smitten the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it unto thy neighbor that is better than thee.
And the Philistines were subdued, and they stopped coming within the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Atad; but they found not; and they passed through the land of Succoth, and they were not there; and they passed through the land of Benjamin, and they found not.
And they came unto their brethren unto Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brethren said unto them, What say ye?
Now these are the nations which Jehovah hath left, to try Israel by them, even as many as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
And he numbered them in Hashabiah; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be my father and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver a year, a set of garments, and thy food. And the Levite went with him.
And we will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred thousand, and ten thousand, and ten thousand, to bring provision unto the people, to bring them to the divisions, to bring them to Gibeah of Benjamin, for all their folly.
And Samuel said, Why dost thou ask me, seeing that God is departed from thee, and is on the side of him that is against thee?
And the children of Benjamin thought, saying, They were smitten before us as heretofore. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee and take them out of the city into the highway.
Of the hospitality be not forgotten: for through this ignorance they have made the angels.
And Deborah, a prophetess, a prophetess's wife, condemned Israel at that time.
Saul was a year old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years over Israel.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
In the beginning, O Jehovah, hast found the earth, And the works of thy hands are the heavens.
She looketh down through the window, and the mother of Sisera cried out through the lattice, Why is his chariot abiding in coming? why should the hoof smite his chariot?
For he taketh not the life of angels, but that of the seed of Abraham.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David be with me; for he is good to me.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: but thou shalt warn them, and show them the way of the king, who shall rule over them.
And the Philistines took hold of him, and took away his eyes, and brought him to Gaza: and they bound him with bronze fetters, and he became the ground in the prison.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Sela. And he said, I brought thee out of Egypt, and led thee into the land which I sware unto thy fathers; and I said, My covenant with thee shall never be broken by me:
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord persecute his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in my hand?
And Saul said, Cast betwixt me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
Ye are not yet rebellious unto blood, fighting against sin.
And Agag the king of Amalek died; but he smote all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Samuel said, Though thou be small in thine eyes, are thou not the head of the tribes of Israel? Jehovah hath anointed thee king over Israel.
And all the mighty men arose, and walked all the night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Beth-shemesh; and they came to Jabesh Gilead, and burned them there.
Why hast thou stayed between the months, To hear the firings of the herds? For the courses of Reuben, the multitude of heart!
And the Philistines said, I have defied the bands of Israel this day: give me a man, and he will fight with me with my hand.
And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And they came down from the high place into the city, and talked with Saul on the roof.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim, in Judah: therefore they called that place the place of Dan, until this day; behold, behind Kiriath-jearim.
Then said Abishai unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day. Now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even to the earth once, and I will not smite him the second time.
And it came to pass by faith Joseph called that the children of Israel went forth, and commanded his bones.
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.
Now the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah; and they were judges in Beer-sheba.
And Jotham fled, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, for the fear of Abimelech his brother.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem; and the elders of the city trembled to meet him, and said, Is thy coming peace?
And roughly said unto her, If thou goest with me, I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And there was a man of Benjamin named Kish, the son of Imri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Kolaiah, a Benjamite, a man of valor.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, be sure that evil is determined by him.
But what? so that by all means, or by the truth, or by the truth, Christ is preached: in this also I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
For this is the covenant that I will covenant to the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah, that he that giveth my laws into their heart, I will write them also upon their hearts; and I will be unto them for God, and they shall be my people.
For I will be merciful unto their iniquity, and their sins and their abominations will I remember no more.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah, who made Moses and Aaron, and brought our fathers out of the land of Egypt.
Wherefore he ought to be made like unto brethren, that he might be a gracious and faithful chief priest, which told God, to make the propitiation for the sins of the people;
They that were full have hired themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceaseth; so that the barren man is born seven; and she that hath many children waxed feeble.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And Saul sought to smite with the javelin by David, and through the wall, and moved himself from the face of Saul, and he smote the javelin through the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
The women had their dead given back to them alive; others suffer persecution, having no desire to go free, that they might have a good life;
For though for the time ye ought to be masters, ye have need to be taught again what are the first-fruits of the Almighty; and ye are become such as have need of milk, and not of rich food.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once, and again to my necessity.
For when ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, which are the first elements of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat.
holding the word of life, that as to be a glorying for me in Christ's day, that I run not in vain, nor laboured in vain.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice, and said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And they said, In the morning we will come out unto you; and ye shall do that which ye will do with us.
And it shall come to pass, that on the third day it shall be searched out, and ye shall go unto the place where thou stoodest in the place where thou stoodest, and thou shalt stand by the hill over there.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring the ark of God here. For the ark of God was with the children of Israel at that time.
Pray for us: for we have faith on us a good conscience, being willing to communicate in all things.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber, and made them sit in the chief place among those that were bidden, who were about thirty persons.
And they said unto him, Hold silent; put thy hand upon thy mouth, and come with us, and be with us, and be for us a father and a priest. Is it better a priest for a house of one man, or being a priest for a tribe of Israel?
And it came to pass, when David had ended speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, David my son? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And he sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name with peace.
And the meal-offering took up the thigh, and that which was upon it, and set before Saul: and he said, Behold, that which is left, set before thee, eat; for it is kept for thee for this appointed time, saying, I have called the people. And Saul ate with Samuel on that day.
There was a young man from Bethlehem in Judah, from the family of Judah; he was a Levite, and dwelt as a sojourner there.
And the priest said, The sword of the city of the Philistines, whom thou hast smitten in the valley of Elah, is lying in a napkin at the back of the ephod: take that, if thou wilt, for there is no other sword here. And David said, There is no other sword like that; give it unto me.
Thus the Lord do so and much more to Jonathan: but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And it came to pass from the day that the ark of Jehovah dwelt in Kiriath-jearim, for it was now the twentieth year), and all the house of Israel rested after Jehovah.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and she said, He is sick.
that ye may approve the things that are excellent, that ye may be pure and without offence unto the day of Christ;
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah will judge me against thee; but my hand shall not rise up against thee.
And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away; and David delivered his two wives.
And all the people of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king by the decree of the field that is in Shechem.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, I beseech thee, I pray thee, to my request, and make a kid for thee.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.
Wherefore he ought to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a gracious and faithful chief priest in the things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people.
And he numbered them in Hashabiah: and there were of the children of Israel three hundred thousand; and of the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the man went into the land of Heth, and built a city, and called it Luz: this is the name thereof unto this day.
Then said the woman, Who shall I let thee see? And he said, Make Samuel come up for me.
And they made their heart glad: and, behold, men of the city, men, the sons of Belial, went round about the house, and beat the door. And they spake unto the old man, the master of the house, saying, Bring out the man that came into thy house, and we know him.
And he went out of the city of Beth-Bethlehem Judah, and looking for him to dwell; and he went on his journey to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what hast thou done? And Jonathan told him, and said, I will surely taste with the end of the rod that is in my hand a little honey: behold, I die.
And Jesse called for Abinadab, and brought him before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this man.
Wherefore, then, let us receive a kingdom not to be moved, grace, wherewith we worship with fear and fear.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: because of the Midianites the children of Israel made for themselves the holes that are in the mountains, and the holes, and the strongholds.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent throughout the border of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came forth as one man.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who can tell me? or what thy father shall answer thee?
and all that were in trouble and in oppression, and under affliction of mind gathered themselves unto him: and he was their prince, and there were with him about four hundred men.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath surely heard that Saul seeketh to come unto Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And Samuel took a stone, and put it between Mizpah and beat it, and called it, and said, Behold, Jehovah hath helped us.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, verily manifold and Zalmunna, with whom ye have reproached me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are weary?
saying, Blessed I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee.
For which cause God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name that is above all names:
And the people grieved Benjamin because Jehovah had made the tribes of Israel feeble.
And the lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice to shear their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered the enemy into our hand.
but to Hanun he gave a double portion; for Hanun loved, but Jehovah bare her womb.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers, and they spoiled them; and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about; and they could not stand before their enemies.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; wherefore I will deliver you no more.
And David came to the two hundred men, which were so sick that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to dwell in the valley, or to go out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and David came near unto the people, and he saluted them.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new cords that never were taken, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among thy brethren 'daughters, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Achan the son said to his father, Get her for me; for she will please me well.
And Samuel took a male lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah. And Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
For those that are in Aroer, for a moth, and for them that is in Eshtemoa,
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And David said unto Ahijah, If now I have found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Nethaniah fled to David, that he went down to the ephod in his hand.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou didst utterly hate her; therefore I gave her to thy neighbor: is not her younger sister more than she? let her, I pray thee, be thine for her.
But the people, the men of Israel, took courage again, and set them in order, and took up the same office as the first day.
As he turned his shoulder to depart from Samuel, God changed his heart: and all these signs were fulfilled in that day.
And Achan said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed down with all his might: and the house fell upon the nobles, and upon all the people that were therein. And the dead that he died in his death were more than they that he slew in his life.
Are they not all the spirits of bondage, for ministration, being sent forth for those to inherit salvation?
But he that reapeth not from them received the tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And Jehovah will render unto every man his righteousness and his truth; for Jehovah delivered thee into my hand this day, and I would not stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And the trees said unto the vine, Come thou and reign over us.
For when ye ought to be teachers, ye have need to teach you what the elements of the beginning of the prophecy of God, and are such as have need of milk, not of the best bread.
And Saul drew near to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me now, where is the house of the seer?
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered, I came into Gibeah of Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge in the night.
And David came to Nob to Abimelech, and Abimelech came to meet David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And he had forty sons, and thirty sons' sons, who rode upon seventy ass, and he reigned eight years.
If ye then have dealt truly and righteously with rebellion and his house, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you.
And the men of Israel and Judah arose, and cried out, and went after the Philistines as far as Gath, and the gates of Ekron; and the Philistines fell down by the way of Eway, from the way to Jahaz, and to Ekron, and to Ekron.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What is done to the man that smote this of this of the Philistines, and hath turned away reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised master, that he hath reproached the way of the living God?
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And David departed from thence, and went into the den of Adullam: and when his brethren, and all his father's house's house, they went down thither unto him.
And they sent, and gathered all the nobles of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again into its own place, that it may not kill us, and our people: for there was a alarm throughout the city: for the hand of God was very heavy there.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long shall thou weep for Saul, seeing that I have set him from his place as king over Israel? take oil in thy pitcher, and go; I will send thee unto Jesse the Beth-lehemite: for I have set a king among his sons.
Hearken unto your own selves, and be subject unto them: for they watch as to give an account of your souls; that they may do this with joy, and not with sorrow: for this is not expedient for you.
And David fled, and departed; and he came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went and dwelt in Ramah.
So therefore this gift which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, may it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
So they took the vessels of the people, and their horns out of their hand, and sent them away, every man to his tent, keeping only three hundred; and the tents of Midian were lower in the valley.
And it was said unto the Gatch, The son of Magdala is here. And they compassed him all the day at the gate of the city; but at the night they rested, saying, When the day cometh we shall kill him.
But ye have well done, that ye have laboured with my affliction.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Japhlet which he sent him.
And they went up to the city: and as they came in the midst of the city, behold, Samuel went out toward them, to go up to the high place.
Now thou shalt command thy servants that are here before thee, and thou shalt seek a man that is a sorceress on a instrument of music: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, he shall make intercession for thee on his weapons, and thou shalt prosper.
But the lad knew not anything of this: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
And Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
and others also over the trial of the kings and of serpents, and of bands and of bonds.
And no man shall hearken unto you in this matter: but the portion of him that went down to the battle and of him that dwelt at the vessels, and they shall divide themselves alike.
And Sheva the son said unto her, If they bind me with seven green things that were not dry, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
For if he were on the earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there are the priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have cast him away from king over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Gilonite; for I have nourished me king among his sons.
and that all this congregation may know that Jehovah doth not save with sword and spear: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
Now no correction for the present is made a joy, but grievous: but afterward it shall yield the good fruit of righteousness unto them that are practised thereby.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched with the trial of our infirmities: but he that hath been in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and a evil spirit from Jehovah, vexed him.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
( of whom the world was not worthy,) as they were dispersed in the deserts and the mountains, and dens, and dens of the earth.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Atharim, to Gittaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel ministered, saying,
And a man of God came to Ish-bosheth, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly appear unto thy father's house, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
And all that saw it said, There is no more ever since the children of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider it, and consider it, and speak.
And David came to the two hundred men, who were so sick that they could not follow David, whom they had made to dwell in the valley, and went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all your heart, then put away the strange gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they rose up against him, and they fought against him; and they fought against him, and smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Why weepest thou? and why eat thou not? And why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
For Jesus entered not into the most way made with hands, the pattern of the true: but into heaven itself, that he may appear now before God for us.
For they had with their weapons' houses, and with their engraving, and with their turbans, and with cornets, and with axes, and with axes, and with axes of iron.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and with Jonathan his son had them.
And it came to pass on the day that Elkanah, that Elkanah he would give portions unto his wife, and to all her sons and daughters.
So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the rest of Israel every man unto his tent, and retained them three hundred men: and the host of Midian was under the valley under the valley.
And now, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have asked; and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day: and the battle passed over unto Beth-aven.
But, my beloved, we have confidence for you, and is nearer to salvation; if we speak thus.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God which he commanded thee: for then would Jehovah have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And when they came down from the high place to the city, he spake with Saul on the roof.
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them; but he drew not his sword: for he was afraid, being yet yet a child.
but he sware by him that said unto him, The Lord hath sworn, and repent not, Thou art a priest for ever.
Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee evil, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, O son. And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as time by time, and I will shake myself. But he knew not that Jehovah had turned away from him.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What mean the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? and they perceived that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And Saul heard that David was uncovered, and the men that were with him. Now Saul sat in Gibeah under the pipe, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood by him.
And they found it, namely, that they might make a attack on him; and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
And it came to pass after him, when he was the judge of Israel: and he judged Israel ten years.
And his mother's brethren spake concerning him in the audience of all the masters of Shechem, all these words: and their heart pursued after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
But David pursued, he, and four hundred men, for two hundred abiding, that being wearied could not pass over the valley of the valley.
And it came to pass, when it was that, when the interpretation of the dream and the interpretation thereof, he bowed down and returned to the camp of Israel; and he said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given the camp of Midian into your hand.
And by reason of this he ought, as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins.
Again, he esteemeth a certain day, saying in David, To morrow long time long time; as it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.
And they told to spy out a son of Cushan, that they should go up unto mount Tabor.
And as to the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire;
And the children of Dan sent out of the number of their families five men from Zorah and Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, and spy the land. And they went to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah; and they lodged there.
And they did so in this manner, and took two kine, that had the children of rams, and made them ready to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months. And she went with her companions, and mourning her virginity upon the mountains.
And the men of Israel sware in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.
But more than all reasoning, the inferior is blessed by the better.
And God, having spoken in many parts, and many things before the prophets in the prophets,
Not that I speak in want: for I have learned, in all that I am, it shall be content.
and every one that was in distress, and every one that owed, and every man that was grieved, gathered themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
And that same night, Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down into the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And he said unto her, Give me a little water to drink; for I thirst. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long save the king.
even the same fight, such as ye saw in me, and now hear of me.
Wherefore by the baptism of the dead God is able to raise up, from whence he hath received a figure.
And Samuel brought unto him all the tribes of Israel, and the lot fell upon the tribe of Benjamin.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
And Moses said, Behold, I am terrible, and trembling.
And he said unto the lad, Go and fetch my bow from my bow. And the lad ran, and shot down the arrow.
Jehovah forbid that I should stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed. But now, take, I pray thee, the spear that is at his head, and let us go.
And the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
And it came to pass after this, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the skirt which was upon Saul.
And it came to pass on the second day of the new moon, that David's place was looked after. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why hath the son of Jesse come in, either yesterday or this day?
to whom, though he was in the likeness of God, it thought not to take himself to be like God;
And Menahem, and the three hundred men that were with him, went into the beginning of the camp, at the beginning of the night, and the watchmen trembled, and began to sound their trumpets, and to clap the flagons one against another.
By faith he left Egypt behind, not being afraid of the wrath of the king; for though he saw the vision, he had endured.
Therefore Jehovah forsook those nations, without driving them hastily, neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
And the priests' custom with the people, when any man sacrificed a sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, when the flesh was boiled, with a skin ring of three things in his hand;
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: the men have spared the best of the sheep and the cattle, that they may sacrifice unto Jehovah your God; but the rest we have utterly destroyed.
Then said the evil and evil men among them that went with David, saying, Because they have not walked with us, we will give them nothing of the substance which we have returned, but to every man his wife and his children, that he may carry them and go.
And when the right country went up to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid with us in the fortresses of the forest, in the forest, in the height of Zoan, which is in the south of the desolate place?
And David came to Nob, to Abimelech the priest, and Ahimelech troubled David, and said unto him, Why art thou thyself alone, and no man with thee?
And now his hair began to grow again.
And he changed his way before them, and made it as though he was his head, and smote the gate of the city, and cast down the waters out of his mouth.
But Saul, and they, and all the children of Israel, were in the valley 'to fight against the Philistines.
And Samuel told the people the ordinances of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And they of Beth-shemesh reaped their wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And she said unto him, I will go with thee; but at this time the salvation shall not be heard to thee, because she shall be delivered into the hand of a woman. And it came to pass, that he arose, and went with Bera.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Therefore we turn again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And David arose again; and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote among them a great smiting, and they fled from his face.
of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing.
And so it was, when Israel did sow, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east, even they came up against them;
And his friend answered him, and said, This can not be any thing but the sword of the slain on the son of Jehoash a man of Israel: God hath given Midian and all the camp into his hand.
And she made him sleep upon her knees, and called a man, and she caused him to shave off the locks of his head; and she began to prevail against him, and his strength went from him.
And Enoch was taken up, so that he did not suffer death, and was not found, because God took him up: for before his departure, he was approved, as he pleased God.
For if Joshua had made them rest, he would not have spoken of another day after these things.
Now therefore, if ye have done in truth and in sincerity, ye have made Abimelech king: and if ye have done good with banishment and with his house; and if ye have done according to the work of his hands,
And it came to pass, when their heart rejoiced, that they said, Call the son for us to mock us. And they called the son of bondage, and mocked them; and they set him between the pillars.
So all the men of Israel gathered themselves together against the city, even as one man.
So the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and fled every man to his tent, for the slaughter was very great: and thirty thousand footmen fell from Israel.
and Jabez as far as Beth-hoglah, and the border of Abel the border of Abel. And the men of Israel shouted from Naphtali and Asher, and from all Manasseh pursued after Midian.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
But the God of peace, who brought again from the dead of our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, in the power of the blood of eternal covenant,
Speak, ye that ride upon fair asses, and sit in judgment, and walk in the way.
And, behold, a old man is come from his work from the field in the evening, and the man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he a sojourner in Gibeah, and the men of the place of the Gileadites.
For patience is necessary for you; that, doing the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
And Abimelech pursued him, and fled before him: and many fell slain, even unto the entrance of the gate.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name of it Luz, that is the name thereof unto this day.
And all that generation were gathered unto their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, which knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
And Jonathan heard the house of David, and Jehovah sought from the hand of the enemies of David.
and did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? and did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel?
And he said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon: and I called you to help me, and ye would not do it.
And behold, Saul came after the cattle out of the field; and Saul said, What mean the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Now all chastisement for the present is not to bring with it joy, but sorrow: but afterward it shall yield, to them that are practised by it, the increase of the righteousness of righteousness.
And she arose, and fell upon the ground, and said, Behold, I am ready to be a handmaid, and washed the feet of the servants of my lord.
Though men rise up to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul, yet the soul of my lord shall be bound in the den of life with Jehovah your God: he will smite out the souls of your enemies, as from the hollow of a sling.
And the children of Benjamin went out from Gibeah, and smote on that day twenty and two thousand men of Israel to the ground.
and not overcome by the adversary, which is to them a derision of destruction, but of your salvation, and that of God.
As he saith in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
Now faith is the substance of things to be hope for the things which are not seen.
So Saul went up from the Philistines: and the Philistines went up to their own place.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice; and afterward they eat that are bidden; and now go up; for this very day shall ye find him.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of thee, which were taken from thee, and about which thou didst speak and speak of in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah.
And upon the same hand, by reproach and afflictions, were made a spectacle; and on the other, they became friends of them that were in such manner.
Thus do Jehovah do so, and much more to Jonathan: should it please my father to do thee evil, then I will arise thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
So Shema the son went, and fetched three hundred the foxes, and some sticks of wood; and he put the oxen tail to tail with a stick between every two tails;
that we may be like all the nations; and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and get our wars.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, and sister, the son of the freewoman, because he took his wife, and gave her to him. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
( in the former times in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, and let us go to the seer; for he that is called a prophet was before him a seer.)
even though the men were very good to us, we did not hurt, neither did we exact all the days, we went about with them, while we were in the field.
And it came to pass, when they came back after David, that David returned from smiting the Philistines, that the women went out of all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet king Saul with timbrels, with joy, and with stringed instruments.
And if they say thus, Come up to us, and we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be the sign unto us.
And when Samuel arose early in the morning to meet Saul, and Samuel was told, saying, Saul is gone into Carmel, and, behold, he set up a monument for himself. And he turned and passed over, and went down to Gilgal.
And who would hearken unto thee in this matter? for as the portion of him that went down into the battle, so shall be the portion of him that remained with goods.
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses.
But now they desire a good land, that is to say, For one in heaven; and it is no shame to God to be called their God; for he hath prepared a city for them.
And for forty years the land had peace, until the death of Othniel, the son of Kenaz.
and said unto him, Thus saith sharply, Israel took not the land of Moab, and the land of the children of Ammon,
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
And they were far off from the house of Micah: and the men that were near the house of Micah were called together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And Jehoash said unto all that stood against him, Wilt ye contend for Baal? shall thou deliver him? he that striveth for him shall be put to death by the morning: if he be a god, let him contend for himself for his altar.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
And as they cried unto the children of Dan, they turned their faces, and said to Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
and said, Let me now go, for we have a family in the city; and my brother himself hath commanded me to be there; and now, if I have found favor in thy sight, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. He hath not come to the king's table.
He also saith, Their sins and their transgressions I will not remember any more.
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, as the feast of a king; and the heart of the spirit of the spirit was merry within him, because he was drunken to excess; so she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall fear him; And upon them shall he thunder in the heavens; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he shall give strength to his king, and shall exalt the horn of his Christ.
And it shall come to pass, when she shall make a feast of prayer before Jehovah, that she would watch her mouth.
And Samuel said, As thy sword is bereaved women, so thy mother shall be bereaved than women. And Samuel rent him in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
This day, and Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will slay thee, and take away thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
Him therefore I hope to send straightway, as soon as I shall see how it goeth with me.
And Saul said, Come near, all ye rulers of the people, and let us arise from God, and behold, in whom is this sin this day.
And Saul sent for the people, and had numbered of them, even two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armour in his tent.
All my joy, that ye may be in agreement, having ye also love in spirit, having one purpose.
For to Thessalonica you sent once, and again for my use.
According as he was not anointed, as he hath made a vow,
And when Saul saw David going out to meet the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, whose son is this young man, Abner? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
And the man arose, he, and his concubine, and his young man, and his young man, and his father 'father-in-law, said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, the day is fallen toward even; behold, the time of the day is stayed at the evening: behold, the time of the day shall be stayed here, and let thy heart be glad, and ye shall arise early to to-morrow for thy journey, and go into thy tent.
And Achan the son said, With a great tongue of an ass, a ass upon asses, I have smitten a thousand man with a sack of the ass.
And another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and another company turned to the way of the border that looketh to the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jaws of his hand out of his hand, and called that place Baal-perazim.
And terrible shall fall into the hands of a living God.
And they possessed all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kings that afflict thee.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the eternal Spirit hath offered himself unspotted unto God, cleanse thy conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
then it shall be, that, when I came forth out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I returned unto peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be unto Jehovah, or I will offer it for a burnt-offering.
that by two times table, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have the mighty comfort, who fled for the hope to keep the hope set before us.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me, and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
but the meat of the week is pure, who, because of necessity, have their mind to discern good and evil.
And Abimelech came to the tower of the tower, and besieged it, and drew near unto the door of the tower, for the counsel of the singers.
And he removed a fugitive in the land of the covenant as a sojourner, and a sojourner with Isaac and Jacob, who had a portion with him.
And the people shook in the battle, and the people took oxen, and sheep, and oxen, and slew them there on the ground, and ate it, and ate the flesh with the blood.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And a man of Benjamin ran out of the ranks, and came into Shiloh; on that day, and his clothes rent, and earth upon his head.
Now as Zebah and Zalmunna were in Carchemish, and their armies with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the host of the children of the east; for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And when the Spirit of God fell upon Saul, when he heard these words, he was very wroth.
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city; and thither fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it unto them, and gat them up to the top of the tower.
And the princes of Issachar were with thah; and the captains of Issachar and the drove thereof; he was cast into the valley; for Reuben had many thoughts of heart.
And when she was on the point of death, they that stood about her said unto her, Fear not, for thou hast borne a son: she answered them not, nor hearkened unto them.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he said, Because this nation transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice,
Ye had no delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.
And Abishai called unto David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou art just, and good in mine sight shall go out, and thy coming in, with me in the camp: for I have not found thee evil from the day of thy coming in unto me unto this day; but thou art not good in the sight of the princes.
And the Philistines sent unto the priests, and they that were wise-hearted, and said unto them, What shall we do to the ark of Jehovah? how shall we send it away to its place?
and concerning the angels he saith, He that maketh his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire;
And it shall come to pass, if it be yet a very vision, if the likeness of Melchizedek arise, there shall be another priest,
Oh would that this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Take thee thy army, and come out.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember what Amalek did unto Israel, how he set himself against him on the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And David pursued, he, and four hundred men, for two hundred numbered, that were able to go over the brook, or to go over the brook.
Therefore hear thou also the voice of thy handmaid, and set me before thee a morsel of bread, and eat so that thou mayest have strength in thee when thou goest on thy way.
And now return, and go in peace, lest thou displease the lords of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are all thy sons here? And he said, There is yet the young man, and he is looking after the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and bring him hither; for we will not stand down till he is here.
And it came to pass, when their heart were merry, that they said, Call for Shema, that he may make us sport. And they called for Shema the son out of the house of bondage, and he played before them; and they set him between the pillars.
and I lay hold upon my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her into all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have done wickedness and folly in Israel.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of feasting, whose name was named.
I will not again drive out from among them of the nations which Joshua left when he died;
And he said unto them, Let me ask of you a petition, and give me every man the ring of his prey; for they have rings of gold, for they are the Ishmeelites.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Tekoa, and he rent the lion, as he had torn a kid in pieces, having nothing at all in his hand: and he would not tell this unto his father and to his mother.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man into his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
So do God to the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that belongeth to him by the morning light so much as one that lateth upon a wall.
And the vine said unto them, Have I ceased from my new wine, which is glad gods and men, that I have gone to wander over the trees?
Women received their dead raised again again: but others were grown, not given deliverance, that they might find a better resurrection.
Now therefore thou, and the people that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field;
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ: to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the officers and officers.
and thou shalt deal kindly unto thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into the covenant of Jehovah; and if there be iniquity in me, put me me to death; and to thy father, why do thou bring me?
And there is no man that hated him that hated not.
And they went through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but came not in the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Let us keep the witness of our hope strong and terrible; for he is faithful that hath spoken:
They chose new gods; then was they war in the gates: Was there a shield or spear found among forty thousand in Israel?
Zebulun drove not out the inhabitants of Naphtali, nor the inhabitants of fifty men; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became subject to tasklabor.
And Saul was very angry, and this thing was evil in his sight; and he said, They have given unto David ten thousands; and they have given me the thousands, and the kingdom only to him.
They answered and said unto him, The Lord who heareth these things, he is a witness, and a witness that we will do as we have promised.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
And he said unto her, If they bind me with thick bands, new ones, by which work hath not been done, then I am weak, and be as one of man's race.
But he whose genealogy is not counted from them received tithes from Abraham, and blessed him that hath the promises.
For the women to go year by year mourning for the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in every year.
Now ye also know, that in the beginning of the gospel, that at the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church was made with me in the matter of giving, and receiving only ye alone,
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah; they judged in Beer-sheba.
What am I to say? For there would not be time to give the sect of riot in, Barpers, and Sheva, of whom David and Samuel and Samuel and the prophets:
If thy father sinneth me at all, then say, Behold, I pray thee, let me ask me that he would run to Bethlehem his city; for it is the offering of a year offering for all the family.
For if we sin fully after the knowledge of the truth, there is now left no sacrifice for sins:
And he said unto them, When the Lord shall have delivered butter and a man into my hands, I will thresh your flesh with thorns and thorns.
And when David was gone over to the other side, and stood on the top of the hill afar off, and a good space was between them;
And Samuel said, What is this little, that I hear in mine ears, and the cattle that I hear?
Yea, though he was a son, he learned that which he had suffered;
Then he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him: and it was so, because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
For God did not subject unto angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
Therefore God also magnified him, and called unto him the name which is above every name.
Therefore I will not trespass against thee; but thou shalt deal against me with a violent fight against me: Jehovah be judge, and judge this day between Israel and the children of Ammon.
For if the blood of the goats and the oxen and the ashes of a young cow sprinkled upon them that defile them, for the purity of the flesh,
And the people spake unto him according to this word, saying, Thus shall it be done for the man that hath laid him away.
And he brought him down, and, behold, they were spread out over the face of all the earth, eating, and drinking, and drinking, and all the great spoil which they took out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
So they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the wilderness.
And where they are forgiven, there is no more offering for sin.
But I thought to send unto thee earnestly, my brother, and fellow-labourer, and fellow-soldier, but thy apostle, and he that hath ministered to my will.
For I will be merciful unto their iniquities, And their iniquities and their abominations will I remember no more.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul that day, that day, that day, shut before Jehovah; and his name was Achsah the Edomite, the chief of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
And his brethren, and all the house of his father's house, came down, and brought him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol, in the burying-place of his father. And he succeeded Israel twenty years.
Now therefore know, and consider what thou wilt: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household: for he is such a son of Belial, that a man can not speak unto him.
And he said unto Zebah and tried, Where are the men whom thou hast slain in Tabor? And they answered, as thou art, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
And they were a wall to us both night and day, all the while we were with them feeding the sheep.
( for the law made nothing perfect), and bringing a good hope by which we draw nigh unto God.)
And Saul was displeased by the presence of David, because Jehovah was with him, but had departed from Saul.
And Samuel did the work of Jehovah's house, and he was a child, and girded in a linen ephod.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: what hast thou seen? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods going up out of the earth.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are all thy children? And he said, There is yet the youngest man, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
And now take, and make one new cart, and two maidservants, upon which the yoke is not gone up, and ye shall bind the cattle in the cart, and caused their young men to return from after them into the house.
By faith he kept the passover, and the blood of the blood, that the destroyer of the first-born should not touch them.
Ask thy servants, and they will tell thee: now let thy servants find favor in thine eyes: for we are come in a good day, whatsoever thy hand shall find unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
For a tabernacle was prepared: the first part were the candlestick, the table, and the showbread; which is called the holy place.
And he said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth.
And Abimelech went up to the tower, and fought against it: and he came near the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
in one hand, when ye were made a spectacle both in reproach and afflictions; and on the other, when ye were partakers with them that passed through them.
And behold, as thy life was highly esteemed this day in mine eyes, so let my life be highly esteemed in the sight of Jehovah, that he may deliver me out of all trouble.
She looketh out through the window, and she cried out, the mother of Sisera, by the lattice: Wherefore is his chariot that he took to come? wherefore did the steps of his chariot lodge?
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? and why dost thou eat no bread? why is thy heart troubled? am I not more with thee than ten sons?
And it was so; for he rose up early on the next day, and pressed the wool together, and drained out the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what seemeth him good.
And horsemen made for himself a sword, and it had two mouth, a cubit the length thereof; and he girded it under his youth under his right thigh.
And the wife of Caleb's wife wept against him, and said, Behold, thou hast no love for me but hatest me; thou hast borrowed the children of my people, and have not answered me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not answered my father or my mother; shall I give it unto thee?
For this is the covenant which I will make with the inhabitants of Israel after those days: I will write my statutes, and write them in their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people:
And the number of them that held their hand unto their mouth was three hundred men; and all the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
And David said unto Ahijah, Thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Abimelech said unto David, Well, I will make thee my guard for life.
And the Philistines set in array for the battle to meet Israel; and the battle was prolonged until Israel was smitten before the Philistines, which killed about four thousand men upon the hand.
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before those other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
Blessed be thy counsel, and blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and avenge me with my hand.
and thou shalt declare this day what thou hast done good with me, how that Jehovah shut me up into thy hand, and thou didst not kill me;
And he called for David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou art upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the camp is acceptable unto me: for I have not found evil in thee from the day of thy coming unto me unto this day; but thou art not acceptable to the lords.
and they gave to Caleb Hebron, as Moses had said, and drove out the three sons of Anak from thence.
And they saved not, because it was far off from Sidon, and they had no counsel with the Syrians; and it was in the valley that is the possession of the winepress. And they built up the city, and dwelt therein.
And the Philistines came and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
It is not good that thou hast done is not good; as Jehovah liveth, surely thou shalt surely die, since thou hast not kept care over thy lord, since thou hast not been anointed by the anointed of Jehovah: therefore behold the king's spear is and the pot of water that was at hand.
But this yet once, being moved away from that which is shaken, being made, that which is not moved may remain.
So Saul also went into his house to Gibeah, and the army went with him whose heart God had touched.
Then David and his men, about six hundred, arose, and departed from Keilah, and went wheresoever they were able to go. And it was told Saul, that David had escaped from Keilah, and he forbare to go forth.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day; and now let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear, even to the ground once, and I will not do it the second time.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against the children of Ammon, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines, and against the Philistines, and against all his enemies.
If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? yet they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah, the princes of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard of it, and were afraid.
And thou shalt call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint him whom I shall show thee.
And the Philistines stood on the mount on the one side, and Israel stood upon the mount on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Jotham ran, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, because of Abimelech his brother.
And Enoch said unto Bidkar, Tell me, I pray thee, in which thy great power is, and thou shalt afflict thee.
And Achan said unto them, Let me tell you a riddle now: if ye shall tell me unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment:
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey dropped; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was not found sword and spear in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan: and there was found Absalom and Jonathan his son.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Bela, Gibeath and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two bowls of wine, and five sheep ready prepared, and five measures of roasted, and a hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred fig cakes, and laid them upon asses.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah, and Jehovah gave a voice and rain on that day: and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And the house of Joseph searched out Beth-el; the name of the city was Luz.
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
But these all, having received witness by faith, received not the promise:
If I had authority over this people, I would put Abimelech out of the way, and said to Abimelech, Make thy host strong, and come out.
And Saul went into his own house in Gibeah: and there went with him a part of the host, whose heart God had touched.
And when she had done so, she brought him with a three year old bullock, and an ephah of fine flour, and a skin full of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was very young.
and unto Jesus, a new covenant, and to the sprinkling blood that speaketh better than Abel's doing.
For we are made partakers of Christ: but if we hold the beginning of his substance unto the end.
And he said unto them, Are ye the avenger of Baal, that ye fight against him? he that is his adversary, let him die before the morning; if he be a god, let him take vengeance upon him that hath cast down his altar.
But he would not, saying, I will not eat. But his servants together with the woman made him eat, and he delivered them. And he arose from the earth, and sat on the bed.
And in the morning Jonathan went out into the field at the time that he had said unto David, and had a little lad with him.
for it was he, for whom all things, and by whom all things, in bringing many children to glory, to make perfect the prince of their salvation through the sufferings.
and did eat the good word of God, and the powers of the world.
For yet a little while, and a very little while; and he that is to come shall come, and will not tarry.
And when Jacob was dying, he blessed every of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, and leaned on the top of his staff.
And Saul clothed David with his dress, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and arrayed him with a coat.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came with him, and he smote him, as he would have torn a young goat; and he had nothing in his hand; but he told not his father, or his mother what he had done.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God, ye shall not fear the gods of the Amorite in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.
And thou shalt not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land, but cast down their altars; and ye would not hear my voice: wherefore have ye done this?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and he arose to go, and the father of the damsel said unto his son in law, Put thy heart with a piece of bread, and afterward ye go on.
And Saul began to fear David more: and Saul became David's enemy continually.
And David rose early, he and his men, to go in the morning, to return unto the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and lighted off the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground;
Then said, Samuel, my son. And Samuel answered, Here am I.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets; and Jehovah set the sword of every one against his fellow one, even through all the camp; and the camp fled unto Beth-shemesh, as well as well, unto the border of Abel, to the border of Abel.
For the law maketh men priests, who have no weakness: but the word of the oath, which was since the law, the Son, who is made perfect for evermore.
For he was accounted worthy of great glory than Moses, by how much he that built it hath more honor than the house.
And Jehovah called yet again, and Samuel. And Samuel arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called, my son; lie down again.
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my laws into their heart, and write them in their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
And Samuel went to Ramoth-gilead: but Saul went up to his house in Gibeah.
And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance; but the man was deceitful and evil in his doings; and he was bitten.
And when they went forward, and set the children, the cattle, and all that was precious,
And now hear in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever feareth and fear, let him return and turn from the hill-country of Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty-two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
And David said to Ornan the priest, The king hath commanded me to do a thing, and hath said unto me, Let no man know of the business that I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee; and I have sent the young men unto a certain place.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men that same day.
And it came to pass, that Joash the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah to Ophrah of the eighteenth.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And they were left to try Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And Jesse caused seven sons to pass by before Samuel; and Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen them.
And the children of Israel served Eglon king of Moab, eighteen years.
And Saul inquired of Jehovah, and Jehovah answered him not, either by dreams, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel: after these days, saith Jehovah, I will put my laws into their heart, I will also write them in their heart: I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
as a servant of the holy things and of the truth, which was set up by God, not by man.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab, in the height, and Eleazar his son, they sanctified to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it came to pass, that, when Jehovah shall deliver me into my hand, I will thresh thy flesh with thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
And Jesse took a ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
As he also saith, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And it came to pass, that year by year, from the time when she went up into the house of Jehovah, so it provoked her; and she wept, and did not eat.
And the voice of Jehovah spake the name of Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses's kinsman, went up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of his lot, which is by the south side of Arad; and they dwelt with him.
perfect you in every good work to do according to his will, that which is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of Lebanon, fought against the Philistines.
So they sent ten thousand men of valor, and charged them, saying, Go, and set the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead to the sword, with their wives, and with their children.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall abide in thy house, that he may be praying for, and shall offer a piece of silver, and a roll of bread, and shall say, Put me, I beseech thee, as a priest's office, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
For we have preached the gospel unto us, even as they also did: but the message they heard not them, because they were not united with them that heard it in faith.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence camest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem Judah, and I wait for a place to live.
And the king sent for Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of his father's house, who were in Nob: and they came all unto the king.
And Abimelech came near the tower, and fought against the throne; and he came near to the gate, and put fire to it.
And Saul's daughter Michal loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that afflict you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
And, behold, there came a serpent following him; and the Canaanite went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee, the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, a lying of lying, and the nail fastened in his temples.
And Jonathan called for David; and Jonathan told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him as beforetime.
So the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And the number of them that had fed water, and cast it with the hand to their mouth, was three hundred men: and all the rest of the multitude wept.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring men in the street of the city; and the old man said, Where goest thou? whence camest thou?
Then said Saul unto Samuel, I have hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, and I have walked in the way that Jehovah hath sent me: I brought yesternight the king of Amalek, and I destroyed the Amalekite.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with sticks? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the lords of the tower of Shechem had gathered.
And he was very thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great deliverance; and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
And Moses was secretly hid by his father and his mother three months after his birth, because they saw that he was a goodly child; and they feared not the king's commandment.
But there is no doubt that the less is blessed from the greatest.
For both he that sanctify, and the saints are all of one: for he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying,
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here stricken the fourth part of a shekel of silver; that will I give unto the man of God, to tell us our way.
Nay, my sons; for the report which I hear is not good to make the people of Jehovah transgress.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may give thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Swear to me, that ye shall not fall upon me yourselves.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and reaped the grapes, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is appointed for men in the things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
And one of the young men's young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our master; and he hath mocked them.
And we desire each one of you the same diligence to show, to the end of the hope of hope unto the end.
And he did so year by year, as oft as she went up to the house of Jehovah, she moved her, and she wept, and did not eat.
And she put forth her hand to the tent of the field, and her right hand to the hammer of the workman; and she bare to jealousy, and beat his head, and beat his forehead.
There was nothing lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, nor spoil, nor any thing that they had taken to them; and David brought back all.
Let us hold fast the decrees of the hope of hope ( for he that hath promised is faithful),
And their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
But Saul and the people smote him not; and they kept the choice of the flock, and the cattle, and the fat beasts, and the lambs, and whatsoever was good, not willing to put them to the curse; but every thing that was ill, and that which was bad, they put to the curse.
And he had a mitre of brass upon his head, and he was girded with a coat of brass, and the weight of five thousand shekels of brass.
So Michal let David down through the window; and he went away, and fled, and escaped.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is your way in which ye go.
who needeth not every day like the former chief priests to offer up sacrifices for his own sins, and for the sins of the people, because he hath done this once for all, when he had offered himself.
And it came to pass, when they came up out of Egypt, that Israel went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: ye make Jehovah's people to transgress.
And this was called the name of Nabal; and his wife's name was Abigail: she was a woman of understanding, and pleased eyes; but the man was cruel and evil in his ways; he was of the family of Caleb.
And Libnah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon.
And every priest shall stand daily ministering, and the same sacrifices many times, that are not able to take away sins.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man fail for him: thy servant shall go and fight with this Philistines.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and smote them: and Israel took all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitant of that land.
And it came to pass, when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, and thou saidst unto me, We shall no more; we shall have a king for our governor: for Jehovah thy God was thy king.
Let us draw near with a true heart in the fulness of faith; having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and washed our bodies with clean water.
And he stood, and called to the battle of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to the war for battle? am I not the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? but as for you, behold, a man, and let him come down to me.
and might deliver all them that were in the fear of death, all their days in bondage.
And the Philistines went and came near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this people have transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not obeyed my voice,
And Saul and Jonathan his son and the host that remained with them were in Geba of Benjamin; and the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for consider what great things he hath done for thee.
And Abimelech dwelt at Ezion-geber; and Abiram drave out and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
Having therefore received a kingdom that can not be moved, let us have grace, through which we serve God, with fear, and fear,
So David and his men were about six hundred men, and they departed from Keilah, and went up and down where they went up and down: and it was told David, that David had escaped from Keilah, and he went out to go out.
And it came to pass, when the time was come about, a prophetess conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel, because she had asked of the Lord.
And his daughter in the law of Phinehas was great with child, and her conception; and when she heard the ark that the ark of God was taken, and her father in law, and her husband, she bowed down, and fell in labor; for her pangs fell upon her.
And they showed no mercy to the house of Jerubbesheth, according to all the good that he had done to Israel.
And he brought down the host to the water, and the Lord said to it, Thou must separate every one that putteth the water to drink with his tongue, as a dog from them that bow.
But Jehovah smote seventy men of the people of Beth-shemesh, to seek the ark of Jehovah; and great was the mourning of the people for the destruction which Jehovah had sent upon them.
Therefore these were the apostles from one man, and he was as well as dead as the stars of heaven in number, and as the sand of the sea by the sea-shore.
And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore: but they knew not that evil was near them.
And they possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought himself a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath appointed him to be prince over his people; because thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
So may Jehovah punish Jonathan and more if my father be determined to do thee hurt, and if I forbear to reveal it unto thee, and send thee word unto thee, that thou mayest go safely; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And Moses was faithful in all his house, as a minister, for a testimony of the things which were spoken.
But the men of Israel were grieved that day. And Saul charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread until even, and I am avenged on mine enemies. And none of the people ate bread.
For every chief priest, out of men, is taken in behalf of men to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins;
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they tarried with him all the days that David was in the stronghold.
Put not thy handmaid before the daughter of Belial, For from the abundance of my meditation, and of my wrath, I have spoken hitherto.
And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And he went from thence unto the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before was Kiriath-sepher.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And David loved David and Judah, when he went out, and came before them.
Wherefore I sware unto the house of Ish-bosheth, that the iniquity of the house of Ish-bosheth would not be purged by sacrifice, nor by oblation for ever.
And they indeed were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death.
And thou shalt go forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor; and three men go up against thee to Beth-el, one bearing three kids; and another bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine:
And all the people gat up as one body, saying, Not one of us shall go into his tent, neither shall any of us return to his house.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Thou son, the son's son's son's son, because he hath taken his wife, and gave her to his neighbor. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And he said unto his lad, Run, get out now the arrows which I will shoot. And as the child ran, he shot out a arrow beyond him.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for thee.
And he said, They were my brethren, even the children of my mother: As the Lord liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man? and who is like thou in Israel? why didst thou not watch thy lord the king? for one of the people came to destroy thy lord the king.
For verily, he giveth no help to angels; But he giveth help to the seed of Abraham.
And Samuel took a fat lamb, and brought it up, and a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
And it came to pass, when the time was come about after Hanun, that she conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And it was that feared that which was seen, Moses said, I am distressed, and I am afraid.
For we are the circumcision, that worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
and make straight paths for thy feet, that the lame shall not be charmed; but rather be healed.
And by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a fair child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Nevertheless Jehovah raised up judges, who delivered them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, We have now returned unto thee, that thou mayest go with us to fight against the children of Ammon, and be for us head of all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Esarhaddon the son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
of whom the world was not worthy, in the deserts, and in the mountains, and in caves, and in holes, and in the ground.
For he was determined many times to suffer from the foundation of the world: but now once he was manifested for the end of the ages of the ages.
But the righteous shall live by faith; but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And Melchizedek answered and ten kings, having their thumb and their great toes cut off, and cut off their flesh under my table: as I have done, so God hath rewarded me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
And the children of Dan journeyed; and Micah saw that they were too strong for him; and he turned and returned to his house.
And he set fire to the lamps, and let the foxes go into the ears of the Philistines, and he burnt the pots of sheaves, and the grain, and the grain, even unto the vineyards of olive-trees.
For we enter into the rest, we that believed, as he said, So I sware in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: and the works were done from the foundation of the world.
And when he had blessed Elkanah and his wife, he said, Jehovah give thee a seed of this woman in place of the well that she desired from Jehovah. And they went to their own house.
And he kept the passover by faith, and laid the blood upon the houses, that the angel of death slew not their first-born.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to Libnah out of the land of Ahitub.
But ye have rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your troubles and your troubles, and have said unto him, Nay, but a king shalt thou set over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
For ye have conspired against me all against me, and there is none uncovered mine ear about my son's commandment with the son of Jesse: and there is none of you mourning for me, and have uncovered mine ear, that my son hath raised up my servant against me, to lie in wait as this day.
And they took their daughters unto their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
And they said, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and cast the rings of his prey into it.
Thou didst not delight in all burnt-offering and offerings for sins.
And I went out, and stood by the side of my father in the field where thou, and I speak of thee to my father, and have seen what is come, and I will tell thee.
Whosoever regardeth not the things that are his own, but the other men's.
I can do all things through Christ, that hath strengthened me.
For those of us that believe come unto him; even as he hath said, As I sware when I was wroth, they can not come into my rest: Though the works were done from the time of the making of the world.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered us into our hand, he that fighteth against us, who made our land waste, and slew us.
As for the proverb of the elders, Salvation cometh from the wicked; But my hand shall not be upon thee.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it from the cliff of Ashdod.
And as it is appointed unto men to die, but after this is the judgment:
And the Philistines said, I denounce the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
In that day I will accomplish against that day, all that I have spoken against his household, from the beginning to end.
And they rose up early in the morning, and bowed themselves before Jehovah, and returned, and entered into their house in Ramah, and Elkanah knew his wife, and Jehovah remembered her.
For I know that this shall turn forth for me to salvation, through your supplication and in the ministry of the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
And the children of Israel served Eglon king of Moab, eighteen years.
And now, behold, I pray thee, in the ears of the people, saying, He that shall be afraid and trembling, let him return, and go early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand, and ten thousand were left.
and others were tempted of being mocked by or of stripes, and with chains and prisons:
And he smote it on a pan, or a pot, or a pot, or a pot: all that the same was of the ephah brought up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came thither.
And she was bitter in soul, and prayeth unto Jehovah, and wept greatly.
And he said unto God, Let not thy wrath be kindled against me, if I have tried once more, seeking a sign in the fleece of the fleece: I pray that the fleece thereof may be dry, and all the earth faint with dew.
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal and the Asherah that was beside it were cut down; and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered. And when she heard the ark that God's ark was taken, and that her husband and her husband were dead, she bowed herself, and bare her pangs.
And he cried out unto his servant, and said unto him, Take away thy sword, and destroy me, that they may not say unto me, His death was the work of a woman: therefore the young man put his sword through him, and slew him.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been seven days.
And when she had gotten upon an ass, and was coming down to the mountain, David and his men came down over against her, and she met them.
how much more could have been done if the people had eaten willingly from the spoil of their enemies that they had found! for now the loss of the Philistines is not great.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Baal, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh: and he passed through Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed through unto the children of Ammon.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, year in a place that is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and toward the south of Jokneam.
And the people smote the spoil, and took sheep, cattle, and oxen, and slew them upon the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and rebel against what Jehovah saith, then will the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
And when the men of that city were risen up in the morning, they saw the altar of Baal destroyed, and the Asherah was cut down, and the second bullock laid upon the altar, which then was built.
For many shall walk of whom many times have I told you: and now, behold, now the enemies of the cross of Christ.
being without father or mother, or family, having no birth nor end, being made like the Son of God, he is a priest for ever.
For he that speaketh these things shall be called unto another tribe, whereof no man hath put out at the altar.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast done me good, and I have done thee evil.
And he saith unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the mighty came forth sweetness. And they could not tell the riddle three days.
For we know him that said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay: and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
For we have not a high priest not able to fight with our weaknesses, but tempted in all things in like manner, sin apart.
And it came to pass after a time, when the children of Ammon fought against Israel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but me, that I should not reign over them.
And Saul said unto his servants, See now, I pray you, a man that is ready to me: then bring ye into me.
So Jonathan arose from the table in great anger, and ate not bread on the second day after the new moon: for he was grieved for David, because his father had put him to shame.
And there came out a mighty company out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath: he was more than six cubits old.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared no more to man, and to his wife. Then he knew that it was the angel of Jehovah.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring nigh the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And when he shall return again in the first-born to the world, he saith, And let them worship him, all the angels of God.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, O Levite, thou, and all thy father's house.
If then there be any comfort in Christ, if any man love of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any man and compassion,
And the trees said unto the fig tree, Come thou and reign over us.
Go, I pray thee, now, more sure, and know, and see his place where his foundation is, and who hath seen him there: for I am told that he is very subtil.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste and come; for the Philistines have made a raid upon the land.
For for the work of Christ he came nigh unto death, and served his life king that which was lacking in your service toward me.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, in that both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And she said unto her, How long shall thou go to be worse? put away thy wine from thee.
And Jehovah appeared again at Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself unto Samuel at Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
From this time, waiting for his enemies shall be his footstool.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, get thee down from Amalek; lest I destroy thee with him: for thou hast showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the Kenite departed from Amalek.
And Samuel offered the burnt-offering; and the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: and Jehovah thundered with a great noise on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were slain before Israel.
And God divided the hollow of a troop, and there came water out of it; and he drank, and his spirit returned, and he was restored to life. And he called his name the Archite of Zophim, which is at a troop unto this day.
And with whom was he offended forty years? was it not with them that sinned, whose dead bodies were overthrown in the wilderness?
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and thou shalt smite the Philistines, and thou shalt save the stock of Keilah.
And the three first-born of Jesse had gone with Saul to the battle; and the names of the three that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and Jonathan the third.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before thee: make haste now, for he came to the city; for the people have a sacrifice this day in the high place.
And the Philistines assembled their armies to battle, and gathered themselves at Succoth, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Zobah and Azekah, in the time when they defied.
and make straight paths for your feet, that the lame be not turned away; but that it may be healed.
And Abimelech answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Ye did not yet resist unto blood with the sin of sin.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself unto Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
And there was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the spoilers, also trembled; and the earth trembled, so there was a exceeding great trembling.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men undone; every one could stone stones in a corner breadth, and not miss.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came forth as one man.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up; behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
Thou lovedst righteousness, and hatest iniquity; Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of joy above thy fellows.
And there was a man of Saul's servants in that day that day before Jehovah, and his name Hirah the Edomite, chief of the shepherds whom Saul had.
And Agag the king of the Amalekites took na alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? and why eat thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
and said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is it come to pass in Israel, that there should be this day a tribe lacking in Israel?
Then came ye to pass through all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and pass against the Jordan, before they come. So all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and kept the way beyond the Jordan.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were brought unto Israel from Ekron even unto Gath; and the border thereof did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
But I reckon to send unto thee, my brother, a fellow-soldier, a fellow-soldier, and thy apostle, and the servant of my need;
But if ye yet do evil, then shall thou destroy thee and thy king.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longing for, my joy and my crown, so stand fast in the Lord, beloved.
And he hath a son, and his name Saul, a choice youth and goodly; and there was no man among the children of Israel more than his shoulder and upward, above any of the people.
And the princes of the Philistines brought up unto her seven mingled arrows that were not dried up, and she bound him with them.
And it came to pass, as soon as the lad was gone, that David arose out of the south, and fell upon his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, and David wept the most.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid on the South, and in Ziklag, and smote Ziklag, and burned it with fire,
So Saul took him from him, and set him to himself the head of a thousand, and he went out before the people.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins; and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, and drank no water for three days and three nights.
She sent forth her hand to the nail, and she gave her right hand to the workers of the workers of the workers; and she smote his head: and she smote it, and passed through his temple.
And the king said to the guard that stood near him, Put the priests of the Lord to death; for they are on David's side, and when they have heard his flight, and told me not. But the king's servants would not put forth their hands to destroy the priests of Jehovah.
And they went out against him, and shut the doors of the summer house upon him, and embraced them.
And now as I know that thou shalt surely be king, and hast the kingdom of Israel in thy hand.
And they said unto them, Come, let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and it is very good. Wilt ye do nothing? Beware ye not to go, to enter, to possess the land.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days declare the riddle.
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: behold, when I come into the uttermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
And they said, Pray for us from God, to see if the way whereon we shall prosper.
And when David heard that the death was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath done his reproach from my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and he hath kept his servant from evil; but Jehovah hath returned the evil of Nabal upon his own head. Then David sent and spake with Abigail to take her for his wife.
From Ephraim shall their root be unto Amalek, after thee, O Benjamin, with thy family; from Machir the princes went down, and from Zebulun them that bare the sceptre of the host.
And the men that died not were smitten with the boils: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose, and went to Naaman.
And when Samuel died, and all Israel gathered together, and mourned for him; and they buried him at Ramah. And David rose up, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And this shall we do if God suffer.
Remember them that are in chains, as if thou wast bound with them, and those that are in trouble, as ye are bound in the body.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore come ye up against us? And they said, We have come up to build a son, and do to him as he hath done unto us.
But these all, being witnessed by faith, received not the promise.
And it came to pass, that they went up and wept before Jehovah until night, and consulted him, and said, Shall I go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin, my brethren, or not? And he said unto them, Go up against them, and join war.
And the Lord called Samuel again the third time. And he arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And Naaman perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
For he was sick of death, but God had mercy on him: and not on him only, but also on me, that I might not have sorrow on sorrow.
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
For the ground that drinketh the rain that cometh upon it, and bringeth forth herbs unto those people, for whose sake it is, it is a blessing from God.
And he went up from thence against the people of Debir: and the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
who served the report and the shadow of the heavenly things, as Moses had spoken these things to make the tabernacle; for, behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern which hath been showed thee in the mount.
Now faith is the riches of things: and the sign which the things which are not seen are true.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that advanced Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
But if ye will not obey the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
And by faith Abraham did as God said, when he was commanded to go forth into a tomb, and went out without knowledge whither he went.
And the Philistines came, and drew near against David, and his armorbearer before him.
and saying these things, they cast away all the idols of strange gods, and served Jehovah their God, and was touched with their miseries.
Do all things without enchantment and arguments.
And he disguised himself, and put on other garments; and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and said unto her, The vine unto me by thy divine spirit, and bring me up him whom I shall tell thee.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do that which seemeth good unto thee. Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.
And Achan the son said unto her, If there be seven new darts laden with me, which have never been made dry; I will be weak, and I will be like any other man.
And he said unto them, Come after me; for Jehovah hath delivered the Moabites, your enemies, into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the breaches of the Jordan against Moab, and let none pass over.
But one of the young men said unto the wife of Nabal, saying, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to speak kindly unto our master, and he answered them roughly.
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were about seven days.
Go and cry unto the gods that ye have chosen: Let them save thee in the time of your trouble.
And the seven sons of Jesse came before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not taken any of these.
So David arose, and fled in that day from the presence of Saul, and came to Ahijah the king of Gath.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, he was a hundred and ten years old.
And Saul answered and said, Am I not a Benjamite, from the least of the tribes of Israel, and my family, that there is none of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin? why speakest ye to me in this way?
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed, and of the fruit of thy vines, and give it unto his servants.
And the sons of Benjamin came out to meet the people; they were drawn out of the city, and smote of the people, wounded as time by the way of the old country, which went up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
who being the brightness of the glory, and the glory of his stature, bearing up all things by the word of his might, having made a cleansing for our sins, sat at the right hand of the greatness in the highest,
And she said unto her, How long shall thou be with him that is drunken? put away thy wine.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, A woman I have seen in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take her for me for a wife.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto Shebna, Behold, there came the people down from the top of the mountains. And Shebna said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.
Then Hanun prayed, and said, My heart is in Jehovah, my strength is exalted in Jehovah: I am in the midst of mine enemies; for I rejoice over thy salvation.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul bowed himself down unto Jehovah.
And Saul sent word to Jesse, saying, Let David stand before me, because he hath found favor in my sight.
And he called quickly to the young man bearing his weapons, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that they will not say of me, A woman slew him. And the young man smote him, and he died.
And Jonathan said unto David, What thy soul shall say, I will do it for thee.
And Saul said, Let us fall on the Philistines by night, and destroy them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And the people said, Do all that seems good in thine eyes. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither unto God.
to whom Abraham gave also the tenth portion of all; first being interpreted the king of righteousness, and then the king of Salem, which is the king of peace.
For unto you it is given to you for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: but he was the name of the city at the first.
Manasseh drove not out Beth-aven, nor the cities thereof, or the cities thereof, and the inhabitants of Dor, and the cities thereof, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam, and the cities thereof, or the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the cities thereof: the Canaanites were determined to dwell in this land.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Do not dwell in this place, but go into the land of Judah. Then David went and came into the city of Siddim.
And as she rode upon her ass, and came down by the covert of the mountain, behold, David and his men came down toward her, and she met them.
In that day I will perform against myself all that I have spoken concerning his house from the beginning even to the end.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah in the land of Saul.
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men; and they pursued after them to go, and slew two thousand men of them.
And they took all the flocks and herds, and drove them before him, and said, These are David's.
and the golden courses, one for all the cities of the Philistines, the cities of the five lords, fortified cities, and fortified cities; and the great stone, where they set the ark of Jehovah, remained in the field of Joshua the Gilonite unto this day.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And David answered and said unto the priest, Behold, the women have been kept from us; and as hath been done before, as I have gone forth out of the hands of the young men, though I have gone out, though it was a breach; how much more this day shall be sanctified.
Therefore God also magnified him, and graciously gave him the name above every name.
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took his charge, and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the battle, and the host that went forth to the battle array for the battle.
Boast not your hearts, as in the rebellion, as in the day of trial in the wilderness;
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the ordinance, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
So David hid himself in the field; and it was the new moon: and the king sat at meat to eat.
So they journeyed again, and the little ones, and the cattle, and the goods before them.
And the men of Judah said, Why come ye up against us? And they said, We are come up to bind a son, to do him as he hath done us.
I am persuaded between two, having a desire to go away and be with Christ, which is very much better:
And the sin of the young men is very great the face of Jehovah; for the men have despised the offering of Jehovah.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded for you.
And they sent and gathered together all the nobles of the Philistines; and they said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return into its own place, and kill us not and our people.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? and they understood that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
And when the Spirit of God came upon Saul, when he heard these tidings, his wrath was kindled greatly.
His sons did not walk in his ways; But they turned aside after covetousness, And took gifts, and perverted justice.
And the women sang to one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, David his ten thousands.
Take not thy handmaid for a daughter of Belial; for out of the abundance of my grief and sorrow have I spoken hitherto.
And the midwives were as the Philistines as aforetime, which had gone up with them into the camp, and pursued them, and were with Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And Samuel told the people the king's custom, and wrote the statutes in a book, and laid it before Jehovah. Then Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his own house.
And this is the highway in which was said, We have a high priest such as this, who sat at the right hand of the throne of glory in heaven,
And he called David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou art righteous and good in my sight; and so is thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the host: and I have not found my evil in thee since the day that thou camest unto me unto this day; but thou rejoisest not the lords.
And Jehovah sent waste Baal, and Naarah, and Iphtah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwelt securely.
So the Philistines fought against Israel, and Israel prevailed, and every man fled to his tent; and there was great destruction; and there were slain thirty thousand footmen.
who in the days of his flesh offered up both supplications and supplications, with loud crying and tears, to him that was able to save him from death; and he was heard of his fear.
In the days of Hassenaah, the son of Achbor, in the days of the field, the paths rested; and they that went by them walked through every way.
And they took the things that Micah had made, and the priest that he had, and came unto Shechem, unto a people that were at quiet and sure; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
Every man standeth in his place round about the enemies' camp. So all the camp was troubled, and they cried out and wailing.
only of meats, and of drinking, and of divers things, and of the knowledge of the flesh, the ordinance of the flesh, appointed unto the manner of setting.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put the hair of the head of goats' hair for the man, and covered it with a napkin.
Being made perfect, he became unto all that obey him the Prince of eternal salvation,
And now the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and a evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
And Saul took him on that very day, and suffered him not to return to his father's house.
constant my joy, in the same mind, having the same love, being of one mind, being of one mind;
Neither that he should offer himself many times, as the high priest goeth into the holy things, every year with the blood of others;
And they told David, saying, The Philistines fight against Keilah, and took the threshing-floor.
And thy flocks also shall he tithe, and ye shall be his servants.
And after him repaired the spirit of Beth-lehem, the judgment of Israel.
And Jiphan vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt surely deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
and set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the golden images which thou hast set in a chest by its side, and cast it away, that it may go.
though God spake long ago in many parts, and in many ways unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he came to his father's house in Israel, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, seventy men, upon one stone: and Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbesheth was left.
And David said unto Abiathar, Behold, I knew in that day, when the enemy the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I am surety of all the souls of thy father's house.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And he said unto Abiathar the priest the son of Joab, Bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
And it came to pass, when he heard the noise of the crying, that he said, What mean the noise of this uproar? And the man came in haste, and told Eli.
And she sent, and called, and called the son of Jerubbesheth the son of Naphtali, and said unto him, Hath Jehovah the God of Israel commanded? Go and draw into mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun,
And it was so from that day, that he made it a statute and an ordinance unto Israel unto this day.
And thou shalt not yet while I live, even the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I die not.
So Saul removed him from before him, and made him a captain of a thousand, so he went and went before the host.
For God is my witness, how I long after you all in the heart of Jesus Christ.
These indeed of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he said, Behold, I am, my lord.
Grace be with you all.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw nigh unto one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent out, and took thirty daughters from off unto his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
Saying, Verily I will bless thee, And I will multiply thee.
And a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, in the midst of the tabernacle of Jehovah: and his name was Achsah, an Edomite, the best of Saul's herdsmen.
And they refused not to hearken unto their judges, but they played the harlot after other gods, and bowed themselves down unto them; they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, to obey the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
And he shall take the tithe of your grain, and of the increase of your vineyards, to give his chamberlains and his servants.
Then behold he was the angel of the Lord, and said, I am afraid, O Lord God: for I have seen the angel of the Lord face upon me.
And Saul said nothing that day, for he thought to have happened unto him, that he was not clean, nor cleansed.
And the Philistines said, I have mocked the house of Israel this day: give me a man, and we fight together.
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines shouted against him; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms were as pillars of flax, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And he restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I have dedicated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image; and now I will restore it unto thee.
And I beseech you, I beseech you, help my work, to see to the necessities of those women who ministered with me in the gospel, with diligence and the rest of my brethren, whose names are in the book of life.
So they inquired again of Jehovah, saying, Did the man come hither? And Jehovah said, Behold, he is hid with stuff.
So she left him, and returned to her father's house in Beth-lehem, and abode with him four months.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and put them down upon the rock, and poured out the pottage over them. And he did so.
And the Philistines stood on the mount on this side, and the children of Israel stood on the mountain on that side, and the valley between them.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink.
not that I seek after the gift; but I seek after the fruit that is overflowing for your sake.
And I exhort thee also, my faith, who have laboured with me in the gospel, with the bridle, and the rest of my fellow workmen, whose names are in the book of life.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
but Christ, as Son over his house, whose house are we, if we hold fast the boldness and the glory of hope unto the end.
And they gave him a portion of fig cake, and two cakes cakes: he did eat, and this revived, because he had not eaten bread, nor drank water for three days and three nights.
And he said unto him, If I have found favour in thine eyes, show me a sign that thou speakest with me.
We have an altar from which the priests that are ministers in the tent shall not eat.
And David arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king! And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and showed favor.
for a land, drinking in rain rain, and bringing good herbs for them that wrought it, hath a blessing from God:
And why will ye harden your heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought much among them, did they not let them go, and they departed?
And the kine went straight forward on the way to Beth-shemesh; they went by the high way, and spread as they went; and they turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And they rose up in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah: and they returned, and came into their house at Riblah. And Elkanah knew a prophetess his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And they oppressed and crushed the children of Israel in that year, eighteen years old, all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And I said, Now the Philistines will come down against me to Gilgal; and I have not sought the face of Jehovah: I have prepared the burnt-offering, and I presented the burnt-offering.
And all the children of Israel went out, and gathered together as one man, from Dan even unto Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah, at Mizpah.
being perfected in the fruit of righteousness, which through Jesus Christ, the glory of God, and of praise.
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give that to the man of God, to tell us our way.
And Jonathan the son of Saul rejoiced greatly in David, and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father sought to kill thee: and now, I pray thee, be careful in the morning, and thou shalt lodge in a secret place, and hide thyself.
For the Amorites would dwell in the midst of the mountain, in Aijalon, and in Aijalon; but the children of Joseph were stronger than they, and put them to taskwork.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to buy food for the people, that they may do, when they came to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
Let your behaviour be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
And David arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and called after Saul, My lord the king. And when Saul looked after him, David bowed down with his face to the ground, and bowed down.
And Jonathan spake good things of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, O king, do not sin against thy servant David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and his works are very good toward thee.
Seeing that we have a great high priest, that is passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not in the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and when we saw that they were not, we went to Samuel.
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a stumblingblock to him, and that the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said unto David, In two things thou shalt be my son in law this day.
And David said unto Abishai, Slay him not: for who, without sin, shall set out his hand against the man, on whom Jehovah hath anointed the holy oil?
And all Israel from Dan to Beersheba, knowing that Samuel was a faithful prophet of Jehovah.
And the children of Dan sent out of their houses, five men of them, men of valor, from Zorah, from Zorah, and from Haran, to spy the land, and to spy it, saying, Go, search the land. And they came into the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
But I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation: for I wrote unto you in few words.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth, thou shalt no plague befall thee.
How much rather shall the blood of Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself pure unto God, cleansing thy conscience from dead works to worship the living God?
and because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body, and became like them; that by his death he might destroy him that was worthy of death, that is to say, The devil;
And peace shall pursue with all, and the separate separate; without any man shall see Jehovah.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And all Israel heard that Saul had fought against the Philistines, and that Israel was sore displeased by the Philistines. And the people came together after Saul to Gilgal.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not of another day speak after these things.
And by faith they passed through the Red Sea as on a dry land: and when the Egyptians tried to do so, they were swallowed up.
And Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal to Benjamin. And the rest of the people went up after Saul to meet the people that fought against them, from Gilgal to Gibeah in the hill of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
But he, for a sin offering, offering to the end, sat down on the right hand of God.
And Huram said to Bidkar, Tell me, I beseech thee, in which thy strength lieth, and what is with thee, thou shalt not break loose.
Then one of the servants answered and said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the revealer of Bethlehem, the cunning man, and a mighty man, and a man of war; and he is wise in his words, and behold, and Jehovah is with him.
And Jehovah will return to every man his righteousness and his truth, wherein Jehovah hath given thee this day into hand, and I would not put forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah.
And they smote Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, every exact one, and every one of valor, and not a man escaped.
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, which are at Philippi, with the officers and officers:
And it came to pass on the day that Elkanah sacrificed, that he gave to Jahaz his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters;
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he shall deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah will be with thee.
And it came to pass, when the people of Ashdod arose early in the morning, that they saw that Dagon fell down to the ground upon his face before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon and buried him again.
For also in Thessalonica, once, and again, unto my need ye sent;
Now his father and his mother knew not that this was the counsel of Jehovah, who smote the Philistines in mind. Now the Philistines began to reign over Israel.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and my crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And it came to pass after a time, that the children of Ammon fought with Israel.
I will no more cast out any of the nations that Joshua left when he died from before them;
And the young man answered Saul, and said, Behold, there is found with me the fourth part of a shekel of silver: and I will give unto the man of God, and he will tell us our way.
And Zacchaeus came to Mizpah unto his house; and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, O youth? And David said, Son of thy servant, thou art the son of Jonathan.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
I will go out, and stand at my father's side in the field where thou art, and I will speak concerning thee to my father; if I find out anything I will tell it unto thee.
So God brought to Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel in that day.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and said, What is this voice of a great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? and they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
To morrow, about this hour, I will send thee a man of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be ruler over my people Israel; and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked down upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up to Beth-el, and weeping, and stand there before Jehovah, continually daily until evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, who shall do according to my heart and my soul, and I will build him a faithful house, and he shall walk all the days before my anointed.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: but testify unto them, and warn them the king's right, that shall reign over them.
And now stand, and I will judge you before Jehovah, with all the righteousnesses of Jehovah, which he did with you, and with your fathers.
for it was he, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, who brought many children into glory, to perfect the Prince of their salvation, by his wrath.
But Achan said, If ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and then I will be quiet.
And the second curtain was in the midst of the second curtain, which is called the Holy One.
For by this, the elders received witness.
We have an altar from which they that serve in the tabernacle do not the right to eat.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And if the man said unto him, Let them burn the fat thereof first, take for thyself as thou wouldest. Then he would say unto him, Give it now; but if not, I will take it by force.
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
Behold, this day thy eyes have seen how Jehovah had delivered thee this day into my hand in the cave; and some entreated me to slay thee; but I said, I will not stretch out my hand against my lord; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And it came to pass after some time, that the children of Ammon fought with Israel.
And David answered Jonathan, who shall bring me word, if thy father should answer thee roughly?
And it came to pass, that after the second curtain there was a tent to be called in the holy place,
And he took his rod, which he had continually in his hand; and he chose him five goodly stones out of the brook, and put them into the sheep-sack, which he had with him; and he took a bit in his hand, and went out against the Philistines.
but thou hast risen this day against my father's house, and slew his sons, even seventy men upon one stone, and madest Abimelech, the son of his handmaid, a king over the lords of Shechem; for he is thy near kinswoman.
And now, hearken, I pray thee, to the voice of thy handmaid, and I will set a morsel of bread before thee, and eat; and there shall be power when thou goest in the way.
And the cattle took the way of Beth-shemesh to the way of Beth-shemesh, and went along the way, as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And it came to pass, while they were with the house of Micah, that they knew the voice of the young Levite, and they turned aside thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? what doest thou in this place, and what is thy occupation here?
and be with every good thing to do his will, bearing out in us what is acceptable before Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever. Amen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath borne childless, so shall thy mother be children than women. And Samuel rent them in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And all this congregation shall know that not by sword and by spear save Jehovah, that the battle Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the ambush where he hideth himself, and come ye again unto me with the truth, and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them, by whom it is arrayed, receiveth blessing from God.
But Hanun went not up; for she said unto her husband, Neither until the child is weaned; then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and abide there for ever.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why shalt thou ask for my name? and it shall be marvellous.
And he judged Israel twenty years in the days of the Philistines.
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save the Moabites.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
So they took their provision and their trumpets into their hand; and he sent all the men of Israel, every one to his tent, but three hundred of the men he kept; and the camp of Midian was under the midst of the valley.
And it came to pass, when he came thither, that he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and all the children of Israel went down with him from the mountain, and he at their head.
Salute every holy one in Christ Jesus.
He shall take the tithe of your flocks, and ye shall be his servants.
Then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I shall return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
And it said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his eyes.
And they found also that they might set him in array, and fight against him, and smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
Then the right country went up to Saul in Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid among us in the stronghold in the hill country of the hill of the sea, which is the south of the wilderness?
saying, I will teach thy name unto my brethren, I will sing unto thee a song of praise before the assembly.
And Saul looked down from that day and forward.
For the priesthood is changed, and of the necessities of the law.
And Annas also died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And the Philistines humbled themselves, and came no more into the borders of Israel. And the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines, all the days of Samuel.
And when he heard this, he agreed unto their words, and took the ephod, and the idols, and the graven images, and departed with them.
And Jesse called, Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And unto whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all things which he had, being first named king of righteousness, and then by the king of Salem, that is to say, King of peace;
And he had forty sons, and thirty sons, riding on threescore of the same, and he judges Israel eight years.
and Joshua gathered together the children of Ammon, and Amalek; and they went and smote Israel, and took the city of palm-trees.
And David heard in the wilderness that the Rehoboth was of the sheep:
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this nation have transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way: and, behold, his concubine fell down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
And the kings came and fought, and the kings of Canaan fought by the waters of Megiddo, and took no spoil.
Go now, make it well; and find forth, and see what he is, and that which hath seen him there: for they have said unto me, He is very skilful.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and hath set the world upon them.
And it came to pass, when they rose early on the morrow morning, and, behold, reed fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon, and the hands of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the stump of Dagon was left unto him.
Then said Micaiah, Now know I that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite unto my priest.
And as I say, Levi also, who shall receive tithes, bestow tithes in Abraham.
And God did so that night; only the fleece was dried up, and the dew was upon all the ground.
And she brought him up with her, when she had weaned him with three bullocks, and one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, and the lad was but a child.
And they that were slain in that place were eighteen thousand men, all valiant men.
For a covenant hath fulfilled after death; For what power hath been as the man that made it alive?
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Let us alone seven days, and send messengers into all the borders of Israel: and if there be none that can save us, we will come out unto thee.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me to bring me up? And Saul said, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines fight against me, and God is departed from me, and he answered me no more, neither by prophets nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, and go down from the midst of the Amalekites, lest I destroy thee with them: for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. And the Kenite departed from among the Amalekites.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And the children of Israel arose in the morning, and encamped by Gibeah.
And the children of Israel said, Who is in the congregation not come up from all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah? for the oath was taken, whosoever came not up to Jehovah at Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? for Saul will hear of it, and he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take with thee a calf of the herd, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
For it is manifest that our Lord came out of Judah, whereof Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehem Judah of the house of Judah, who was a Levite, and sojourned there.
Should I take my bread and my water and my food which I have slain for my shearers, and give it to men whom I know not whence they are?
And Naomi said unto her, If they should bind me with seven rough cords which have not been dried up, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
always, in every supplication of mine for you, with joy making supplication;
Then were the horse of the horse broken, And the songs of his mighty ones.
And between the passage, by which Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines' garrison, there was a high rock on the one side, and a rock on the other side; and the name of the one was Bozrah; and the name of the one was Orpah.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow withal; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of it that were left.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna fled, he pursued them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna; and he smote the whole army.
And Saul took that day David, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And David fled, and escaped, and came unto Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him: and he went, he and Samuel; and they dwelt at Timnah.
And they journeyed, and lodged in the borders of Judah, which is called the camp of Dan, and was behind Kiriath-jearim.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if the young men have kept themselves from women.
And he said, Out of the man of famine came bread, and out of the mighty man came the sweet. And the end of three days died.
But now he hath obtained a good work, by how much also he is a mediator of a good covenant, which is established on better promises.
Then he called to the young man that took his armor, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that they say not of me, A woman slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
Now to our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
He bowed down from her feet; he fell, he lay down; He bowed down from her feet, he fell; where he worshipped, there he fell, and destroyed.
And Abimelech went and took three hundred the foxes, and took the lamps, and turned tail to tail, and put a lamp in the midst between every two tails.
And they said, Ye have not wronged us, nor oppressed us, neither have ye taken anything from any of any of any.
And his father went down unto the woman, and made a feast for his son, a son: for so the young men did.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote Nabal, that he died.
And he said unto his first-born, Rise up, and slay them. But the child drew not his sword; for he was afraid, because he was yet a child.
But this man, because he endureth for ever, hath an eternal priesthood.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon Baal, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over to Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And if they had called from whence they went out from whence they went out, they had received opportunity to return.
And they set up for themselves Micah's graven image, which he had made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And he said unto him, Behold, there is a man of God in this city, and the man is glorified: all that he saith verily is true. So then let us go there; peradventure he will tell us our journey wherein we have gone.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work of Jehovah which he had wrought for Israel.
Salute all them that have authority over you, and all the saints: they of Italy salute you.
Wherefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest we should let them slip.
And David said unto his men, Let every man turn upon his sword; and every one that rideth on his sword, David also hanged upon his sword, and about four hundred men went up after David, while two hundred remained with the vessels.
And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And when Saul was yet in Gilgal, all the people that followed him were greatly afraid.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue; And they shall all grow old as a garment.
Jehovah will do so, and to Jonathan, and to Jonathan more: if my father continue in wickedness against thee, I will uncover it, and will send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But unto the Son, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: A sceptre of justice is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from thee, about which thou didst set, and spake also in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
So David set out early, he and his men, to leave in the morning to return unto the land of the Philistines; but the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And he had thirty sons that had set on thirty asses; and they had thirty cities that were in the land of Gilead, that they called, Havvoth-jair, unto this day.
And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab, eighteen years.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the Philistines forty years.
And now let not my blood fall upon the earth before Jehovah's face: for the king of Israel shall come forth to seek one green, as he hath pursued the roll of the mountains.
So it was, when Israel did sow, that the Midianites, the Amalekites, and the children of the east came up against them.
And it came to pass, when David heard in the wilderness, that the Hittite was sheep of sheep,
And it came to pass, when he came, that he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim, and went down with him the children of Israel from the hill-country, and he was before them.
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them the wives whom they had saved of the women of Jabesh-gilead; but even so they found not sufficient for them.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Amorite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall bow down, and of heaven, and the earth, and the earth.
So David went, and the six hundred men that were with him, and came unto the valley, or, whither they that were left behind remained.
He shall keep the feet of his saints, And the wicked shall be quiet in darkness, because no man shall prevail by his own strength.
And these are the golden serpent, which the Philistines returned, as a trespass offering unto Jehovah; for Ashdod, for Gaza, for Ashkelon, for Gath, for Ekron,
For this was the king of Salem, the priest of the Most High God, who found Abraham back from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him:
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their hearts spake to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Ezekiel said unto them, I am a man of great strife, I and my people, with the children of Ammon, and I called you, and ye have not delivered me out of their hand.
And his father's father begat him three days; and they ate and drank, and took their rest there.
And the men of the city rose early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal broken down, and cut down the holy tree, and the calf offered upon the altar that was set up.
And the ark of God was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
For by this the people of old were approved.
And David took from her hand which she had brought for him; and he said unto her, Go up to thy house in peace: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and I have granted thy request.
And he brought down the people into the water, and Jehovah said to them that would be made, Every one that runneth with his tongue with the water of the water, as the dog is bitten, thou shalt set him asunder; and every one that humbleth his knees shall drink.
So he judges for Israel three and three years; and he died, and was buried in Horhao.
And he said, Behold, there cometh the people down from the midst of the land, and one troop cometh by the way that looketh toward the oak.
And David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, unto Ahijah the son of Hassenaah, king of Gath.
And if the work of the Levites were fulfilled, the Levites, ( for under it the people received the law), what need was there that another priest should arise according to the order of Melchizedek, and not be called according to the order of Aaron?
And David said to Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third even.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Depart, take thee away from among the Amalekites, and destroy thee with them: for thou wast merciful unto the children of Israel when they came out of Egypt. So the Kenite departed from among the Amalekites.
( for they are priests without sworn, but with the oath of an oath, by him that said, As unto him, The Lord hath sworn, and shall not repent thereof, thou priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek;)
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, that he delivered them, and Azel the son of Gera, the Benjamite, and his left hand; and the children of Israel sent an offering by him unto Eglon king of Moab.
And all the men of Shechem's tower heard, and entered into the stronghold of the house of God.
And they heard the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, which the Philistines had done to Saul.
Here, I am, testifying against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed one; whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I done? or whom have I hurt? or of whose hand have I taken a bribe, that I may shut my eyes in him? I will restore it to thee, and I will restore it unto thee.
And he said, In peace, I have come to offer an offering unto Jehovah: make yourselves clean, and come with me to offer the offering. And he made the atonement of Jesse and his sons clean, and sent for them to be present at the offering.
But now they are old than the heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of heavenly and of earth and of darkness.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah, before the word of Jehovah: and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days: there was no vision.
And now make a new cart, and take two young kine upon which there hath no yoke, and bind the kine to the cart, and bring out their calves from them;
And she said unto her young men, Go before me, and I will follow thee. And she spake nothing unto her husband.
and he showed them how to enter into the city; and they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his family.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took a stone out of his hand, and cast it out of the girdle of the Philistines, and cast the stone into his forehead, and fell down upon his face.
And the five men went on the way, and came to Shechem, and they saw the people that dwelt there, as the Sidonians, and the quiet, and the stronghold; for they had all that were on the earth for their sakes, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with Syria.
For when they were besieging the city, which was before was called Luz,
And the Holy Spirit is expressly distinctly, that the way into the holy place was not revealed, while the first tabernacle was yet standing;
And Saul cast his spear upon him to smite him. In this Jonathan knew that his father was minded to kill David.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this that thou hast done to do, that thou wouldest not call us, when thou wentest to fight against Midian? and when they had mocked him, he was very angry.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his children judges over Israel.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein, and brake down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns, and the thorn of the wilderness, and rent them with the same, and cut in pieces the men of Succoth.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will repay: and again the Lord will judge his people.
And this hath been done from that day, and for a statute, and a statute, and a ordinance in Israel.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return to Jehovah with all your heart, then put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you, and direct your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Take heed, brethren, lest haply there be in any of you an evil heart of disobedience, to depart from the living God.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
Now this present that thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
For therefore, because we have a great high priest that went through heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast unto our confession.
For, behold, thou art with child, and bear a son, and a razor shall not go up upon his head: for the young man shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb: and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And horsemen went out at the porch, and shut up the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and bolted.
So the congregation sent twelve thousand men, and commanded them, saying, Go, and bring the people of Gilead to the sword without mercy, with their wives, and with their little ones.
If they say thus unto us, Stand still until we come unto thee, and we will dwell in our place, and will not go up unto them.
And he went down, and spake unto the woman that had pleased his eyes.
For he put his life in safety, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah delivered all Israel: ye saw it, and rejoiced: wherefore then dost thou sin against him that is not guilty, seeing the death of David?
For by the living Lord the saviour of Israel, if the sinner be Jonathan, my son, surely shall he die: but not a man among all the people answered him.
And Micaiah said unto them, Now shall I be more unpunished than the Philistines, though I do them a displeasure.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice with all that thou hast said unto me, so have I set a king over thee.
And it came to pass, when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the house at the house of Micah, gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the heart of Jesus Christ,
And having a high priest over the house of God.
And they came together to Mizpah, and fetched water, and poured it out before Jehovah; and they ate not that day, and said, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel was judged of the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing to my master, the anointed of Jehovah, to stretch forth my hand against him; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And ye shall not lose your confidence, which hath a great reward.
In faith Abel offered unto God a greater sacrifice than Cain, by which he was approved that he was righteous, because God hath approved him for his gifts, and through it he speaketh, being dead.
And after him was Shimeah the son of Achbor; and he smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with an Egyptian old men: and he also delivered Israel.
And every man of Israel is gathered unto the city, as one man, and companions.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him; and he prospered: and Saul set him over the men of war, and it seemed good in the eyes of all the people, and also in the eyes of the servants of Saul.
( for the law is perfected nothing), and the earnest of a good hope by which we draw nigh unto God.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Ethiopia, and had rebelled against the king of Syria, and the children of Israel served; and the children of Israel served themselves eight years.
And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of the seer?
And he ran unto Naaman, and said, Here I, for thou hast called for me. And he said, I have not called it: turn back, lie down. And he went and lay down.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath shut up thy adversary this day into thy hand: and now let me smite him, I pray thee, with a spear, even to the earth once, and I will tell him again.
And his father said to him, And his mother, Is not there among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, a woman, that thou goest to take a woman of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Achan said unto his father, Take her for me; for she is right in mine eyes.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread.
And after him, Elon the goldsmiths, the judges of Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the holy priest of our confession Jesus;
And David said in his heart, I will go day or other fall into the hand of Saul: is it not better for me to flee, and to be saved in the land of the Philistines, that Saul may despair of me, and will cease to seek me in all the borders of Israel? I will flee then out of his hand.
Only fear ye Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart, for see that which he hath made great with you.
And his lord said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a stranger, which is not of the children of Israel, but we will pass into Gibeah.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And he said unto his lad, Run, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, now the arrows which I shall shoot. And as the child ran, he shot out a arrow beyond him.
Then Abimelech went up to Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a branch from the trees, and took it up, and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that was with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, do as I have done.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness.
And he died, and was buried, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And she blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt that is lent to Jehovah. And they went unto their own house.
And when the Philistines arose, and came and drew near to meet David, David ran quickly unto the battle array to meet the Philistines.
that this shall be no sorrow unto thee, nor a stumblingblock of heart unto my lord, whether thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself: when Jehovah hath dealt well with my lord, then thou shalt remember thy servant.
And before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to boil for the priest, and he shall not eat flesh of thee, but roast.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou come again.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that land.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not at his sight, nor in the height of his stature, because I have cast him off: for God seeth not what man seeth: for the man looketh upon the face, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
And almost all things are purified with blood according to the law; and there is no remission of uncleanness.
And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer, and in its towns, and in all the cities that are by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; wherefore didst thou not recover them within that time?
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Tarry not in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Laish.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Suffer me, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Speak.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee a good ward.
And he shall take the tithe of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.
I can do all things through Christ, who hath strengthened me.
And the weight of the golden rings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides ornaments, and a pillars, and purple garments that was upon the kings of Midian, and beside the chains that were about their camels' necks.
and princes in Issachar with Michmash, and Issachar the right of Naphtali; he was sent into the valley upon his feet; and in the divisions of Reuben many the statutes of heart.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
Speak unto the lords of Shechem, What is better for you, that seventy men of the sons of Jerubbesheth rule over thee, or that one man ruleth over thee? remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
The one that preach the Christ of strife, not right, that thought to add evil to my bonds:
And man arose to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; and the soul of my lord is bound in the land of life with Jehovah thy God, as to the soul of thine enemies, he shall cast them out into the midst of the sling.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the holy priest of our confession Jesus;
And David fled from Ramah in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is my iniquity? what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they perceived that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
And they said, There shall be a remnant for Benjamin, that a tribe may not be blotted out from Israel.
And David said unto Ahijah, What have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go to fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he found a new jaws of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew with it a thousand men.
And the woman ran, and told her husband, saying, I have seen the man that came to me the second day.
And Deborah in that time was a prophetess, a prophetess, the wife of the Lord's wife, to judge Israel.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Jehovah will call the enemies of David.
and did eat the good word of God, and the powers of the world.
And he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, being seventy persons, upon one stone: but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbesheth was left; for he hid himself.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein: and they to whom it was first preached not in because of unbelief.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And Melchizedek said, Seventy kings, whose thumb and the great toes were cut off, they laid bread under my table: as I have done, so hath God done unto me in full. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
But thou hast this day rejected thy God, who hath saved you out of all thy troubles and thy troubles; and thou hast said unto him, No, set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
That from year to year the daughters of Israel assemble together, and lamented the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite four days.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel, after those days, saith Jehovah, that I will give my statutes into their heart, and I will write them upon their heart; and I will be unto them for a God, and they shall be my people.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, In this manner spake David.
And ye shall call out in that day because of the king whom ye have chosen for yourselves, and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon him, and went down to Ashkelon; and he slew thirty men from them, and took their goods; and he gave a savoury garments unto them that told the dark, and was wroth, and went up to his father's house.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines fight against me, and God hath departed from me, and he answered me no more, by prophets, or by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And Jiphthah the Gileadite, a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead begat thah.
But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
There was no loss of anything, nor great, nor great, nor daughters, nor goods, nor stuff, nor any thing that they had taken away.
And as for us, Jesus went in unto us, and made a high priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
Now there were men lying in wait, while they tarried with her in the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, O son: and he brake the more away, as a thread of tow was broken when it toucheth the fire: so his strength was not known.
And he turned from him to another against him, and spake unto him in the same way: and the people answered him as before.
So now, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shall ye possess them?
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. And they rose up, and went away that night.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, that the earth was abated again.
And Joash, the son of Joash, came again from the battle, at the going up of the sun.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath commanded unto you.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And when he had finished speaking, he cast the jaws out of his hand; and that place was called Ramah.
When the ends of the blade, and the Maacathites, and the flesh-hooks, and the tongs, were set on the edge, and the thresholds.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been a shepherd of the flock for his father: if the lion or the bear should come, and carry off a sheep from the midst,
And there fell of Benjamin, eighteen thousand men, all these men of valor.
And there was much war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw any strong man, or any man of valor, he took him unto him.
And the woman came and spake unto her husband, saying, A man of God is come unto me, and his sight as the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible, and I have not asked him whence he was, neither hath he declared his name unto me.
And when David heard that the spirit was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath taken away my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil, and Jehovah hath returned the evil of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her as his wife.
And Joshua rose up, and went to the man, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake unto this woman? And he said, I am.
For it is known that our Lord came out of Judah, as the tribe of Moses spake nothing unto the priests.
Therefore I sent him the more speedily, that seeing him ye may rejoice, and I may be without sorrow.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Achan said unto them, Swear to me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.
And the report of God came to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of the Hebrews, to wit, looking toward the waste?
And the men of Israel have turned, and the men of Benjamin were troubled: for they perceived that the evil hath touched them.
and may my God supply all your want, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now for he came to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place.
and we have both straw and provender for our asses; and I have bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.
but consider the days after you saw the light, when ye passed through a great host of affliction;
And the candlesticks of gold, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines that belonged to the five lords, both fortified cities and villages of the song, they brought them as far as the great stone of Abel, whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, unto this day in the field of Joshua the Shiphmite.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded unto you.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the stronghold of Engedi.
Why didst thou hold quiet among the sheep? Why didst thou hear nothing, except the watchmen dance?
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Spirit offered himself unspotted unto God, cleansing our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?
And they rose up early in the morning on the morrow, and, behold, reed fell on his face toward the ground, before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon, and the two palm-trees of the hands were cut off at the threshold; only the fish was left unto him.
And the border of the Amorites ran from the ascent of the Akrabbim from the tent of Shelah and upward.
By faith Abraham, when he was tempted, he offered up Isaac: and he that received the promises was ready to offer his one and only son,
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the men of Israel rose up, even Judah, and shout, and pursued the Philistines, until thou came into the valley, and unto the gates of Ekron: and the Philistines fell down in the way of Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and to Ekron,
But day and night they were like a wall round about us, while we were with them, looking after the sheep.
And she looked out through the window, and cried, and the mother of Anathoth looked through the lattice. Why is his chariot so long in coming? why do the wheels of his chariots wait?
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou deceived me with the son of Jesse, giving him food, and a sword, and inquired of Jehovah for him, and with him that he might contend against me, that he should contend with me, and contend with me, as he is doing now?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into Midian seven years.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was left of all that belonged to him: he hath turned me evil for good.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth against him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Send the man back, and let him return unto his place whither thou hast appointed him, and go not down with us into the battle, and is not to us for an adversary in battle: and wherewith shall this man reconcile himself unto his master, is it not with the heads of those men?
Make an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the way, and bring the ox, and make a burnt-offering with the wood of the holy tree which is cut down.
For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the Ethiopians sought the land for itself to dwell in; for until that day it was not divided divided among the tribes of Israel.
And he said unto him, O Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And forget not to do good and to impart; for by such sacrifices is the favor of God obtained.
And he said unto him, Fear not: for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be next unto thee; and that Saul my father knoweth.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of offering, he sent away the people that had borne the gift.
and when he was found as a man, he humbled himself, being obedient unto death, death also of a cross.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring thy son to be slain, and cast down the altar of Baal, and cut down the holy tree that was by it.
And Saul said to the people that were with him, Take heed, I pray thee, and see: who is gone from us? And they looked, and, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not.
And it came to pass, when David returned again after the destruction of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, with songs and dancing, David with singing instruments, with singing, and with instruments of music.
behold, I will put a wool of wool upon the threshing-floor; if there be dew upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground, then shall I know that thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken.
The vengeance of God is upon David, If the morning cometh, And there is so much as one male of his people.
And when he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came: and Saul went out to meet him, and entreated him.
Ah curse, saith the angel of Jehovah, swearing, curse the inhabitants thereof; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And Saul saw, and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal Saul's daughter loved him.
And Jesse revolted before Samuel; but he said, Jehovah hath not chosen this man.
Salute all them that lead you, and all the saints: salute ye them that are of Italy.
And he said, His seed, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
looking stedfastly on Jesus the ruler, and made a distinction of faith: who, when the joy was laid before him before him, being uncovered, having despised shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And they answered, We will gladly give them. And they put down a robe, and cast every man into it, and he took them.
And Samuel answered and said, I am the seer: go up before me to the high place, and thou shalt eat with me this day; then I will send thee away in the morning; I will tell thee all that is in thy mind.
And Shema the son went and took three hundred the foxes, and took the rods, and turned tail to tail, and put a fire in the midst between two tails.
And the weight of gold rings which he took from them was one thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; besides the shields and jewels and the purple garments that were upon the kings of Midian, and the bands upon their camels' neck.
Do all things without murmuring and reasoning;
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for Jehovah repented for their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them, and crushed them.
Blessed be the sons of women: The days of Eber the Kenite are the life of Eber: she is blessed.
And he said, Behold, there is a man of God in this city, a mighty man: all that he saith, cometh to pass. Now therefore let us go thither, that he may tell us of our way, for which we are come.
And they killed the bullock, and brought the young man to him.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay down in the midst of the cliff, and his spear clave in the ground at his stead: but Abner and the people lay round about him.
And the watchmen shook upon Gibeah, and discomfited it, and put all the city to the sword without mercy.
And David departed from thence, and departed into the cave of Adullam: and when his brethren and all his father's house heard, they went down thither unto him.
And Jonathan said, Think not: and if I saw that my father offended thee, would I not tell thee?
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, and a cave was there; and Saul went in to recover himself; and David and his men were sitting at the cave of the cave.
And Baal-hanan the ruler of the city heard the words of Agur the son of Libnah, and his anger was kindled.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem Judah, and I go to sojourn where I shall find a place.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: and whithersoever he turned, he grieved them.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, and let all that we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever.
And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin were amazed: for they saw that evil was come upon them.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, If thou wilt hold me, I will not eat of thy bread: but if thou prepare a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah: for he hath not known that he was a messenger of Jehovah.
And David was the youngest; and the three elder followed Saul;
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake: for it hath pleased Jehovah to make you his people.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Do ye see the man of Jehovah, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king!
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that willingly offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and worshipped them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
Therefore, my beloved brethren, and my beloved, my delight and my crown.
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this more than the flocks, which sound in mine ears, and the herds that I hear?
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance, in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of mount Gaash.
And Midian was stronger than Israel; and because of Midian, the children of Israel digged for themselves in the mountains, and overthrew the rocks, and the strongholds.
And he made them much sore, and went down, and tarried in the cleft of the rock of Etam.
And it came to pass, that the way of them that dwell in the camp on the east side of Nobah, and the portion of a embroiderer, and he smote the host when it was left.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three bands, and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day; and it came to pass that those that were left were scattered, and there was none left of them.
but if thorns and thistles it shall bear, it is cast off, and cursed, whose end is to be burned.
( As in the past of Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, let us go to the seer; for he that is called in the name of his name prophesied in those days.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the hosts of Israel, which thou hast defied.
So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, What is the noise of this great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? And they perceived that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
Therefore did God also magnified him, and called his name above every name:
O Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, and passing by the regions of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens quench waters.
When ye come into the city, ye shall see him straight away, before he goeth up to the high place for the feast: the people stand before the beginning before the beginning; and after that the guests shall stand therein. So go up now, and ye shall see him.
and the peace of God, which surpasses every understanding, shall keep your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
And a certain woman cast an upper millstone upon Abimelech's head, and brake his skull.
and with such force that the issue went in after the blade into the wound, and was closed up with the abundance of fat; and he did not draw out the javelin, but left it in his body, as he had smitten it in; and immediately the roots of the belly came forth.
assuredly assured that God is able to raise up even from the dead; and a evil man speaketh, he also received him from the dead.
And I will go out, and stand beside my father in the field where thou art: and I will speak of thee to my father, and whatsoever I shall see, I will tell thee.
And he smote them from Aroer, until thou come to balm, twenty cities, even unto Abel the great slaughter, with a great slaughter; and the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And a brass of brass was upon his head, and he was clothed with a girdle of mail; and the weight of the body shields was five thousand of brass.
Now the sons of Eli were wicked men; they knew not Jehovah.
Why tarriest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the tender songs of the flock? For the courses of Reuben were increased.
But the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah, that we are in thine hand to give bread to thy army?
And they made him hooks, and he gave him to Ziklag: and Ziklag hath been the possession of the kings of Judah unto this day.
Rejoice not thy words of pride; Let not the glory of thy mouth come out of thy mouth: For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him is he that hath wrought.
And unto him repaired Ahijah the Pelonite; and he judged Israel ten years.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he shall deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So they ran, and took him from thence: and when he stood among the people, he was taller than all the people from his shoulders and upward.
And among all these men were seven hundred chosen men that were left, and every one of them could stone a stone at a head, and not miss.
And when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he charged them in the ears of Jehovah.
And the plague of Midian was humbled before the children of Israel, and did not lift up their head: and the land rested forty years in the days of purification.
The women received by a resurrection again their dead; and others being grieved, not greedy of the redemption, that they might receive again a better resurrection.
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and cut down twenty thousand of the children of Israel.
Now of the things we say this is the chief: We have such a high priest, who is standing at the right hand of God's throne of glory in heaven,
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and let us build the kingdom there.
And the battle prevailed for Saul, and the archers met him, and the archers wounded him.
Then said thus, Arise ye, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And when he arose, he rose up, and slew the perfection thereof, and they took the heads of them that were upon their camels' necks.
For if a man shall rise up, and persecute thee, and seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be kept, as in the days of the living, as the Lord thy God: but the souls of thy enemies shall be led away as with the violence and the whirling of a sling.
I have a virgin daughter, and this man hath a concubine, I will bring them out unto you, and ye may humble them, and satisfy your desire: only I beseech you, commit not this fault against the man.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee; for now the Lord would have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
And he said unto his lad, Go, and fetch me the arrows which I will shoot. And when the lad ran, he shot up another arrow beyond the child.
The men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
So Baal the son of Joash went, and dwelt in his own house.
Which we have as the outward parts of the soul, both of security and sure, and entered into that within the veil;
and through faith we know that the world were made manifest by the word of God, insomuch that the things which are seen were not made of things which are seen.
So with these words David kept his servants, and suffered them not to ride upon Saul. And Saul arose, and went on his way.
But they forgat Jehovah their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Kings came, they fight; Then they fought the kings of Canaan, At Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo; They took no spoil of silver.
But I thought to send unto you, my brother, my brother, and companion, and fellow-soldier, but your angel, and he that ministered unto my will.
There was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon, and they hated none else; and it was in the valley that lieth by Rehob: they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And his wife answered him, saying, If Jehovah had a mind to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and drink offerings at our hands, neither would he shew us all these things, nor told us the things that are to come.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanite, in the hill country, and the south, and the lowland.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons follow not in thy ways: so set a king for us to judge us, as all the nations.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el; now the name of the city before was Luz.
And we will be like all nations; and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and will fight against us our battles.
And David asked Jehovah, saying, I will pursue this troop, shall I overtake it? And he said unto him, Follow; for thou shalt surely overtake it, and thou shalt surely save it.
And she said, Surely I will go with thee; but there shall be no glory for thee in the way that thou takest, for Jehovah will sell unto thee unto the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Bera, and went with vermilion.
And it came to pass, when Saul came back from the Philistines, that David told him that David was in the wilderness of Engedi.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
And she sent, and called a son of Jerubbesheth the son of Naphtali, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah the God of Israel commanded thee? Go, go to mount Tabor, and take ten thousand men out of the children of Naphtali and Zebulun.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us so, that thou caldst us not, when thou wentest to fight with the Midianites? And they contended with him sharply.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life also, and thou shalt be saved with me.
And she shall be blessed above women, the wife of Eber the Kenite: she shall be blessed above the women in the tent.
And there was war again: and David went out against the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they fled before him.
And David took all the flocks, and drove the cattle before that cattle; and they said, This is David's spoil.
And David dwelt with him at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul that day, that day, that day, shut before Jehovah; and his name was Sheerah, the chief of the shepherds that belonged to Saul.
and he humbled himself, being obedient unto the point of death, that is, death on a cross.
But when Saul saw that he was very prosperous, he displeased him.
And Saul sent men to take David, and said, He is sick.
but encourage yourselves every day, as long as it is called day, that none of you be hardened by the deceit of sin.
But David saved neither man nor woman, neither brought he any of them to Gath, saying, Lest they should speak against us. So David did so, and all the days that he dwelt in the land of the Philistines.
Behold, thou hast seen this day how Jehovah hath given thee up into my hand even now in the clefts of the rocks: and some would have me put thee to death, but I had compassion upon thee: for I said, I will not forsake my hand against my lord, who hath anointed the holy oil.
For it is revealed, that out of Judah hath arisen our Lord, according to that tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
and go not hence, till I return unto thee, and bring a sacrifice, and offer it unto thee. And he said, I will wait thy coming.
And Micaiah said, With the jaws of an ass, heaps upon heaps, with the mouth of an ass I have slain a thousand men.
Behold, if it go up by the way of his own border unto Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance that came to us.
And one of the multitude of that place answered and said, Who is their father? And they told him, Is even Saul among the prophets?
And I beseech thee, as well as well as well as well, to whom the women who were in the good tidings contended with me, with the jointer also, and the others, my helpers, whose names are in the book of life.
There salute you all the saints, especially those of the house of Caesar.
Whence the first man was not opened without blood.
And Enoch was raised up unto heaven, so that he did not see death: he was found no more, for God took him away: for before he was received, he was told that he was acceptable unto God.
And the princes of the Philistines came up to her, and said, Distress him, and find out his strength so great, and how we can prevail against him, that we may bind him up in order to subdue him: every one of us shall give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
As for the rest, expecting till he lay his enemies under his feet.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And men lying secretly in wait with her, and in the chamber looking for the thing of the matter; and she cried unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines were upon thee, and he brake the bands, as it would break a thread of flax with fire, when it smelled the fire: so it was not known of his strength.
And he slew of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of Jehovah: and he slew of the people seventy men, and fifty thousand of the people. And the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And it came to pass, that Joash the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of Ophrah the Archite.
And it came to pass at the time of the harvest, at the time of barley harvest, that she took a young goat, and seeth his wife; and he said, I will go in unto my wife into the chamber of the bride; but her father would not let him go in.
And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning. And it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a pillar, and turneth about, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not, ye have done all this evil; only turn not aside from following Jehovah; but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And it came to pass, when they were by the house of Micah, that they knew the voice of the young man the Levite; so they turned aside thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? what is thou in this place? what hast thou here?
And I took her, and cut her in pieces, and sent the parts into all the borders of your possession; for there was no infamy, and the abomination committed in Israel.
And the holy tabernacle and the holy tabernacle, which Jehovah hath encamped, and not man.
And he said unto him, We are going from Bethlehem of Judah toward the side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehem Judah; but I am now going into the house of Jehovah; and there is none that receiveth me to house.
that ye are not slothful, but imitators of them, who through faith and patience shall inherit the promises.
For whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, And every son whom he receiveth will be punished.
Brethren, I number not to possess myself; but one that forget the things that forget the things behind, and that goeth out to the things that are before,
Behold, I will put a wool of wool upon the threshing-floor; if the dew shall be upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
But of whom of the angels hath he said, Stand at my right hand, till I put all that are against thee under your feet?
Now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And she sat under the palm-tree of Bohan between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went up unto her for judgment.
And it came to pass, that, the governor of the city, when he heard the son of Tabeel, heard him, saying,
And Israel set themselves in wait round about Gibeah.
And the two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood; but Jonathan returned to his house.
and to the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, the hearers of the hearers of that speak not to be said unto them,
And Saul sent his spear upon him, and sought to give him a wound: from which Jonathan his father thought to kill David.
And there was a judge of Israel for Israel six years. And afterward died the Gileadite, and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Girgashite, and the Amalekites; for they dwelt in the land for a long time in the direction of Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should shortly escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall despair of me, to seek me any more in any border of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
And the princes of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, stood in the assembly of the assembly of God, four hundred thousand footmen, armed with swords.
And Saul said, Give ear now, O son of Ahitub. And he answered and said, Here I am, my lord.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he said, Because this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
by faith he dwelt in the land of promise, as a foreign country, in tabernacles, having dwelt with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs of the same promise;
And he said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, a man of God in this city, and the man shall be glorified: all that he speaketh shall surely come: now let us go there, let us tell us our way wherein we have gone.
And they said, If ye shall send away the ark of the God of Israel, ye shall not let it go empty; for ye shall return unto him a trespass-offering: then shall ye be healed, and it shall be known unto you wherefore his hand shall not depart from you.
Be strong, and be full of men, O Philistines, that thou mayest not be bondmen to the Hebrews, as they have been unto thee; strengthen yourselves like men, and fight.
Jehovah forbid that I should stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed; but now, I pray thee, take the spear that is at his head, and let us go.
And the people, the princes of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this evil; yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And the name of God was a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
And he brake down the tower of Peniel, and slew the men of the city.
And when he came, behold, Eli was sitting on the throne by the side of the wayside, for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And the man came to tell it in the city, and all the city cried out.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Jehovah is hearkening between us, if we do not do according to thy word.
And the border of the Amorite was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
For we are the circumcision, who by the Spirit serve God, and glory in Christ Jesus, and believeth in the flesh:
And unto Jesus the new covenant, and to the sprinkling of blood that speaketh better than Abel.
But if I say unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel died, that the children of Israel returned, and played the harlot after the Baalim; and they made unto themselves Baal, even Baal, as God.
And they departed thither to go in to lodge in Gibeah: and he went and sat in the broad place of the city, and there was no man gathering them into the house to lodge.
And the Philistines called unto the priests and to them that used divination, saying, What should we do with the ark of Jehovah? make us fashion how we should send it to its place.
And a certain woman cast a piece of a mill upon Abimelech's head, and all to break his skull.
This day doth Jehovah shut thee up into my hand, and I will smite thee, and turn away thy head from off thee, and I will give the carcases of the camp of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beast of the earth; and all the earth shall know that God is for Israel.
Therefore Jesus was crucified without the wall, that he might sanctify the people by his blood.
And the olive tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fat, wherewith they honor God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and changed of garments unto them that breathed the dark; and his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
And all the elders of Israel gathered together, and came unto Samuel at Ramah.
And Enoch was interpreted, that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had interpreted to him: for before his departure he had this witness, that he pleased God.
And the king said, Ask thou whose son this, the young man.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
In that day I will raise up against you all the things that I have spoken concerning his house: I will begin, and I will make an end.
And she fled at his feet unto the tent of Jehiel the wife of Eber the Kenites, for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the house of Eber the Kenites.
And it came to pass, that she rode upon the ass, and came down in the mount country; and, behold, David and his men came down to meet her, and she met them.
And Jehovah raised up judges, and they delivered them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
Pray for us; for we know that our hearts are justified in all things.
And what shall I yet say? for the time will fail me that I had gained on, and mocked me, and Aholah son, and Iphtah, David also, and Samuel, and the prophets;
and these ten cuttings of the gourd thou shalt take unto the head of the thousand: and thy brethren shalt thou visit for welfare, and shall receive their pledge.
But the sons of men were vanity; they knew not Jehovah.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou commandedst me.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, which heard they that heard entreated that the word should not be spoken unto them any more.
And Abdon the son of Achbor, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And he said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And it came to pass, that, on the son of Joash, the son of Joash, the son of Joash, came back from the ascent of the wall.
Now when Saul's old friends saw him among the band of the prophets, the people said one to another, What hath come to Saul the son of Kish? is even Saul among the prophets?
But the high priest went into the second tent once a year, not without blood, which he prepared for himself, and the sins of the people in ignorance.
And David fled from Ramah in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee: we have forsaken our God, and served the Baalim.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son reign over you: Jehovah shall rule over thee.
And inquired of him concerning their estate. At that time the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there,
being full of the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
And he judges Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
The name of God came to Saul in Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid in the hill of the hill of the wilderness?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Say no more, lest men of fierce spirit rise upon thee, and destroy thy life, and the lives of thy people.
And it was told the name of Ornan the son of Eshtemoa, the son of Eshtemoa, and went up unto mount Tabor.
But the woman, at the dawning of the day, came to the door of the house where her master lodged, and there fell down.
But ye did well to have respect for me in my want.
And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt-offering unto me, and peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, the Girgashites, and the Amalekites: for they were the inhabitants of the land, that were of old, in the way to Shur, to the land of Egypt.
So Jonathan made a covenant with David's house, saying, Jehovah will require it at the hand of David's enemies.
And the trees shall go to anoint them a king; and they shall say to the olive tree, Thou shalt bring them upon us.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken; Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he shall give strength unto his king, And will exalt the horn of his anointed.
And he said, This shall be the king's office that shall reign over thee: he shall take thy sons, and appoint them to his chariots and his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots.
But if ye will yet do wickedly, and thy king shall perish together.
And he went into Gaza, and saw a woman a harlot, and went in unto her.
And after him repaired the spirit of Beth-lehem, the judgment of Israel.
So Saul and his men went to seek him; and they told David, so he went down to the rock, and tarried in the wilderness of Maon. When Saul heard this, he pursued David into the wilderness of Maon.
Now when these things were fulfilled, the priests went in continually into the first tabernacle, to fulfil the service.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To day if ye shall hear his voice,
Is it not this day of wheat? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and ye shall perceive, and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, to ask for yourselves a king.
And messengers was sent into all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take the waters before them to the Jordan, and the Jordan. And every man of Ephraim called, and they took the waters unto the sea, and the Jordan.
but exhort one another day, while it is called unto day, lest any one be hardened through the deceit of sin.
And the king said unto her, Fear not; what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god that cometh up out of the earth.
And it came to pass, as she prayed before Jehovah, that she took her mouth.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone away the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought the king of Amalek king of Amalek, and utterly destroyed the Amalekite.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not deliver thee from the Egyptians, the Amorite, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And it came to pass, when the morning was come, that the Levite was ready to go on his journey; and his father in law said unto him, I beseech thee to take a little food, and strengthen thyself, till the day is now grown up, and thou shalt go away. And they did eat together.
So Saul went up from after the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
And all the elders of Israel assembled themselves together, and came unto Samuel unto Shimei.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
And Shema the son lay until midnight, and rose up at midnight, and laid hold of the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and plucked them up, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
I will shoot three arrows to the side, And I will shoot three arrows.
And the man said unto certain, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled unto day out of the host. And he said, What is there done, my son?
And now stand thou, and see this great thing that Jehovah is about to do before your eyes.
So David took the spear, and the water of water which was at the head of Saul's head, and they departed: and no man saw it, or knew it, or awaked, and were all sleep; for a deep sleep fell upon them.
Shall the inhabitants of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And it came to pass, when the time was that Elkanah, that he gave to Shuppim his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: Jehovah is before you on the way that ye would go.
If ye then have dealt faithfully and truth with rebellion and his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you.
So David prevailed over the Philistines with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistine, and killed him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
And Eber the Kenites, who separated himself from the rest of the Kenite, of the sons of Achor, the brother of Moses, had put his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, Kedesh by Kedesh.
And it was so from that day, that he made it a statute and an ordinance unto Israel, unto this day.
And the five men that went out to spy out the land ( that is, Laish), answered and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there are in these houses an ephod, and an molten image, and a molten image? therefore then consider what thou must do.
And Elkanah her husband, and all his house, went up to sacrifice unto Jehovah the burnt-offering and his vow.
And he waited seven days, according to the set time that Samuel; but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Render to judgment perfectly. And Jonathan and Saul were chosen by lot, and the people went out.
Jehovah forbid me from stretching out my hand against Jehovah's anointed one: therefore, I pray thee, take the spear that is near his head and the pitcher of water, and let us go.
And the fig tree said unto them, Am I to give my new bread, and my good fruit, and go over the trees?
Then Saul drew near unto Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the seer is.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Thou, Lord, didst put the earth upon the foundation thereof; And the heavens are the works of thy hands.
Therefore great also God exalted him, and gave him a name, that which is above every name:
Mark, O kings; hear, O ye princes: I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah: I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee: and when ye arise early in the morning, and be light, then depart.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the band of the prophets, and Samuel in his stead, the spirit of God came upon Saul's men, and they became like prophets.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the torment of death, crowned with glory and honor, that he might taste every man by the grace of God.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not in the days appointed, and that the Philistines were assembled at Michmash.
Thus God rendered unto the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, in smiting his seventy brethren.
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Go up with me into my lot, and we fight against the Canaanite: and I will go, even I will go with thee into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
And it came to pass the next day after the new moon, the second day of the month, as David's place was empty, that Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why hath not the son of Jesse come to meat, neither yesterday nor to-day?
And David sent out spies, and learned that Saul was surely come.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand as at other times; and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely reign, and the kingdom of Israel shall stand in thy hand.
For verily he took not upon him the angels; but he took him the seed of Abraham.
Therefore receive this blessing, which thy servant hath brought unto thee, my lord, and give it to the young men that follow thee, my lord.
So Samuel made all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
for to me to live Christ, and to die gain.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the South, and in the valley.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid, as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And I rejoiced in the Lord exceedingly, that now ye are in length of old time in length of me; for ye also have been estranged, and lacked.
And David fastened on his sword over his weapons, but he tried in vain to walk about; for he was not instructed to use them. And David said unto Saul, I am not able to walk with these, for I am not instructed to use them. So David took them away.
And there was a certain captain of Shimeah unto him of mount Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of Suph,
Now the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
And they were near Jebus, and the day was far spent: and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, let us turn aside unto this city of the Jebusite, and let us lodge in it.
And the lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel was lying in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And he said unto her, Give me now a little water, for I thirst. And opening a skin of milk, she gave him drink, and put the covering over him again.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are here in Judah are afraid: and how much more when we go into the country of the Philistines?
And he smote of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote fifty thousand seventy of the men; and the people mourned, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
not that I speak as to me: for as unto me, I have learned in those things wherein I am, that I should be filled with myself.
The Holy Spirit shewed this, that the way of the most holy is not yet made manifest, even as yet the first tabernacle.
Then said Saul to his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me; but his armorbearer would not; for he was much afraid. So Saul took the sword, and fell upon it.
So Saul and his men went to seek. And they told David; and he came down from the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard, and pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And all the children of Israel that were hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when the Philistines fled, they went with their brethren in the battle, and there were with Saul about ten thousand men.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna fled, and pursued after them, he took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the camp.
On the morrow the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
Then was the priest's heart glad, and took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come true, we shall honor thee?
And I said, Now the Philistines came down unto me unto Gilgal; and I repented not the face of Jehovah; therefore I took myself strength, and offered the burnt-offering.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words which chastise him.
And his father and his mother knew not that it was from Jehovah, that he seeketh the assembly of the Philistines: and the Philistines reigned over Israel.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, to-day the day that Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do unto him whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. And David arose, and hid the skirt of Saul's mantle.
And the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the grave of his father in Ephraim's house.
And Saul's servants spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it not a light to thee in the king's son, seeing I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?
And Saul answered and said, He asked me that he might go to Bethlehem.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: but the name of the city was his name.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah answered him, Behold, the man of whom I spake unto thee, this man shall rule over my people.
And the spirit of Jehovah was unto Saul, and he sat in his house, and his javelin in his hand; and David was playing with the hand.
For on the one hand is a door, a door which is set away, because of the weakness thereof, and of the fulness of it.
For he taketh not by the hand, but taketh hold of the seed of Abraham.
For I have no one of men, who shall mark the things concerning you.
And this man went up out of his city at the days appointed to worship and to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts at Shiloh. And the two sons of meeting, and Ophni and Phinehas, were there the priests of Jehovah.
and that were in Hebron, and to the rest that were in those places, wherein David abode with his men.
and let us walk in truth, in certain faith, having loosed our hearts from sin and washed with clean water:
And his concubine, that he had in Shechem, bare him a son, whose name was Abimelech.
And the children of Israel took away the Baalim and the Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
And Saul said unto them, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for thou hast mercy on me.
And Samuel took a young lamb, and offered it as a burnt-offering to Jehovah; and Samuel prayed unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered.
And Samuel took the vial of oil, and anointed him among his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David with power. And Samuel returned to Ramah.
For in one place he saith of the seventh day, and God rested from all his works on the seventh day.
Pray for us; for we trust that we have a good conscience, in all things willing to communicate;
how will we escape, if we refrain so great a salvation which had the beginning, when it was spoken through the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by those that heard,
And he took the two midst of the pillars upon the top of the house; on which the house was established, and on which it was supported, one with his right hand, and one with his left.
Wherefore, coming into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and oblation thou didst not; and thou hast prepared a body for me.
The things that came unto you by my teaching and preaching, and which ye saw in me, do these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And he overlaid his legs with plates of brass, and put on his back a spear of brass.
And again, I will trust in him. And again, I and the children God hath given me.
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And the king said, Behold, thou shalt inquire, whose son is this young man.
And Naphtali did not destroy the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the cities of Abiram; and he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites the inhabitants of the land, and the Gittites, and the thresholds, and the thresholds.
And Samuel said, Why askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath departed from thee, and hath become thine adversary?
And she shall eat nothing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: and whatsoever I have commanded her, let her perform and keep her.
And Saul took three thousand of the best men out of all Israel, and went in search of David and his men on the rocks of the hill-country.
But ye have known, even ye, in the beginning of the gospel, that at the beginning of the gospel, when I came forth from Macedonia, no company was weighed with me to give, and to receiving only ye only.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out with one consent.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that there came a evil spirit from God upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David played with his hand, as he did day by day: and Saul had his spear in his hand;
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah, my horn is lifted up in Jehovah; my mouth is opened over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And they said, What is the trespass that we shall send back unto him? And they said, The number of the princes of the Philistines, five golden gold, and five golden courses, for one plague for you all, and for your princes.
And they said unto Ezekiel, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
For I have no man of mind, that will be mindful of you.
And he came, and blew the trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down from the mount country with him.
Let our lord now command thy servants that are before thee, to seek out a man that is skilful upon the harp: and when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, he will play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but thou shalt not accept thee; for the Lord will speak unto thee in the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with vermilion, and ran with vermilion.
And the child Samuel served Jehovah before the time of Jehovah; and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, and there was no vision broken.
Be obedient to them that lead you, and be subject: for these are keepers for your souls, as it is about to give account; that they may do this joy with joy, and not groan; for this profit is unto you.
But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: A sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth to war: and when they went forth, David prospered than all the servants of Saul, that his name was exceeding honored.
And they came to him, while he sat alone in the upper chamber. And they said, I have a word from God for thee. And he arose from his throne.
And there went out of the camp of the Philistines three companies to spoil: and one company went into the way of Dan to the land of Heth;
There is no man that hath no honour; but he is called by God, even as Aaron was.
Then the remnant went down to the nobles; The people of Jehovah went down for him against the mighty.
And her husband Elkanah said unto her, Do that which seemeth right to thee, tarry until thou be with him; only the Lord fulfil his word. So the woman left and nursed her son until she had weaned him.
Follow peace with all, and holiness, without which none shall see Jehovah.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they asked and asked, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a honorable man: all that he hath said, Let us go; now let us go thither; peradventure he can show us our way that we should go.
And when the woman saw that it was Saul, she cried with a loud voice, and said unto Saul, Why hast thou dealt falsely? for thou art Saul.
And the wicked spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul, when he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David prayed for him.
We will take ten men out of every hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred out of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to bring provision for the army, that we might fight against the Gibeah of Benjamin, and give it to it for the wickedness thereof, what it shaketh.
And Benjamin came out to meet them from Gibeah on the second day, and destroyed among the children of Israel ten thousand men, to the earth: all these were the sword.
And thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this high place, by the set in order, and shalt take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah, which thou gatherest down.
and thou shalt hear what they speak; and afterward shall thou be thy hands, and go down against the camp. And he went down, and made his young man prosperous, to the captains of fifties that were in the camp.
And they, Beth-shemesh, reaped the wheat harvest in the valley: and lifted up their eyes, they saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, O son, the son-in-law of the freewoman, because he hath taken away his wife, and giveth her to his companion. And the Philistines went up, and burned her and her father with fire.
What shall I say? for the time would fail me, if I told of riot in, Bered the son, Iddo, and David, and Samuel, and the prophets;
But shall not the man whom the Son of God be broken under foot, and the blood of the covenant wherewith he hath washed, hath been made as an common thing, and who hath not respect of the Spirit of grace, should be condemned for a very much worse condemnation?
Thou lovedst righteousness, and hatest iniquity; Because of this God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of joy more than thy fellows.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was in him, and he judged Israel. And he went out to fight, and Jehovah delivered into his hand the king of Syria, and smote him.
And they came into the land of Suph. And Saul said unto his young man that were with him, Come, and let us return, lest my father depart from the asses, and be sad for us.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
Then all the wicked men and the base of them that went with David answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have recovered, except to every man his wife and his children, that he may lead them away, and go.
For the man that cometh into his own works hath ceased, as God did of his.
And there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Imri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Hodiah, a Benjamite, a man mighty of valor.
And it came to pass after that the children of Judah went down to make war upon the Canaanite that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
And another went by the way of Beth-horon, and the third went on the way of the border, which is above the valley of Zoar, toward the wilderness.
And there was no wise craftsman found in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines had said, So that the Hebrews can not make swords nor spears for themselves.
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread; and they that were hungry are satisfied; yea, the barren hath borne seven: she that hath many children languisheth.
I therefore have not sinned against you, but ye have done me to war against me: Jehovah the judge judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And David was in all his ways, and Jehovah with him.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old: But that which is become old and waxed old, is near to flee away.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Then Micaiah called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I beseech thee, and strengthen me alone, O God, and I will be avenged, because of my eyes, upon the Philistines.
And Saul girded David with his armor, and put an helmet of brass upon his head; and he girded him with a coat of mail.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold, an evil spirit from God is troubling thee.
There is none to be holy as Jehovah; For there is none besides thee, neither is there any rock like our God.
And the princes of Issachar were with thah; and the sons of Issachar also was with a drove; he was sent into the valley to fetch him out; and the heart of the families of Reuben were great judgments.
who, being moved in the form of God, did not reckon it by God to be equality with God.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell, how was this wickedness?
And the man arose to go, and his father's father-in-law pressed him; and he returned, and lodged there.
then this shall not be for thee for a surety, or a stumblingblock of conscience for my lord, either by the shedding of blood without cause, or by my lord taking matters into his own hands: and when Jehovah doth good unto my lord, then remember thou thy handmaid.
And now, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: if Jehovah hath provoked thee against me, let him accept a present; and if the children of men are cursed they shall curse before Jehovah, because they have cast me out this day from being put into the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
By faith Noah, being warned of things, yet did not show up the ark for the salvation of his house, which he spake unto the world, and was the heir of the righteousness that cometh by faith.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a man? and who is thou in Israel? but why hast thou not watched over thy lord the king? for one of the people had come to destroy the king, thy lord.
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law.
And David heard that the spirit of Nabal was dead, and said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath taken away my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and his servant withhold from evil, and Jehovah sent back the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and spoke with Abigail, to take her to him for a wife.
Be the Lord judge, judge betwixt me and thee, and see, and judge my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And the inhabitants of Shechem sat on the tops of the mountains; and they smote all that went by the way, and plundered them; and they spake this word unto Abimelech.
Let not my lord, I beseech thee, look upon this man of Belial the Carmelite; for as his name is, so is he; so is the name of Nabal, and folly is with him; and I thy handmaid saw not the young men of my lord whom thou didst send.
only the gospel of Christ, that if I come and see you, or if I depart from you, I know you that ye are strong in one spirit, working together with one soul to the faith of the gospel;
This thing is not good, that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are the sons of death, who have not kept your master, the anointed of Jehovah: and now the king's spear, and the cup of water, which was at his head?
not that I have now received this, or have already been made perfect; but I am bold, if I should lay hold on that for which also I was received by Christ.
that ye may approve the better things, that ye may be pure and without offence unto the day of Christ;
in which God, willing to shew more abundantly unto the heirs of the promise, according to the dispensation of his purpose,
And when David's servants came, they told all these words in David's name, and then held their peace.
And his sons did not walk in his ways, but turned aside to gain, and took gifts, and perverted justice.
And the chief men of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy host?
And it came to pass, when they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the breaches thereof: but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak unto her, to bring her again; and his servant was with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house: and when the damsel of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
In the same time Christ Jesus and ever.
And the king said to Bidkar, Turn thee, and come against the priests. And the Edomite answered, and drew himself against the priests, and slew him in that day, fourscore and thirty men, and thirty men of linen.
And they dwelt all the borders of the Amorites from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness up to the Jordan.
Are they not all workers of spirits, who are sent forth as servants to them that shall inherit?
And David took of her hand that she had brought unto him; and unto her he said, Go up in peace unto thy house: behold, I have obeyed thy voice, and accept thy face.
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon; and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men, and followed after them to melt, and slew two thousand men.
And thou shalt make the molten images with thy sickness, and the avenger of thy land; and thou shalt glorify the God of Israel; it shall be that his hand shall be lifted up from thee, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
And Shema the son went down to Timnath, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And there came a son of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, and Abiathar his name; and he fled after David.
And the Spirit answered them, and said, Who is David? who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants that are in these days running away from their masters.
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die; for it is a god whom we have seen.
Some indeed preach Christ also of envy and strife; and some also of good will.
But the things that profit me, the same I have counted loss for Christ.
For where there is a will, it is a necessity for the death of him that created it.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Bohan, between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went up unto her for judgment.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard these words, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
For ye have compassion on them that were in bonds, and took with joy the spoiled of thine own goods, knowing that thou hast a good and a eternal substance.
For our conversation is in heaven, from whence we also, looking for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
Wherefore, because the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself also in like manner: that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is to say, the devil.
Then said the men of Beth-shemesh, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall it go up from us?
And the Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan against Ephraim. And when the inhabitants of Ephraim said, Let me go over, and let me go over. And the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou? If he said, No.
Salute every holy one in Christ Jesus: the brethren that are with me salute you.
And Achan said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he smote all his strength, and the house fell upon the rulers, and all the people that were with him: and the dead whom he slew in his death were more than they slew in his life.
And the servant answered, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver; I will give that to the man of God, and he will direct us.
But there was a tower in the midst of the city, and all the men, women, and the lords of the city, fled thither, and shut themselves in; and they went up to the roof of the tower.
But in the midst of the city there was a strong tower, which all the men and the women of the city fled, and encamped, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And inasmuch as it is not without oath; for they are become priests;
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Behold, women have been kept from us three days: and when I came forth, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was only a common journey: how much more then this day shall be holy?
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And Saul fell suddenly all on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel; and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And when the Philistines saw it, he saw David, and he had compassion on him: for he was but a child, and thirty thousand, and well favoured.
and a binding of brass upon his feet, and a javelin of brass between his shoulders.
Now when Samuel was dead, and all Israel wept for him, and had buried his city in Ramah, and had buried his city. And Saul had cast away all them that had familiar spirits, and wrought enchantments.
Now therefore, O king, come down; according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
So David arose and fled on that day from the face of Saul, and came unto Ahijah king of Gath.
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, Wherefore hath this come upon Israel, that one tribe is cut off from Israel?
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Let the woman be attentive unto all that I said.
And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, according to that which is in my heart and in my heart; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed continually.
Then the old man said, Peace be with thee; only let all thy will lie upon me; but stay not in the street.
And Eliab his first-born, when he heard that David said unto the men, was wroth against David, and said, Why hast thou come hither? to whom hast thou required the flock of sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the evil of thy heart, thou hast come down to see the battle.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have compassion on me.
whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath spoken, saying, Yet once I did not shake the earth only, but also heaven.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
For neither did he subject to angels the coming of the world, whereof we speak;
And he smote the city of the priests with the edge of his sword, both men and women, children, and infants, and ox, and ass, and sheep with the edge of the sword.
And he divided three hundred men into three companies; and he put into the hands of all them trumpets, and empty vessels, with lamps within the flagons.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the threshing instruments, and taught them the men of Succoth.
And ye shall hear what they say; and after that thy hands shall be strong to go down into the camp. And he went down with Potiphar his servant to the outermost part of the guard that were in the camp.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear; and let one of the young men pass over, and take it.
but a certain terrible hope of justice, And a fierce burning fire that will devour the adversaries.
Have I this day began to inquire of God for him? be it far from me; let not the king impute nothing to his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for thy servant knoweth nothing of all this, less or more.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and came as grasshoppers for multitude; for they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they rose up early in the morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Comfort thy heart with a piece of bread, and afterward go your way.
Now when these things were prepared in this way, the priests went into the first tent continually, as they accomplish their service.
Then Harbonah's wife, Eber's wife, took a nail, and a hammer, and went up to him quietly, and cast the nail into his head, and went through his head into the earth; for he was a deep sleep, and he died.
And he took ten men from his servants, and did as Jehovah spake unto him; and because he was afraid of his father's family, and the men of the city, to do it in the day, he did it in the night.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote the plague of Nabal, and died.
But he, because he remaineth for ever, hath the priesthood no more.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee: deliver us only this day.
Are they not divided, they divided not the stuff among them: a young damsel, or two to every man; and to Sisera of fine work, they wrought in fine colors on this side, and for the king's neck.
And he cried unto Jehovah, and he rebelled against Midian.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and we spoil upon them until the light of the morning, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, All that is good in thine eyes. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither unto God.
And when it was come to pass, behold, there was a man that told a dream to his fellow. And he said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream; and, behold, a cake of barley bread trembled into the camp of Midian, and came into the tent, and smote it so that it fell, and turned it upside down, that the tent lay down.
And the son of Shelemiah put his arms round about the midst of the pillars, and fastened the house, and set his weight upon them, and on the right hand, and on the other.
but set himself by taking the form of a servant, being in the likeness of men; and being found as a man,
And Samuel took Saul and his servant into the treasury, and caused them to stand among all the guests that were there, about thirty persons.
So he showed them the way into the city, and they put it to the sword; but they let the man and all his family escape.
Be ye imitators of me, brethren, and keep them that walk as you have an example.
Then Harbonah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye that dwell in Ephraim, ye are of Ephraim, and in the midst of Ephraim, and in the midst of Manasseh.
And David sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and speak kindly unto him in my name:
And behold, the men of that city in the night beset the house in which I was, intending to kill me, and put my wife to jealousy with a good wrath of lust, that at the last she died.
And thou shalt show kindness unto thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: but if there be iniquity in me, then slay me thyself: but why shall thou bring me to thy father?
And David said, Only in vain have I kept all that this hath in the wilderness, and none sought after all that he hath, and he returned to me evil for good.
And God sent a evil spirit between Abimelech and the lords of Shechem; and the lords of Shechem wrought with Abimelech.
and Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, the son of Ahijah.
Therefore, as we are so many a cloud of witnesses, having cast off every weight, and the sin into which we come, let us run to run in the way which is called for us;
And it came to pass, when Samuel was turned to pass, that Saul took the skirt of his garment in his hand, and the napkin departed.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, I beseech thee, Lord, that the armor of God, whom thou hast sent, may come again, and teach us what we ought to do concerning the child that shall be born.
It shall be quenched the power of fire, that escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness being made strong, waxed strong in war, and caused foreign armies to flee.
What then? but, every way, or in truth, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I will in it rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
Gilead dwelt beyond the Jordan; and Dan, why did he abide in the ships? Asher sat on the sea-shore, and dwelt in his own inventions.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that spoiled them; and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, that they could no longer stand before their enemies.
Give ear to them that are rulers over you, and do as they say, that they watch over your souls, that they may give account of them; let them be able to do this with joy, and not with sorrow, because that would not profit thee.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy host?
I am able to do all things by him that giveth me strength.
And horsemen went out into the porch, and shut the door of the upper chamber upon him, and shut them up.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
And he said unto him, O my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why have all this come upon us? and where are all his works of power, of which our fathers had spoken unto us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us out of Egypt? but now he hath delivered us up to the hand of Midian.
And it came to pass in the morning, that her master arose, and opened the door of the house, and went forth to go on his way: and he saw his colt, and stretched on the earth at the door of the house, with her hands on the stairs.
Let your testimonies be known unto all men; Jehovah is near.
If they shall fall away, to restore them again unto repentance; seeing they crucified the Son of God ashamed, and put him to shame.
Wherefore I have sinned against you, but ye do wrong against me: Jehovah, who is judge of this day, judge ye between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
But the children of Belial, the children of Belial, they know not Jehovah.
And Deborah was a prophetess, a wife of Laish; she judged Israel at that time.
From now now, expecting, till his enemies be made his footstool.
If he be able to fight with me, and smite me, then will we be your servants: but if I have overcome and smitten him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But I thought to send unto thee earnestly, my brother, my brother, and fellow-soldier, and fellow-soldier; but thy angel, and my servant,
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: and they set on fire all the cities that they came to.
And the six hundred men stood before the door, set with their arms.
Thou didst make him small less than messengers; Thou didst set him with glory and honor, And didst set him over the works of thy hands.
And Judah went against the Canaanite that dwelt in Hebron ( the former name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba); and they smote Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And they took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they put to death at the rock of Oreb; and as for as many as they were as the treading of the winepress; and they pursued after Midian; but the heads of Oreb and Zeeb they passed over the Jordan.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
With whom was he displeased forty years? was it not with them that sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
Would I would that this people were under my hand, then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Make thee thy army, and come out.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have cast him away from being king over Israel? make thy horn with oil, and go: I will send thee unto Jesse the Gilonite; for I have prepared a king for myself among his sons.
As to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things unto you, to me indeed is not carnal, but unto you it is necessary.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of an hill afar off; a great space was between them.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do that which is in Israel: he shall do the two ears of every one that heareth it.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and the border thereof.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she caused him to shave off the locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
Now therefore, my lord, the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, who hath withholden thee from coming to blood, and hath delivered thy hand unto thee; and now let thine enemies be as Nabal, and all that seek evil to my lord.
And after this he was in love with a woman in the valley of feasting, who was called by name.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to-day, and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
Why didst thou sit among the sheepfolds? To hear the suckling for the flocks? In the water-courses of Reuben, there were many that are of heart.
So the Avvites dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
But they that were gone into the house of the young man, went about to take away the graven god, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten gods; and the priest stood before the door, the six hundred valiant men, that stood not afar off.
For all seek the things that are their own; not the things which Jesus Christ's.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that pleaseth thy heart: go whither thou wilt, and I will be with thee whithersoever thou hast a mind.
Now in time past, in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he spake thus, saying, Come, let us go to the seer. For he that is called a prophet, the same was called a seer.
that this is not to thee for a stumblingblock, and for a trespass of heart to my lord, or to shed blood for nought, or that my lord would retain himself; and the Lord hath done good to my lord, and thou hast remembered thy handmaid.
And as Samuel turned aside, he laid hold on the skirt of his garment, and it rent.
And the children of Israel arose in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
If they say thus unto us, Abide till we come unto thee; let us stand still in our place, and not go up unto them.
So David went, and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the brook, or to the brook; and some were wearied there.
And Samuel said, Why askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath turned away from thee, and hath become thine enemy?
This is the covenant which I shall make with them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will remember my statutes, and write them in their heart;
who served a copy and the shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses had testified by God, when he was about to make the tabernacle; for he said, Behold, ye shall make all according to the pattern that was showed thee in the mount.
And God turned back the evil of Abimelech, which he did to his father to slay his seventy brethren.
Ask thy young men, and they will show thee; wherefore let the young men find grace in thine eyes: for we come in a good day: give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
And he gathered unto himself the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised up for them a saviour, and fourscore, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, and a left hand; and the children of Israel sent tribute unto Eglon king of Moab.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words: for I feared the people, and hearkened unto their voice.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain with man.
Follow your brethren in the faith.
Go and cry unto the gods that thou hast chosen: Let them save thee in the time of thy trouble.
Women received their dead again by the resurrection; and others were perplexed, not having received deliverance, that they might get a better resurrection.
Now Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hands in God. And he said unto him,
And they laid the ark of God upon the cart, and the little box that had in it the golden work, and the likeness of the fishes.
What are ye better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, hath he fought against Israel, or fought against Israel?
And they went trembling, and pursued after him: and they caught him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
But the men would not hearken unto him: so the man laid hold of his concubine, and brought her out unto them; and they had sex with her, and laid her all night until the morning. When the day began to dawn, they let her go.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this evil: yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all your heart.
Behold unto the dogs, look unto the evil workers, look unto the reproach.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be visited.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel slew of the Gileadites that day twenty and five thousand and a hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And the Syrians saw not Saul again till the day of his death; but Samuel mourned for Saul; and the pleasure of the Lord was not Amnon to be king over Israel.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him with all your heart: for what great things he hath done for thee.
And Gath the son of Hassenuah went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait.
And we shall take ten men out of every hundred, throughout all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand, a thousand out of ten thousand, to buy food for the people, that they may give to Gibeah of Benjamin the judgment of their shame in Israel.
And when his servant saw that Saul was dead, he did likewise, and was joined with him in death.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon made war with Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to Abelthah out of the land of Ahitub.
Now Naaman was very old: and he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel, and that they slept with the women that served at the door of the tent of meeting.
And the whole congregation sent some to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peaceably unto them.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring forth men, that we may kill them!
And the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
And they made for them the graven image of Micah, which he had made, all the days of the house of God in Shiloh.
who shall prove our body of subjection into subjection unto his body of glory, according to the working of power which he hath even to subdue all things unto himself.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, and they were also called to follow him; and he sent messengers throughout Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they went up to meet them.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his eyes.
Wherefore, therefore, let us approach to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace to help in time of want.
And they took their bones, and buried them in the stocks of Jabesh; and they fasted seven days.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee; for now Jehovah have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
and thou hast risen up against my father's house this day, and hast slain his sons, even seventy persons upon one stone, and made Abimelech, the son of his handmaid king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother:
This is the covenant that I will make with them: After these days, saith Jehovah, I will put my laws upon their heart, I will also write them in their mind; then he saith,
and not let yourselves be afraid of yourselves by your adversaries, which is a sign of destruction unto them, but of your salvation, and of God;
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron. And it came to pass, when the ark of God came unto Ekron, that the harlot cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to kill us and to our people.
Cast not away thy confidence, which hath great recompense.
And Saul sent for all the people to come to the battle, and went down to Kehelathah, to fight against David and his men.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him, as beforetime past.
But out of all the cities that were of their lot gathered themselves together into Gibeah, to help them, and to fight against the whole congregation of Israel.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall ye also and the king that reigneth over you remain after Jehovah your God.
Therefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And the king sat, as at other times, by the wall: and Jonathan was before, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but there was none in the throne of David.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah concerning Midian.
And Elon the serpent died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and told these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice and wept.
And Jehovah sent Nibhaz, and Naarah, and Iphtah, and Samuel, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies round about, and ye dwelt in safety.
And out of all these men were seven hundred men, men that were left, and every one with a stone in a head, and not idle.
And when David returned, after he was slain the Philistines, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with timbrels, and with timbrels.
who committeth adultery with strange gods, and worshipped them; and they hasted, and forsook the way wherein their fathers walked; and when they heard the commandments of Jehovah, they did all things contrary to them.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not: thou shalt not die.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, lay thy hand on thy mouth, and go with us, and be with us for a father and for a priest: is it better that thou shouldest be a priest unto the house of one man, or be the priest for a tribe and a family in Israel?
And they took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and as Zeeb; and they slew Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and as as as as as they were as the winepress of the winepress; and they pursued after Midian; and they brought the heads of Oreb and as far as it were beyond the Jordan.
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on mount Gilboa.
And they cut off Saul's head, and stripped him of his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the house of their idols, and among their people.
And it was said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ unto glory and praise of God.
And the men of the place answered Jonathan, and the armorbearer of his armor, and said, Come up unto us, and let us know something. And Jonathan said unto his armor, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath given them into the hand of Israel.
And make not a covenant with the inhabitants of this land; break down their altars. But ye hearkened not unto my voice; wherefore then would ye do such a thing?
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, whether it is better for you, that all the children of Jerubbesheth, which are threescore and ten persons, king over you, or that one kingdom over you? remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the children of Dan sent out of their families five men of valor, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Haran, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, see the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Jehovah hath done unto him, as he spake by me: for Jehovah hath torn the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, even unto David.
But now, the doors of the guard, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors, and the doors, and the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the doors of the doors, and the
Also I have also lent unto Jehovah: all the days that he liveth, he shall be lent unto Jehovah: and he shall worship Jehovah there.
Then thou shalt have no grief, and my lord's heart shall not be troubled, because thou hast shed thy life without cause, and hast condemned thy transgressions: and when Jehovah hath been good unto thee, then thou shalt consider thy servant.
And the mountains melted before the face of Jehovah, and Sinai before the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
But Jonathan heard not when his father commanded the people with the oath: wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth; and his eyes were lightened.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, that every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, until thou comest to Shur, which is over against Egypt.
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that tarrieth by the stuff; they shall part alike.
And there was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the place and the destroyers trembled, even they, and the earth trembled, and it became a trembling of God.
And ye shall look, and if it go up by the way of his border toward Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, we shall know that it is not his hand touched us, but it is found by chance.
But if they say, Come up to us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand, and this shall be the sign for us.
For it was right that we should have such a high priest, holy, and undefiled, and undefiled, and undefiled from sinners, and exalted above heaven;
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah would put us to death, he had not received from our hands burnt-offering and present, nor showed us all these things, nor as at this time make us hear thus.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, toward the sunrising of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and toward the south of Jokneam.
And they found a man, an Egyptian, in the field, and brought him unto David, and gave him bread, and he ate, and made him drink water.
Yet to abide in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
And he asked him unto Jehovah, and gave him provision: and the sword of Goliath the Philistines gave him.
But Saul had not spoken anything on that day: for he said, He hath delivered him: he is not clean, surely not clean.
the new and the living, which he hath dedicated for us by the veil, that is, his flesh,
And she said unto Samuel, Go down. If he calleth unto thee, then thou shalt say, Speak Jehovah, for thy servant shall hear. And Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And there is a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the life, and his name, whose wife was barren, and hath not borne;
And he went from thence unto the inhabitants of Debir; ( the name of Debir), which is Kiriath-sepher),
And the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither did we set anything, as long as we went with them, when we were in the fields.
And the man said unto him, I am he that came out of the battle, and I have fled this day out of the battle. And he said, What is my son?
Now therefore go, and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that he hath: spare him not, nor desire any thing that is his: but slay both man and woman, child and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and sheep.
And they called all the multitude of the Philistines to come together, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered them, saying, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken away to Gath. So they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
How shall we escape, if we refuse so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken of the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by those that heard him;
( for my father fought for you, and for your life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;
And all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel. And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not; for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Now take an ephah of this parched grain for thy brethren, and these ten loaves, and bring them quickly unto the camp unto your brethren.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed after them in the battle.
And he gave back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I had certainly sanctified the silver to Jehovah from my hand, for my son, to make a graven image, and a molten image; and now I will give it again to thee.
Therefore the first covenant was not sanctified without blood.
If he saith, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be wroth, then know that evil is determined by him.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart: for what great things he hath done for you.
And his mother made him a little coat, which she brought unto him in the appointed days, when she went up with her husband, to offer the sacrifice.
And Shebna, chief of the city, heard the words of Agur the son of Libnah, and his anger was kindled.
And when Moses had spoken every commandment unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood of bullocks, and of goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book, and all the people,
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Zoar; and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, at Ramah.
For the law is appointed, as the chief priests that have no infirmity; but the word of the oath which came after the law doth quicken a Son for ever.
And now stand, that I may plead with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
while Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and in the towns thereof, and in Aroer, and in the towns thereof, and in all the cities that are by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; wherefore did ye not bring them back at that time?
But the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he beat them in the house house.
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, verily manifold and Zalmunna, with whom ye have reproached me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zebah in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?
But, beloved, we are persuaded good things of you, and things that are with salvation, though we thus speak.
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart is glad in Jehovah; my horn is exalted in Jehovah; my mouth is great over mine enemies; for I have rejoiced in thy salvation.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear to me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, and that thou wilt not deliver me into my master's hand; then I will bring thee down to this company.
For I live Christ, and to die is gain.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And when their heart was merry, they said, Call for Shema, that he may recover us. And they called for Shema the son out of the guard; and he did before them; and they set him between the pillars.
And David rose early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and he took the food, and went as Jesse commanded him. And he came to the camp, while the armies went to the battle, and they lifted up the war crying.
For he subjected not the world to come, whereof we speak unto angels.
And what shall I say? For time would fail me to say about, Distress, Iddo the son, and Iphtah, David, and Samuel, and the prophets;
And when Saul returned from after the Philistines, he was told, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you, and I will be old and grele, and my sons, behold, they are with you: and I will walk before you from my youth unto this day.
And the others were made many priests, because they were not suffered by reason of death.
Now it was very old, that he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that waited at the door of the tent,
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him, and said unto him, Send the man back, that he may return unto his place where thou hast laid him; but he will not go down with us into the battle, lest he be a adversary to us in the battle: and by what could this man make himself favour to his lord? is it not with the heads of these men?
For every one that is greedy of milk in the word of righteousness; for he is a child.
And Jonathan said unto David, O Lord, the God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about to-morrow any time, or the third day, and, behold, if there be good toward David, and I will not send unto thee, and show it thee:
Salute ye every holy in Christ Jesus: there salute you the brethren with me.
And they said unto Joash, Bring out thy son hither, that he may die: for he hath destroyed the altar of Baal, and cut down his Asherah.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus by my presence again with you.
And the armed men of the host delivered Jonathan and his servant, saying, Come up hither to us, and we will see thee. And Jonathan said unto his servant, Come up after me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
If thou shalt fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not be rebellious against what Jehovah saith, and both thou and the king that statutes over thee shall follow Jehovah thy God, all shall be well.
And David spake unto Abishai the Hittite, and Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul into the camp? And Abishai said, I will go with thee.
And David said, Thou shalt not do this, my brethren, after that which Jehovah hath delivered us, who hath delivered us, and delivered up the band which came against us into our hand.
and Micaiah, who was beside the side of the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse come to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And she fastened it with the nail, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, O son: and he awaked out of his sleep, and went away with the nail of the wood, and with the veil.
And Micaiah said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed down with all his might; and the house fell upon the nobles, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew in his death were more than they that he slew in his life.
to whom Abraham also divided the tithe of all, who was the beginning of the interpretation, even the king of judgment; and then king of Salem was king of peace.
And when Jotham heard of it, he went unto the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice, and said unto them, Hear me, ye inhabitants of Shechem, that God may hear you.
And when he had been, he gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the bare of the Arabah to the brook of Kishon.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, and was a child, clothed with a linen ephod.
Then said Samuel, Wherefore ask thou of me, seeing the Lord is departed from thee, and is thine enemy?
And where there is of these remission, there is no more a sacrifice for sin.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for see how great things he hath done for thee.
And when three courses blew the trumpets, and brake the bottles, they held in their left hand the lamps, and in their right hand the trumpets for blowing; and they cried, A sword for Jehovah, and for it.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their camp to battle, to fight against Israel, and said unto David, Thou shalt surely know that thou shalt go forth with me into the camp, thou and thy men.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards;
And Saul said, Bring me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
And David fled from Paddan-aram, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
Then came out ten thousand men out of all Israel out of all Israel; and the battle was hardened: they perceived not that evil was touching them.
Then Saul was moved to anger against Jonathan, and said unto him, Thou son of an wicked and rebellious woman, hast I not seen thy love to the son of Jesse, to thy shame, and the nakedness of thy mother?
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath multiplied women without children, so now thy mother shall be childless among women; and Edom was cut up by Samuel, bone of the bones, before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But now at the end of these days, it came unto us through his Son, to whom he hath given all things for an inheritance, and by whom he made the order of the generations.
And he said unto his men, Far be it from me in Jehovah, that I do this thing to my lord, to the anointed of Jehovah, to stretch out my hand against him; for he is the anointed one of Jehovah.
five master the ships of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwell on mount Lebanon; from mount Baal Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath.
And the lad knew nothing; but Jonathan and David knew the matter.
And she said, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a dry land: give me also a land of water. So Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
And the watchmen of Saul, who were in Gibeah of Benjamin, looked, and, behold, a great multitude was overthrown, and fled this way and that.
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do in Israel, which shall cause the ears of every one that heareth it to tingle.
And his father-in-law, the father's father, besought him to tarry with him three days; and they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man of war? is there any other like thou in Israel? why hast thou not spared thy lord the king? for one of the people came in to slay the king thy lord.
But when they had rowed, they waited, and passed beyond the stone images, and went into Zoar.
So Samuel lay down until the morning; and he opened the doors of the house of Jehovah: but Samuel was afraid of telling the vision to Naaman.
And the Amorites flayed the children of Dan to the mountain; for they had not suffered them to go down to the valley;
And now this blessing which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
As for what thou hast spoken, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel, and my family, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why dost thou speak such words unto me?
And Saul said unto his servants, Search for me a woman that is a familiar spirit, that I may go to her and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, a woman is a familiar spirit in Endor.
But if they say this, Come up to us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand: this shall be the sign unto us.
And Saul said unto David, Thou canst not go to this of the Philistines to fight with him, thou shalt be a child, and he shall be a man of war from his youth.
So that the thoughts of the things that are in heaven should be purified with these: but the heavenly things themselves with sacrifices than these.
And as to Sisera, he gathered all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the chief of the nations, unto the river Kishon.
All things thou didst put under his feet: for in the same giving him all things, nothing did he leave unto him without subjection: and now we have not yet seen all things made subject to him.
the word of the life, being out, for glorying unto me in the day of Christ, that I run not in vain, nor have I laboured in vain.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken our God, and serve the Baalim.
if by any means I may obtain the resurrection from the dead.
Yet they had a iron for the waste, and for the stork, and for the flesh-hooks, and for the axes, and for the tongs, and to the pipe.
And I will blow with the trumpet, I and all that is with me, and ye shall sound the trumpets together, even ye all round about all the camp; and they shall say, For Jehovah and for a stay.
And Samuel said, Behold, I pray thee, king of Amalek king of Amalek. And he brought him out of all his welfare, and discomfited him. And Ahaz said, Is it full of death?
And Libnah sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast ye to do with me, that ye have come to me to fight against my land?
( Now her husband's wife was moved to wrath, to make her sharply, because Jehovah had shut her womb.)
And Samuel spake unto the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote in a book, and set before Jehovah: and Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his own house.
to set Israel to try, and see if they will keep the way of Jehovah, walking therein according to their fathers, or not.
And the name of Saul's wife was AchAhinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, the brother of Saul's father.
and see, and know of all the places where he hideth himself, and ye shall return unto me, and I will go with you: and it shall be, if he be in the land, that I will search him out through all the thousands of Judah.
But I much more entreat to do this, that I may shortly be converted to you again.
And God did so that night; for it was dry upon the fleece of the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the earth.
For ye know how that when he had possessed the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no more of repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and drew near unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
And, behold, I will send the lad, saying, Go, find the arrows. If I say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon this side of thee, take them; for there is peace for thee, and it is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah commanded them, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for Jehovah was moved by their groaning because of them that hated them.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribes, and to his family; and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
And Jehovah said unto them, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hand, lest Israel exalt me, saying, My own hand hath delivered me.
And he said, This shall be the king who shall reign over you: he shall take thy sons, and appoint them for himself, upon his chariot, and upon his horsemen, and shall run before his chariots;
And he went from thence the inhabitants of Debir: now the name of Debir before was Kirjathsepher.
And Zacchaeus said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them before me, shall I be your head?
And Saul said, Draw ye hither, all the heads of the people; and know and see that this sin is this day.
The river of Jeshurun took them away, And waited their flight, the stream of Kishon. Praise, O my soul, to the strength of Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my heart; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before my anointed for ever.
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were about seven days.
And Amaziah said unto Shammai, Hitherto thou hast played upon me, and speak unto me lies: tell me what thou shalt be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shalt wear the seven locks of my head with the veil.
And he ran to him, and said, Here I am, because thou hast called me. But he said, I called thee not; go, and lie down. And he went and lay down.
And Abimelech said, Against whom hast ye smitten this day? And David said, Unto the south of Judah, and against the south of the ascent, and against the south of the Kenite.
And it came to pass, that all his acquaintance before, behold, and, behold, he prophesied with prophets; and the people said one to another, What is this come to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the business was in hand, and shalt abide by the stone;
But they that are out of strife, preach the Christ, not fast, supposing to stir out affliction for my bonds.
Brethren, I would not consider myself to have laid hold of it: but I do one thing, that forget the things behind, and move before them before.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that have oppressed you;
When he saith above, Sacrifices and offerings, and whole burnt-offerings, and offerings for sin, ye did not want, nor did ye delight in, which are offered after the law;
that no one that is spiritual, or spiritual, like Esau, who hath sold his birthright.
who is made, not according to the law of the flesh, but after the power of an perpetual life.
And the six hundred armed men of the Danites of trouble stood by the gate.
At this time I will send unto thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel, and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have seen my people; for the cry thereof came unto me.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes: I will sing unto Jehovah: I will praise Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And it spake again, and said, Behold, men are coming down from sheaves; and there is a division between the face of the sons of Heth.
And when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, thou saidst unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
and the sons of his body, the offspring of his body, had compassion; for he had a number of wives.
But if it be to live in the flesh, this is fruitful work for me; and I will not know that I will not know.
Then Saul came to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the seer is.
And he said also unto the men of Peniel, When I shall return safely, I will rend this tower.
For men also swear by the greatest, and an end of all controversy unto them to confirm the oath.
But if ye can not tell me, then shall ye give me thirty and thirty changes of garments. And they said unto him, Put out thy riddle, that we may hear it.
Then he reared up the sticks, and set the foxes out of the harvest of the Philistines, and all the pipe, as well as the harvest, and the vineyards, and the olive-tree.
but bringing forth thorns and briers, it is found vanity, and near to a curse, whose end is burning.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they took; and they went and returned unto their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Meunim, and the Hivite that dwell in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath;
Go now, and smite Amalek with the sword, and slay all that are without mercy: slay every man and woman, every male child and suckling, every ox and sheep, the camel and the ass.
So David's young men came and spake all these words into the name of the Spirit of David. Then they waited.
But I have in all things abound and abound; I am full, having received of you the things that is made unto us, the things whereof is of you, an pleasant savor, an acceptable sacrifice, acceptable unto God.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him with power, and rent as he was, and plucked the lion in twain, and he slew him: but he did not kill his father and his mother.
Arise, arise, and join; arise, get up, arise, and utter a song: Arise, and draw thee out of thy captivity, O son of meeting the wild-ox.
And I delivered you out of the hand of Egypt, and from the hand of all your oppressors, and drove them out from before thee; and I gave thee their land.
And Israel set themselves in wait against Gibeah round about.
And the house was full of men and women; and all the princes of the Philistines were there; and, behold, three thousand men of both repaired from the roof, and the upper part of the house, behold, the king's played.
And David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a mountain afar off, with a great space between them.
For every high priest took from men of men, in the things that were written unto God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins;
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread: if the children have been kept only of women.
And the lad Samuel served before Jehovah: and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; a vision was not sore.
and to them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David himself, and his men were in their stead.
And Samuel saw Saul no more until the day of his death: but Samuel mourned for Saul, because Jehovah repented that he had made him king over Israel.
And it came to pass, that, behold, there was a man that told his friend a dream, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream, and behold, a cake of barley bread is turned into the camp of Midian: and it came into the tent, and smote it, and fell, and turned it upward, and the tent fell down.
In that day I establish unto Nob all that I spake unto his house, beginning and finished;
But Hanun gave him a portion, because Hanun loved: but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
who hath not yet day by day, as the high priests, first to offer up sacrifices for his own sins, then the men of the people: for this he hath done all that he had prepared himself.
And he gave him in that day in that day, and Ziklag, and he was to the kings of Judah unto this day.
Wherefore he ought to be made like unto the brethren, that he might become a kind and faithful priest in the things with God, to make the propitiation for the sins of the people;
And no man that is not redeemed by God, as Aaron was, taketh this glory for himself.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall die; or he shall go down into battle, and shall perish.
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of the things which were hereafter,
And he chose three thousand from Israel; and two thousand men were with Saul at Michmash in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin: and he sent the rest of the people, every one to his tent.
And when he had said thus he fled, and went into Bera: and he dwelt there for fear of Abimelech his brother.
Now therefore, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And thou shalt change them as a garment, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
So David hid himself in the field: and when the moon was come, the king sat down to eat food.
And again the Lord called Samuel a third time, so he rose up, and went to Naaman, and said, Behold, I am, because thou hast called me. Then Naaman perceived that Jehovah was calling the child.
And he had thirty sons that rode upon thirty asses, and had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth-jair, unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
and being manifested as a man, he took the lowest place, and died, even the crucified.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and those that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled. And the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and mourned for him, and buried him at Ramah. Then David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And David smote the land, and had not kept alive man and woman, and had taken sheep, and oxen, and asses, and camels, and raiment, and returned, and came into Ahijah.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever; and now thus saith Jehovah, Far be it from me; for they that honour me will I honor; and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and were spread out in a troop.
the Holy Spirit testifieth by this that the way into the holy place had not at that time was opened, while the first tent was yet in being;
But this priest, for his life endureth for ever.
Ye had no joy in burnt-offering, nor in burnt-offering.
And after a long time, he called a certain day, and spake in David, saying, This day, as he spake before, behold, if thou wilt hear his voice, be not stiffnecked,
And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it unto thee.
And Tilgath-pilneser sent for Zebulun and Naphtali to dwell; and ten thousand men followed him; and Deborah went up with him.
Speak of me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whether I take any man's ox or ass: if I have wronged any man, if I have wronged any man, if I have taken a bribe at any man's hand; and I will despise it this day, and will restore it unto you.
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
and being found in an figure as a man, being humbled himself, being obedient even unto death, and that death of cross.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out, and came before them.
And he went up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath-serah of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take her for me as wife.
And the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel, and said, Nay; but a king is over us.
And the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer wrought was about twenty men, as it were at the mortar of the sea of Mamre.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but much more now in my absence, with fear and trembling work out of your salvation.
And they were sore oppressed by them: and they made themselves in dens, and in the mountains, and strong places to withstand.
And it came to pass, as she came, that she urged him to ask of her father the field; and she alighted from the ass. And Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou?
And he said unto him, We are passing over from Beth-lehem in Judah, unto the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, where I am from: and I went to Bethlehem in Judah: but now I go into the house of Jehovah, but no man took me in to lodge the night.
And the Philistines laid hold on him, and put forth his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he ground at the mill in the prison.
that he may save all that come to God by him, because he liveth to make supplication unto God for ever.
And now art thou better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he contend with Israel? did he fight against them?
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou art come unto me with the sword, and with shield, and with shield: and I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the hosts of Israel, which thou hast reproached.
Then David sent ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to the cup of Nabal; and salute him in my name.
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah ( and the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days.
They were stoned, they were amazed; they were tempted; they were slain with the sword; they went about in sheep bottles, and in the goats skins; they were destitute, and afflicted,
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, that I may pray to Jehovah for you.
And the men of the forces answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will shew thee something. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
So when he was waiting for many days, the word of God was fulfilled.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of the bakers, hozjah and Phinehas, were slain.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Thou son, the son's son's son's son, because he took his wife, and bare her unto his friend. So the Philistines came up, and bare her father's house.
And when the people came into the forest, behold, the honey dropped, but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And it came to pass in those days, the Philistines gathered their forces together to fight against Israel. And they said unto David, Thou and thy men go out with me to battle.
Yet thou hast forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore will I save you no more.
And he went out from thence to fight against Benjamin, and smote the city.
who came not according to the law of the flesh, but according to the power of an perpetual life;
Therefore thou shalt cry in that day because of thy king whom thou hast chosen for thyself; but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And David laid these words in his heart, and was greatly afraid of the face of the Syrians king of Gath.
Therefore let the Lord judge, and plead between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me from falling into your hand.
And the men of Israel went out to battle with Benjamin; and the men of Israel set themselves in array with them, even the battle against Gibeah.
And these are the golden things that the Philistines, which the Philistines have sent, shall be a trespass-offering unto Jehovah; to Gaza one, for Ashkelon, one; for Ashkelon, one, for Ekron,
And the Philistines said, I will surely denounce the battle against Israel: give me a man, that we may fight every other.
And David also took the Jezreelitess of Jezreel; and they were both of them, even his wives.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with a staff? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And she arose, and bowed herself down to the ground, and said, Behold, thy handmaid for a handmaid to wash the feet of my lord's servants.
being only, with meat and drinking and divers things,) the carnal ordinances, set unto a time of repentance.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left of thy house shall come to bow unto him for a little piece of silver, and for a cake of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priesthood, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
And now are thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? he hath fought against Israel, or fought against them.
And he went down from her feet, and fell, and lay: and between her feet he went down, and fell; and where he went down, there he fell down, even dead.
and in all my petitions for you, making my request with joy.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
And now, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have asked for; and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
with whom she said, In Isaac thy seed shall be called.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they set the Canaanites to taskwork, without casting them out.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things; and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Saul said unto his servants, Give me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges in their days, he was moved to compassion, and heard the noise of the afflicted, and delivered them from the slaughter of the oppressors.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell slain on mount Gilboa.
And David left his chariot in the hand of the keeper of the chariot, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and their border did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorite.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and had a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
And the children of Israel returned from reason after the Philistines, and plundered their camp.
And it came to pass, when he remembered the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne by the side of the gate, and brake his neck, and died; for the man was old, and heavy; and he had judged Israel forty years.
not turning aside the gathering of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhort one another; and so much more, as ye see the day.
Neither showed they mercy to the house of Jerubbesheth, which was set on, according to all the goodness which he had showed unto Israel.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem all these words. And their heart pursued after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And she fled in the place of the tent of Jehiel the wife of Eber the Kenites; for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the house of Eber the Kenites.
In those days the Philistines gathered their armies together for war, to fight with Israel. And they said unto David, Know certainly that thou shalt go out with me in the army, thou and thy men.
And the children of Israel did evil again before Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of the Syrians, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us now pass through thy land into our land.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to thy neighbor: is not her younger sister more than she? take her, I pray thee, for her.
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was greatly afraid of Ben-hadad king of Gath.
So Israel laid up men round about against Gibeah, to vex it.
And the Jews began to reign for the judges of Israel six years: and he died, and was buried in his city of Gilead.
And he had two wives, the name of the one repaired; and the name of the second was Obil; and the children of the children was Jaziz, and Hanun had no children.
But in them are the memory of sins every year.
And thou shalt watch: if it go up by the way of the border unto Beth-shemesh, he hath caused this great evil to come upon us: but if not, then we will know his hand hath not smitten us; it was by chance that this happened unto us.
And all the trees say unto the thorns, Come thou, O king over us.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt look upon the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thine handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
Wherefore thus saith the Holy Spirit, To-day if ye shall hear his voice,
Wherefore he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
And Joshua sounded the trumpet in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down with him, he himself went before.
And God rewarded the evil, that Abimelech had done against his father, smiting his seventy brethren.
And unto which of the messengers said he ever, Sit at my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
And it came to pass, when it was the fourth day, that they said to Caleb's wife, Put thy husband, and tell us the riddle, or let us burn thee, and thy father's house with fire: have thou called us to rob us?
And afterward they went down, and fought against the Canaanite, who dwelt in the mountains, and in the South, and in the lowland.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that hath given me that hath no son, when my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse: and there is none of you that is grieved for me, or hath brought me up, that my son hath stirred up my servant as a guest at this day?
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Iphtah-el, Because Israel took my land when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and to the Jordan; and now restore them in peace.
And Saul took for himself three thousand men of Israel, of whom he had two thousand with him at Michmash and in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand of Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he returned unto their tents.
It repented me that I have made Saul king: for he hath forsaken me, and hath not executed my commandments. And Samuel was grieved, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but no man answered. And he took her upon the ass: and the man rose up, and went to his place.
whose voice was the cause of the shaking of the earth; but now he hath sworn, saying, There will be yet more shaken, not only of the earth, but of heaven.
Should the possessors of Keilah shut me up into his hand? Shall Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, declare, I pray thee, unto thy servant. And Jehovah said, He shall come down.
And Jehovah hath done for himself as he spake by me; and Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and gave it to thy neighbor, unto David.
And as for the matter which thou hast spoken, behold, Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
And when all the lords of the tower of Shechem heard, they went to the vault of the house of God.
So the children of Dan sent five men from among their number, mighty men, from Zorah, and from Jaakan, to look in the land, and sought it; and they said unto them, Go and spy through the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to the house of Micah.
And it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended up in the flame of the altar; and a man and his wife looked thereon, and fell upon their faces to the ground.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath smitten the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine good men than thee.
So he took him down, and there they were, and spread out over the face of all the land, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Having therefore a great high priest that passed through heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
And David said, Wilt thou bring me to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee unto this company. And David sware unto him.
And David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and served the Baalim.
Now when Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented with him, and they had buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away the spirits and the soothsayers out of the land.
that your glorying may be more abundantly in Jesus Christ for me by my coming unto you.
He shall tithe your flock, and ye shall serve him.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye found not anything in my hand. And the people said, He is witness.
And Jonathan told David, saying, My father Saul is tried to kill thee; now, I pray thee, take care: in the morning thou mayest lodge in the secret place, and hide thyself.
And the slain of the fire shall be put out, and the slain of the sword shall escape, they shall be strong from weakness, and shall be strong in battle; they shall put the battle to flight.
But now hath the high priest of the gospel to be fulfilled, through this greater and undefiled, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this world;
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, she will I give thee for a wife; only be thou to me for a valiant son, and fight the battles of Jehovah. And Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice,
because thou hast not done what Jehovah hath said, and hath not executed his wrath against Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done unto you this day.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked of Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us before the Canaanites, to fight against them?
For consider him that hath borne such against himself such strife against himself, lest ye be weary and faint in your mind.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give me bread of bread unto the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I will pursue after Zebah and as Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And it shall come to pass after that thou comest to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither into the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp, and a tabret, and a pipe, and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy:
So Saul commanded the people, and numbered them as lambs: two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand of the men of Judah.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Give me that part which I have commanded thee to keep by thee.
Then, indeed, we have had the fathers of our flesh, and we worship him, and worshipped: shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of the spirits, and live?
because for the sake of the work of Christ, he came nigh unto the point of death; he reigned his life, that he might make up for thy ability to serve me.
But no correction at the time is to be of joy, but of sorrow; but afterwards bringeth forth the fruit of the righteousness of righteousness unto them that have practised it.
Is it not this day of wheat? I call unto Jehovah, and he will give sounds and rain; and know ye, and see that your evil is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, to ask for you a king.
The first also was the ordinance of God, and the holy sanctuary.
And Samuel kept where he was, that he should not move until the time to open the doors of the house of God in the morning. And they kept him afraid from giving him a account of his vision.
And the Spirit of Jehovah went from Saul, and the spirit of Jehovah was troubled.
And Jonathan stripped off the robe that he was, and gave it to David, and with his arms, and with his sword, and his bow, and his bows.
And the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And she called the lad, saying, The glory is gone out of Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and for her father in law, and her husband.
Why do ye harden your hearts, as Egypt and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? did not he, when he was smitten, let them go, and they departed?
For ye know that many after, when he obtained the blessing for his inheritance, he was turned away, though he besought them often and with weeping; for the time past were not changed.
And he took it upon his hand, and went and fasted; and he went unto his father, and unto his mother, and gave them; and they did eat; but he did not tell them that he took down the honey of the lion.
Let our lord command, and thy servants that are before thee require a man skilful in playing on the harp, that when the evil spirit from Jehovah is upon thee, he may play with his hand, and thou mayest bear it again.
Even so Christ also was made ready to change the sins of many; the second time he shall appear without sin unto them that wait for him unto salvation.
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and destroyed in Israel on that day two and twenty thousand men upon the earth.
He bowed down at her feet, he fell, he layeth it; and he bowed down, and fell down; and where he worshipped, there he fell down dead.
And the priest said, The sword of the city of the Philistines, whom thou didst smite in the valley of Elah, behold, it is opened in a garment behind the ephod, if thou shalt take unto thyself, take it; for there is no other save it. And David said, There is none like it, give it to me.
And she said, Let thy servant find favour in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat; and her countenance was not sad any more.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons that were riding upon him, upon threescore and ten asses: he judged Israel for eight years.
And David went from thence, and hid in Adullam; and his brethren, and all his father's people, heard of it, and went down to him there.
and Sheva the son's wife was to his companion, whom he had made his friend.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to whom he had his portion, his mamack, his axe, and his molten iron.
And the Spirit of Jehovah moved him at the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother: As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst saved them alive, I would not kill thee.
And when thou shalt depart from thence, and go on, and come to the oak of Tabor, there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Beth-el, one bearing three kids, and another three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
But I will raise up for myself a sure priest; he shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my soul; and I will build him a everlasting house, and shall walk continually before my anointed one for ever.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us shall give his daughter as wife to Benjamin.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and the company of many thousands of angels;
And they killed the bullock, and brought the child to Boaz.
of whom we have much to say which it is hard to make manifest; for ye are patient.
God, who, in the dry times, and in divers seasons, spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets, last of all;
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, greatly delighted in David.
Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, Jehovah answered him not by dreams, by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they perceived that the ark of Jehovah came into the camp.
even though he were a Son, yet he knew obedience of the things which he suffered;
And thou hast forgotten the consolation, that speaketh unto you as unto children, saying, My son, forsake not the chastening of the Lord; neither be thou weary while thou rebuke him.
and he sware by him that said unto him, The Lord sware, and will not repent, thou a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Oholah the son, that he may make us sport. And they called for Shema the son out of the prison-house; and he made them sport: and they set him between the pillars.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, that we may draw them out of the city into the highways.
who stood only in dinner and drinking, and divers things with sorceries and ordinances, laid upon them until the time of repentance.
And let not thy lovingkindness be cut off from my house, even when Jehovah hath destroyed all the enemies of all David, and cut them off from the face of the earth.
And David smote his men by words, and had not suffered them to rise up against Saul: and Saul rose up from the cave, and went on the way.
And he that was not reckoned by genealogy of them received tithes from Abraham; and he blessed him.
So Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand: and he went before the people.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in hearing to the voice of Jehovah? Behold, let us be better than the sacrifice than the sacrifice of the fat of rams.
And of the perfect men the strong bread, that for the use of the use, unto the knowledge of the good and of evil.
And they said, It is a possession of a remnant that escapeth unto Benjamin, and a tribe is not blotted out from Israel.
For if we sin how we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins:
To morrow, about this time, I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be captain over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
for I know that it shall turn forth to me for salvation in your prayer and in the power of the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have pity my cause.
And Jehovah visited Hanun, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child of Samuel grew forth before Jehovah.
Wherefore Jesus therefore, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate:
always in all prayer for you all praying with joy;
Whose end is destroyed, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, and their heart upon the earth.
And they saw the Philistines the two of them. And the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have taken.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
Now Saul heard that David was made known, and the men that were with him: and Saul dwelt in Gibeah under the Asherah in Ramah, and his spear in his hand, and all his servants standing by him.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to Beth-el, and asked the counsel of God. And they said, Who shall go up for us first to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah first.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel beyond the valley and the other side of the Jordan saw that the army of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they came out of their cities, and fled: and the Philistines came and took them for themselves.
And the people came into the camp; and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? let us take ourselves the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
Remember them that are in bands, as if ye were bound with them; and those that labor, as ye are in the body.
but Christ was faithful as a son over his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast to our confidence, and the hope we are puffed up.
In the same way God, because he would shew unto the heirs of the promise, the promise of his prophecy, according to the promise,
But in them there is made a remembrance of sins every year.
And David dwelt in Gath in Gath, he and his men, every one with his household, David and his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelitess.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me, if if thy father answered thee roughly?
Wherefore I would not destroy them from before your face; that ye may have enemies, and their gods be your ruin.
And he said, This shall be the way of the king that shall reign over you: he shall take thy sons, and appoint them as his servants, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots.
And they told Saul, that the people had sinned against Jehovah, eating with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll here to me now a great stone.
And a man answered from thence, and said, And who their father? therefore it was a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
We can well go in fear of falling into the hands of the living God.
Jehovah, when thou goest forth out of Seir, When thou didst march out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, even the heavens also dropped, and the skies also cast water.
And he said, Behold, the people shall come down out of the midst of the land, and one cherub shall come by the way of the oak.
And it came to pass on the morrow, the second day of the new moon, that David's place was empty. And Saul asked Jonathan his son, saying, Why did not the son of Jesse come either yesterday, or to-day to the feast?
And Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was chosen.
And Amaziah took new cords, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, O son: and there were sitting in wait in the chamber, and he brake them from off his arms like a thread.
And David dwelt in the wilderness, in the stronghold, and in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him continually, but God gave him not into his hand.
But I beseech you rather, that I may do this, that I may be restored unto you.
And David's fear of David was greater, and hated him by day.
And Samuel spake all these words of Jehovah to the people that sought a king.
And the people numbered themselves, and, behold, there was no man of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
And it came to pass in this manner, that Abimelech was confirmed by God for the evil that he had done to his father in smiting seventy brethren.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah; and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard, and were afraid of the Philistines.
Brethren, I know that I am not come to that knowledge: but one thing I do, that which passeth by the beginning, and that which is before,
Then the five men that went to spy out the land, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the house of the house, and the molten images; and the priest was at the gate with the six hundred armed men.
And it came to pass at that time, when Elisabeth was laid down in his stead ( now his eyes were waxed dim, and he could not see;
and we have taken ten men of a hundred, of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred thousand, and a thousand thousand, to receive provision for the people, that they may come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the foolishness which it hath done in Israel.
And Saul was very wroth, and this saying, And he said, They have praised David many thousands, and for me for thousands: what also is there for him but the kingdom?
And he said unto him, O Lord, how shall I save Israel? behold, my family is the poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And thou shalt pass on thence, and shalt come into the oak of Tabor, and there shall be there three men that went up to God to Beth-el, that bare three kids; and one bearing three cakes of bread, and one bearing a bottle of wine;
Behold, an old man came from his work out of the field at even. Now the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he dwelt in Gibeah; but the men of the place were a Benjamite.
So they passed by Jebus, and went on their journey: and the sun went down upon them when they were by Geba, which is in the tribe of Benjamin.
Yea, moreover also do God to the adversaries of David, if I leave of all that is in the morning light any male.
For he hath found an trespass with them, and saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I shall perfect a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
So then, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling.
And Saul, with Jonathan his son, and the people that were with them, waited in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the tents of the Philistines were at Michmash.
For he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and rejoiced: wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
And David continued again to ask at Jehovah: and Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
And the men of the city said unto Jehoash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die; for he hath destroyed the altar of Baal, and cut down the Asherah that was beside it.
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas's wife, with child, with child to bear; and she heard the report of the taking of the ark of God, that her husband and her husband died; and she bowed down, and bare her pangs.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that Naaman fell from off his throne by the side of the gate, and brake his neck, and died; for he was an old man, and heavy; and he had judged Israel forty years.
And Saul said, Let them cast the lot betwixt me and my son Jonathan. And Jonathan was chosen.
Now therefore, if thou hast done truly and justly, in that thou hast made Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with banishment and his house, and have done unto him according to the worthy of his hands,
Therefore let the hands be lifted up, and confirm the feeble knees,
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O mighty one of valor.
And he gathered the children of Ammon, and Amalek, and went and smote Israel; and they possessed the city of palm-trees.
And she dwelt under a palm-tree between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up unto her for judgment.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, Nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly: seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Ezekiel, Therefore now we will turn back unto thee; and thou shalt go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon; and thou shalt be for us for the head of all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And he said unto them, I have a request to make unto you; let every man give me the golden rings; for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmeelites.
So Hanun rose up after they had eaten and drinking in Shiloh. Now, behold, the priest sat on his throne at the posts of the house of Jehovah.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels: Thou hast crowned him with glory and majesty, And hast set him over the works of thy hands.
Consume the violence of the fire, and escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness shall be made strong, being strong in battle, turn to flight the hosts of the strangers.
But if ye shall not be able to tell it, ye shall give me thirty of thirty colors, and the same number of coats. And they said unto him, Put out the riddle, that we may hear it.
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, when thou didst march out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the skies also dropped; yea, the skies also casteth water.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that afflict thee, and drove them out from before thee, and gave you their land.
Thou shalt not regard thy servant as nought; but for my cares and my wrath I have spoken all this.
according to all the works that they have done from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, when they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they shall do unto thee.
And Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, and told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
Then came the name to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in the fortresses in the forest, in the hill of the heavens, that is in the south of the wilderness?
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them in Gibeah.
And he went in, and prepared a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of fine flour. He put the flesh in a basket, and he put the hire in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and brought it.
And Jonathan spake good of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because of his works for thee.
serving the holy places and the holy tabernacle, which Jehovah hath encamped, not man.
And the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian, came before Jehovah,
And it came to pass, when the seventh day they said unto the wife of Siloam, Put thy husband, and persuade him to tell thee what the plain is: but if thou wilt not do it, we will burn thee, and thy father's house. Have thou called us to the banquet, to strip us?
And the God of peace, who brought up from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of an everlasting covenant, our Lord Jesus,
Then did the horse cloven shafts, The companies of their steeds.
In faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
And the children of Dan journeyed; and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned to his house.
And all the people cut down every one his boughs, and went after Abimelech, and set in the high place, and burned by these the high place with fire; and all the men of the tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye always obey, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, with fear and trembling your salvation;
Therefore through him let us offer a sacrifice of praise continually unto God, The fruit of the lips that confess his name.
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Imri, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Pelaliah, the son of a Benjamite, mighty and strong.
And Jesse said to David his son, Take, I pray thee, for thy brethren, this ephah of roasted and these ten bread, and carry them quickly unto the camp unto thy brethren.
Are they not all ministration, sent to serve them, who shall receive the inheritance of salvation?
And it came to pass, when he was come into his house, that he took a knife, and cut up his concubine, and divided her, and beat it into twelve pieces, and sent her throughout all the borders of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and destroyed the land of the children of Israel that day twenty and two thousand men.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went forth both of them into the field.
And Saul was very wroth, and was wroth of him; and he said, They have showed David ten thousands; and they have appointed me thousands: what can he have more but the kingdom?
Come, ye princes of Israel, Who gave yourselves among the peoples: praise Jehovah.
and he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even unto the death of the cross.
And the Philistines went and encamped in Judah, all round about about.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment; and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, I pray thee, warn me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall show thee.
In that it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.
But when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
having the same strife which ye saw in me, and now hear is in me.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Stand, and let me tell thee what Jehovah spake unto me last night. And he said unto him, Speak.
While she had died in the time of her death, they attended to her, saying, Fear not, for thou hast brought forth a son. But she answered not, nor pay heed.
And the woman came in the dawning of the day, and fell at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
Then David took from her hands her sacrifice; and he said unto her, Go to thy house in peace; behold, I have heard thy voice, and received thy oblation.
And the battle went hard against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly distressed by the archers.
And Elon the Gilonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And after him, the son of Potipherah, he wrote the Pirathonite the Pirathonite.
And the people said unto Saul, Should Jonathan die, who hath done this great deliverance in Israel? far from it, that Jehovah liveth, not a hair of his head shall fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the army redeemed Jonathan, and he died not.
And Jehovah said unto them, All the people that were with thee, when I give Midian into their hand, lest Israel magnified themselves against me, saying, My hand hath given me salvation.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went, she and her companions, and mourned her virginity upon the mountains.
And the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, saying,
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the stronghold of En-Gedi.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon thah, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And thou shalt go forward from thence, and shalt come to the oak of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men going up to God, to Beth-el, one bearing three kids, and another bearing three cakes of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
And Samuel brought forth the whole tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good, tarry until thou hast weaned him; only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman abode, and gave her son to suck until she had weaned him.
And Saul answered, God do so also and more: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; and they came into the locusts for multitude; and they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land to destroy it.
Out of Ephraim he destroyed them to Amalek, and after him out of Benjamin, to thy people, O Amalek; out of Machir there came down princes, and out of Zebulun, they that brought the host to fight.
And Jehovah hath delivered into thy bands the princes of Midian of Oreb and of Zerah: what could I have done as unto what thou hast done? And when he had said this, their spirit was appeased, wherewith they were tempestuous against him.
And David was very sore; for the people began to stone him; for the souls of all the people were bitter, every one over his sons and his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And the midwives that were with the Philistines for a certain time, and went up with them, and went up to them that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, kill them. But the lad took not out his sword, fearing that he was yet a child.
Now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; and while thy herdsmen were with us, we did not hurt them; and they lacked nothing of them all the days in Carmel.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, O Hanun, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? and why is thy heart afflicted? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
And this shall we do, if God suffer.
Then said all the trees to the thorn-bush, Come thou, O king over us.
And when Saul saw that he was very wise, he began to take heed of him.
But as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in order to pray for you: but I will teach thee the good and the right way.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, unto his house: and the lad was serving Jehovah, the face of Naaman the priest.
Women received back their dead by the resurrection: but others were grieved, not giving away, that they might gain a better resurrection.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron. And it came to pass, that as the ark of God came unto Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to slay us and our people.
This day shall Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from off thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel;
And if thus I say unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go, for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
But we are not brought to destruction, but of faith to save life.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast set me in a dry field, and now give me springs of water. So Caleb gave her the upper spring, and the nether well.
And Abimelech smote the city all that day, and took it, and slew the inhabitants thereof, and destroyed it, and sowed salt therein.
Be not led away with various and strange teachings; for it is good that the heart is established with grace, not with meat, which profit not them that walk in them.
Against whom hath the king of Israel come out? and to whom do ye persecute? a dead dog? the tender trea-tree?
And he had thirty sons sitting upon thirty ass, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth-jair, unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
not one living man or woman did David to return with him to Gath, fearing that they might give account of what had happened, and say, This is what David did, and so he did all the days that he dwelt in the land of the Philistines.
And he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son; and thou shalt not drink wine nor strong drink, neither eat anything unclean: for the lad shall be a Nazarite of God from the day of his death.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou showed us this way, that thou didst not call us when thou goest to fight with Midian? And they rebuked him sharply.
And the name of his first-born was Joel: and the name of the second was Abijah, the judges of Beer-sheba.
And it came to pass, when Saul went to inquire of Jehovah, that Jehovah commanded him not, by a dream, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul were lost. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go for the asses.
And they arose early, and it came to pass, when the morning ascended, that Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, and I will send thee away. So Saul arose, and they both went out of them, he and Samuel.
But unto which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
They fought from heaven; The stars from their ways fought with Sisera.
And it came to pass, as he spake unto them, that the city of the Philistines of Gath, whose name was called by name, came out of the Philistines' stairs, and spake the same words, in the hearing of David.
which we have, as the fashion of the soul, both sure and faithful, and entering into that within the veil,
then ye shall go down before me to Gilgal, whither I shall come unto thee, for the offering of burnt-offerings and peace offerings: abide there seven days until I come unto thee, and tell thee what thou hast done.
And Sheva the son called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I beseech thee, I beseech thee, I beseech thee, this one time, O God, that I may render a reward to avenge the Philistines for mine eyes.
And there was at that time the Gileadite, a valiant man, and a man of valor, the son of a woman, that was a harlot; and his father was Gilead.
For the priesthood being interpreted, it is necessary that it is necessary to be made of the law.
And they set six hundred men with their weapons of war, which were of the children of Dan, by the entrance of the gate.
The inhabitants of Naphtali also did not destroy the inhabitants of Soco, and of Sidon, and of Kibroth-hattaavah, and of mantles, and of Ahinoam, and of Aphek, and of Rehob;
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for men abhorred the offering of Jehovah.
And the other kine went straight in the way to Beth-shemesh, and in one way they went, and went out, and turned not aside right or left; and the princes of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this great place, and take the second bullock, and offer up a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote Nabal, so that he died.
And Jehovah called the third time again the third time; and he arose, and went to Naaman, and said, Here I am; for thou hast called me. And it perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
And Saul said unto him, Why have thou conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse, and gavest him bread and a sword, and hast enquired of Jehovah for him, that he should rise up against me, and commit him to this day.
So they took counsel, and said, Behold, there is a solemn feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, and on the east side of Beth-el, which goeth from Beth-el to Shechem, and toward the south side of the city of Jokneam.
But Saul and the people spared oppression, and the sheep of the flock, and of the cattle, and of the fat bullocks, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not destroy them; but all that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt look upon the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
and be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith.
And thy daughters shall be made to be makers of incense, and the number thereof, and the number thereof.
