The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And Samuel gave him a account of all things, and kept nothing. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do that which pleaseth him.
But they hearkened not unto their judges, but went after other gods, and worshipped them, and turned aside quickly from the way of their fathers, and kept the commandment of Jehovah; but they did not so.
And Saul said unto him, The young man, whose son art thou? And David answered, I am the son of thy handmaid, the son of Bethlehem.
And every high priest that is taken from among men is given to him, that he may take care of the things that are in the service of God, that he may make a sin-offering.
And the blood was put upon the tabernacle, and upon all the holy vessels.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done a foolish thing: thou hast not kept the statutes which Jehovah thy God hath given thee; and Jehovah hath made thee king over Israel for ever.
And the children of Israel, even of Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with the sword; they were all men of war.
And for the candlesticks, and for the candlestick, and for the table, and for the table, and for the table, and for the table, and for the shewbread; and for the holy place.
This is the covenant which I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my judgments in their hearts, and write them in their heart, saying,
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the ark that was in them, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offerings, and worshipped that day before Jehovah.
And he gave the money of the silver to his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to a artificer, a molten image, and a molten image; and it was in the house of Micah.
The ministers of that which is a copy of the matter, and the image of the things in heaven, as Moses, when he began to make the tabernacle, had commanded of God; for, behold, he saith, that thou make all the pattern that thou sawest in the mount.
For we have laid no rest, but our search are for him that is to come.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days, that we may send men to every part of Israel: and then, if no man come to us, we will come out unto you.
And he put his hands upon the two pillars of the house, and put his weight upon them, and upon the one with his right hand, and on the left.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart faint because of him: I, thy servant, will go forth, and fight against the Philistines.
And Saul answered and said, He besought me that he might go to Bethlehem.
But I will speak nothing of my needs; for I am able, whither I am.
And let not my blood be poured out upon the earth from the presence of Jehovah: for the king of Israel hath come forth to take my life, as one goeth after the birds of the mountains.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and tidings came to Abimelech.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of barley, and these ten loaves of bread, and go quickly with them to the camp unto your brethren.
Why do thou make thy heart hard, as the heart of Pharaoh and the Egyptians? When he had mocked them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
and that there be no evil in the liver, nor any man that feareth God, as Esau, who let his birthright go for a dish.
And they cried unto them; and the children of Dan turned round, and said to Micah, What aileth thee, that thou hast taken up arms?
And they said unto the children of Gilead, If thou wilt bring me back to battle against the children of Ammon, and if I have prevailed with Jehovah, wilt thou make me your head?
And he said, Go among the people, and say unto them, Let every man come hither to me with his ox and his sheep, and slay them here, and eat it; and do not sin against Jehovah by taking the blood with the flesh. So all the people took their cattle with them that night, and slew them there.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together for war, and they came together to Shechem in the land of Judah, and took up their place between choh and Azekah, at Riblah.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Make thy son come out to be slain, and destroy the altar of Baal, and cut down the holy tree which was by it.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, All Zebah and Zalmunna, because of whom thou hast mocked me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna, Even now in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy army that are weary with weariness?
And he overlaid his legs with plates of brass, and a spear of brass upon his back.
And David said unto him, Whose man art thou, and where comest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master went not unto me for three days.
Only let us be guided by the same reign.
and be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
And David smote the Philistines with his skin and with a stone, and smote the Philistines, and smote the Philistines; but David had no sword in his hand.
And he brought them to the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him; and David dwelt in his stead.
but Christ as a son over his house, whose house are we, if we keep our hearts in the glad and in the hope till the end.
And the sign went up out of the city in the pillar of smoke, and the children of Benjamin turned, and looked, and behold, all the city went up to heaven.
But if ye have not that we all have our part, ye are not children, but children of shame.
that we may be as the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us to war.
But the angel of Jehovah was not seen by man, and by man his wife; and he perceived that he was the angel of Jehovah.
For where there is a covenant, there is the death of him that made it.
And it came to pass, when Joshua had given them rest, that he spake not unto him a second day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Ramah, and the voice of his horn was over the head of the sons of Abiezer.
then let him that cometh forth from the door of my house meet me, when I come again in peace from the children of Ammon, and I will give him a burnt offering.
Saying, This blood is the sign of the covenant which God hath made with you.
And David inquired of Jehovah, and said, Am I to go after this band? shall I be able to overtake them? And he answered, Go after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and get back all things.
And he went up thence unto Penuel, and besought the men of Penuel; but they answered him as the men of Succoth had given.
And David rose up, and came to the place where Saul's tents were; and David saw the place where Saul slept with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul slept in the chariot, and the camp of the people were round about him.
and take these ten centurions unto the captain of their thousand, and see how your brethren are, and come back with a sign to speak their words.
And Abigail took two hundred loaves of bread, and two wine full of wine, and five sheep prepared for meat, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred flour, and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them on asses.
Woe unto the dog, against the workers of iniquity, against the workers of circumcision:
And Abimelech told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were there together.
And he said, Arise, I pray thee, to me, O king of the Amalekites, and to the king of the Amalekites, and to the king, and to the king of Agag, saying, Behold, the pangs of death are past.
And they rose up, and went up to Bethel, to inquire of God; and the children of Israel said, Who is the first to go up against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah is to go up first.
But there is no doubt that the greater receive the greater.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the battle over all the hill-country of Ephraim: but Saul made a great mistake that day by putting the people under an oath, saying, Let that man be cursed that eateth bread before evening, and I have given judgment to them that are against me: therefore the people had not eaten bread.
For we have seen him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will reward; and the Lord will judge his people.
And Saul said, I have done the commandment of Jehovah, and have gone the way the Lord sent me: I have taken Agag, the king of Amalek, and have given Amalek to destruction.
until now thou hast not given thy blood to sin.
And it was clear to David that Saul had conspired against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Come here with the ephod.
For I know that it shall be for my salvation, through prayer, and in the fulness of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
For ye sent unto me once in Thessalonica once and again.
And Saul was wroth with Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of an evil and rebellious woman, hast I not seen how thou hast given thy love to the son of Jesse, to shame and to the shame of thy mother?
And the sons of Taanach, and the children of Eshtemoa, the children of Eshtemoa.
by the new and the living way which he made unto us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh.
and having a great high priest, who hath made his way through heaven, even Jesus the Son of God, let us be strong in our faith.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and became servants unto the Baalim.
And the man arose to go away; but his father-in-law would not let him go, and lay his rest there again for the night.
And the people said unto Saul, Is it dead to Jonathan the servant of this great salvation for Israel? let it not be so: but let not the head of Jehovah's head be touched, for he hath been working with God to-day. So they kept Jonathan from death.
But if not, let fire come out of Abimelech, and burn up the inhabitants of Shechem and Beth houses; and let fire come out of the city of Shechem, and from the Millo, for the destruction of Abimelech.
And again, if the fathers of our flesh gave us punishment and reverence, how much more shall we be under the authority of the Father of spirits, and have life?
He is able to have compassion for them that have no knowledge, and for them that wander from the truth, because he himself is weak.
and thou shalt say unto him that I will visit his seed for ever, for the sin which he knew; for his sons have cursed God, and he hath no dominion over them.
And the trees went out to make a king for themselves; and they said to the olive tree, Be thou king over us.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until the evening, and besought Jehovah, and said, Am I to go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
For the law hath not made perfect; and in its place there is hope in which we come nigh unto God.
And the man Micah had a house of gods; and he made the ephod and the house of his fathers, and made of his sons one of his sons.

Yea, my sons, the reward which is given to me, which the Lord's hosts is not good.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Let every man be numbered, and let us see who is gone from us: and when they were numbered, they saw that Jonathan and his servant were not there.
And it shall come to pass on the third day, that thou shalt know it; and thou shalt go unto the place where thou wast hid, when the rest of the merchandise was in hand, and thou shalt stand by the mountain.
And Saul's servants said these things unto David. And David said, Is it not unto thee a small thing to be the king's wife, seeing that I am a poor man, of no great name?
And Sisera the son of Abinadab went up to mount Tabor.
Are there not enough of me that thou hast suffered against me, that thou hast let this man come and walk before me? is such a man come into my house?
And Saul said, Come near, all ye princes of the people, and let us inquire of God, and see in him this sin this day.
that he might test Israel, and see whether they will keep the way of Jehovah, and walk in it, as their fathers did, or not.
And in time death overtook all that generation; and another generation came after them, having no knowledge of Jehovah, nor of the things which he had done for Israel.
And after that David came forth out of the rock, and wept after Saul, saying, My lord the king: and when Saul looked back, David fell upon his face, and glorified him.
And said unto her, How long are thou to be the worse to drink? Put away thy wine from you.
And Jehovah will give to every man the reward of his righteousness and of his faith; because Jehovah hath given you into my hand this day, and I would not put out my hand against the man that was anointed with the holy oil.
And another went by the way of Beth-horon, and another went by the hill of Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
And Hananiah answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman whose spirit is broken: I have not drunk wine nor strong drink; but I have opened my heart before Jehovah.
and my God will give you all the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
And when Samuel turned away to go away, Saul took the hem of his garment in his hand, and the napkin went away.
And he ran to him, and said, Behold, I, for thou hast said my name. And she said, I have not said thy name; go to thy rest again. And he went again to his bed.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We are sinners; do unto us what seemeth good unto you: save us this day.
Therefore Christ, having at his first coming, took away the sins of men, shall be seen a second time, without sin, because of them that wait for him, for their salvation.
So then, my beloved, as thou hast done all the things which I say, not only when I am present, but now much more, when I am not with you, give yourselves to work with fear in your hearts.
And Adam rose up, and went after his wife, and came up to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that talked with this woman? And he said, I am.
And when he saw her, he grieved him, and said, Alas, my daughter! I am oppressed with sorrow, and thou art the chief of my affliction: for I have sworn unto Jehovah, and I will not take it again.
And the voice of my prayer was for this child; And Jehovah answered me, saying,
And of the children of Dan, Zorah, and Eshtaol, went out with instruments of war.
For when Moses had commanded all the ordinances of the law unto the people, he took the blood of goats and oxen, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and put it upon the book, and upon all the people;
And he commanded the men whom he had sent, saying, Thus shall ye say unto all the men of Israel, Hath not a thing done like this from the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day? Give thought to it, and turn it over in your mind, and give it to you.
Thy fathers tempted me, and saw my works forty years.
But will not the man by whom the Son of God be broken under foot, and the blood of the covenant with which he was washed clean? and who hath despised the Spirit of grace, being condemned in much damage?
And he went on from thence to Ramah, and the Spirit of God came upon him; and he went on, and did as a prophet, and came to Ramah in Ramah.
And the five lords of the Philistines, having seen it, returned to Ekron the same day.
And David was loved by all Israel and Judah; for he went out, and came in before them.
and bare him to Ziklag, and to Ziklag, for the land of the kings of Judah to this day.
And it came to pass in these words concerning the ark of God, that he fell down from the door of the gate into the city, and fell upon the earth, that his neck was broken, and died with his neck; for he was an old man, and a great weight, and he judged Israel forty years.
And David was wise in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And they fled, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness; and in the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who pursued them to Geba, and slew two thousand more.
And when David had said these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, O David my son? and Saul was overcome with weeping.
I beseech thee, I pray thee, the chief of the Lord, I beseech thee, that I may be in the midst of the Lord.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Am I to go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines, that they may not fall into their hands.
In all my prayers for you all, making my request with joy,
And it came to pass that day, that they smote the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people fainted from hunger.
And I will send my son to seek the arrow; and if I say unto him, Behold, the arrow is upon this side of thee; take it up; then thou mayest come; for there is peace for thee, and no evil, by the living Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon had made war against Israel, that the men of Gilead went to search themselves out of the land of Tob,
And a man of Benjamin fled from the fight, and came to Shiloh the same day with his garments out of order and earth upon his head.
And it came to pass at that time, that he tarried still in his place, and now his eyes were dim, so that he could not see.
And he said, The Lord is witness against you, and the man upon whom he hath anointed the holy oil is witness this day, that ye have seen no wrong in me. And they said, He is witness.
And the young Samuel, being older, justified the Lord and men.
and tidings was given to him that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hands: for he hath entered into a fortified city with the doors, and hath let himself be shut in.
For they have married life among you all, and are not defiled; for men commit adultery shall be judged by God.
And David said unto the king, Thou shalt see now what thy servant will do. And David said unto David, I will keep thee from my head for ever.
And the Lord spake, and spake, and came to him, and said, Here am I, for thou hast spoken my name. But he answered, I said nothing, my son; go to thy rest.
The stars of heaven fight themselves; They fight against Sisera.
Moreover they ought to cleanse the deed of the things which are in heaven, and that they are cleansed from the offerings of heaven than these.
And he inquired of the Lord, and gave him bread, and put in his hand the sword of Goliath the Gittite.
And the king said, Make search, and see whose son this young man is.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and Mizpah, and called it, saying, Arise, Jehovah is our help.
And she said, My lord, as long as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that prayed unto Jehovah by thy side.
And Jeremiah the son of Shelemiah said, Who is Abimelech, and he that is Shechem, that we should be his servants? is it not right for the son of Jerubbesheth, and the son of Jerubbesheth, to be servants to the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? But why should we be his servants?
And he took the honey in his hand, and went on, and ate it on the way; and when he came to his father and mother, he gave to them, and said not that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
but we have dry grass and bread for our asses, and bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us: we have no need of anything.
And Samuel was old, and Jehovah was with him, and did not let any of his words fail.
And it shall be that the rest of thy house, that shall not be cut off, shall go down to him for a piece of silver, or a piece of bread, and shall say, Be pleased, and put me into one of the high priest, that I may have a little food.
that we may walk in the hearts of our hearts, in the faith, and in our hearts our hearts cleanse with pure water;
because it was the right for him, for whom all things were, by whom all things were, by guiding his sons to glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through pain.
And David and his men, about six hundred of them, went forth out of Keilah, and went whither they were to go. And Saul heard that David had departed from Keilah, and went not thither.
And he went down, and talked with the woman, and she was pleased with the woman.
And all the children of Israel went to the Philistines, and took their bands, and their axes, and their axes, and all the bands of the children of Israel.
And when he had heard these things, he sent other men, who were also like prophets: and the third time Saul sent men, and they were like prophets.
And the king sent for Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of the house of his father that were at Nob; and they all came to the king.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes: I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came together from all their cities to Gibeah, to go to war with the children of Israel.
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a cause of trouble unto him, and that the hands of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, This day thou shalt be my son-in-law for the second time.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's house, and said unto them, and to all the house of his mother,
And David gave him his oath; and Saul returned to his house; but David and his men went up to their place.
And Saul said, I pray thee, let the punishment of Jonathan be upon me, O Jonathan.
And he said unto them, What have I done among you? is not that Ephraim taken up after the cluster of grapes, than the grapes of Abiezer, which were in the winepress?
So he changed his way before them, and made it seem as though he were off his head, and smote the doors of the city, and caused the water to come down out of his mouth.
And David went up from thence to Mizpah in the land of Moab; and he said to the king of Moab, Let my father and thy mother come and sojourn with thee, till it be clear unto me what God will do for me.
And all the elders of Israel gathered together, and went up to the city of David at Ramah.
And Jonathan said unto his young servant, who had his arms, Come, let us go over to the assembly of these men, that have not circumcised; and that Jehovah will help us, for there is no limit to his hand; Jehovah is able to save a great army, and a great company.
This mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus,
And the children of Israel went out to fight with Benjamin; and the children of Israel made war against them at Gibeah.
As a servant of the holy things, and of the testimony, which is by God, not by man.
For there is a blessing in thy heart, and upon thee, who hath kept me to-day from the blood of blood, and from taking into my hand the iniquity of my sin.
As it is said, To-day if thou wilt hear his voice, be not grieved, as when thou provoked him to anger.
And she caused him to sleep upon her knees; and she sent for a man, and had seven stripes of hair cut off; and while it was, he became feeble, and his strength went out from him.
Therefore my brethren, beloved, and very beloved unto me, be strong in the Lord, my beloved.
And the name of the children of Israel was six years for six years: and there was a fifth of the Gileadites to his death; and his body was put to rest in his city Mizpah.
And Jotham, when he heard it, went to the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice, saying, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hear you.
Jesus Christ both both and this day and ever.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the band of prophets with Samuel in his stead, the Spirit of God came upon Saul's men, and they became like prophets.
And David besought Jehovah again; and Jehovah answered, Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
And the carpenter died, and his body was stayed at Bethlehem.
And Melchizedek the king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, blessed Abraham, when he came again to slay the kings.
And it came to pass, when David's servants came to Carmel, to Abigail, they said unto her, David hath sent us to thee to take thee to him as his wife.
And all the men of the east that were left of the east, all the hosts of the children of the east, who were yet alive, were fifteen thousand men, and their armies were twenty thousand men, and their armies were forty thousand men; for a hundred and twenty thousand were slain.
Better is the reproach of Christ more than all the riches of Egypt; for he sought unto his reward.
But if thou art afraid of going down, take thy servant with thee, and go down to the tents;
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judah, how much more shall we go to Keilah against the Philistines?
And when I saw that there was no help from thee, I put my life in mine hand, and went over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hands: why then hast thou come up to me this day to make war upon me?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose early in the morning, and he prepared to go away: but the damsel's father said unto his daughter-in-law, Take a little bread, that thou mayest keep thy strength, and then go thy way.
And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let me now go through thy land to my place.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and worshipped the Baalim, and all the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and the gods of the Philistines; and they provoked Jehovah, and were servants to him.
And it is true that by the law, the Levites, who have the office of priesthood, shall take a tenth of the people's goods; and they shall say, They take it from their brethren, though these are the children of Abraham.
And Samuel said, Hath the Lord delight in sacrifice and burnt offerings, as in his commandments? yea, to do his pleasure is better than to offer gifts, and to give ear to him than the fat of sheep.
and there shall be no more an old man in thy house.
And David, with four hundred men, went on; and two hundred of them waxed weary, and could not go over the river.
And he took ten of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him; and he feared to do it by day, because of the people of his father and the men of the city by night.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Jehovah, saying, I brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, and brought thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, My covenant with you shall not be broken by me.
And Saul said unto his servant, But if we go, what shall we take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no oblation to the man of God: what shall we do?
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he set up before Jehovah.
And Joshua let the people go away; and the children of Israel went, every man to his inheritance, to take the land for themselves.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which were taken from thee, whereof thou hast sworn and said in mine ears, I have given this silver to Jehovah out of my hand, to make a graven image and a molten image: behold, I have taken it, and I will give it again to thee. And his mother said, Blessed be Jehovah upon my son.
Are they not all helping spirits, who are sent out as servants unto those whose inheritance shall be saved?
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul were gone astray. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, and go in search of the asses.
And the people answered him, So shall it be done unto him that overcometh him.
Now therefore give up the wicked in Gibeah, that we may slay them, and purge away the evil from Israel; but the children of Benjamin would not hear the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
And he went away from the city of Bethlehem, and went to the house of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to the house of Micah.
And when Abigail saw David, she quickly took off her ass, and fell upon her face before him.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul with power, and his wrath was kindled.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Art thou all thy children? And he said, There is yet the youngest, and he looketh after the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and make him come hither: for we will not sit till he is here.
So Israel put men in ambush round about the city, to make a surprise upon it.
For my father made war for you, and slew thee, and redeemed thee from the hand of Midian;
Nevertheless, to walk in the flesh, there is more necessary for you.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, as one man.
For they are the statutes of the flesh, and of the wine, and of the drink, and of the water, which have their place till the time when things shall be accomplished.
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah, and I seek a dwelling place.
And he said, Yea, seventy kings, whose hands and great toes were cut off, and broken flesh under my table: as I have done, so hath God dealt with me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he came to his end there.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not this evil thing: this man is come into my house, and thou shalt not do him wrong.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath taken away the kingdom of Israel from you this day by force, and hath given it to thy friend that is better than thou.
And it came to pass, when the people came to their tents, that the elders of Israel said, Why hath Jehovah let the Philistines smite us to-day? let us therefore get the ark of Jehovah's covenant from Shiloh, that it may be with us, and deliver us from the hand of our enemies.
And they came and looked at Eliab, and said, The man of Jehovah is before him.
For verily he taketh not on the life of angels, but that of the seed of Abraham.
And Abimelech went to smite him, and put him in array against him, and laid him in array against him.
Therefore have I sworn unto the house of Eli, that no oblation of flesh, or of meat, which they may make shall henceforth take away the sin of his house.
It is the same to me, if I look down or glory; and in all things I have the mystery of how to be full and to go without food, and to have riches and to be in need.
And it shall come to pass, that the glory of Israel shall not speak falsely, neither shall his device be changed: for he is not a man, whose purpose is changed.
Say no more words of pride, Let not the words of the rash proceed out of thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him is judgment.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah, when he died.
And it came to pass, when the lad came to the place where the arrow was, that Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is it not past thee?
Why did ye not the commandment of Jehovah, but by the hand of Jehovah, that they took their spoil in the sight of Jehovah?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them up into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Saul was very wroth, and this spake not unto him: and he said, They have delivered David to glory, and to me for ten thousands: what more is there for him but the kingdom?
And they laid his body in the earth in the land of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim unto the north of mount Gaash.
So David took the spear, and the pitcher of water from off Saul's head; and they fled without any man, neither seeing them, nor awake; for they were all asleep, for a deep sleep from Jehovah came upon them.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
And his mother made him a hundred robe, and took him unto him every year, when she came with her husband for the year.
And they dealt against the house of Rameses, that is, the house of Jerubbesheth, according to all that he did unto Israel.
And Samuel stayed in the place where he was, not till the time came for opening the doors of the house of God in the morning; and fear kept him from giving forth a account of his vision.
And David came to the two hundred men, who had not gone with him, but were waiting at the stream: and they went out, and met David and the people that were with him; and when they came near, they said, How are ye?
As he saith in another place, Thou art a priest after the order of Melchizedek.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, and fought with the Philistines.
And Joram the son of Joash went up from the fight.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the children of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And he took the kid of the goats with the meal-offering, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah, who did strange things.
For I am very hard between the two, having a desire to go away and to be with Christ:
And he rose up early in the morning, and went to Saul; and he spake unto Samuel, that Saul had come to Carmel, and set up a pillar, and went down to Gilgal.
And Jacob blessed the two sons of Joseph, when he was near to death; and he bowed down with his staff.
but it seemed to me to send to you, my brother, to deal with me, my brother, who hath taken me in the work, and in the battle, and thy servant, with thee, for help.
And the woman said, Who am I to let thee see? And he said, Let Samuel come up for me.
And they gave up Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples round about them, worshipping them, and provoked Jehovah to wrath.
saying, Be sure that I will bless thee, and multiply thy exceedingly.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched by the affections of our flesh; but we have one who hath been tempted in all points, as we are tempted, but without sin.
But we are not of them that are perishing, but of them that have faith even unto the salvation of the soul.
that when God would make it known to them that by his word should receive the inheritance, that his purpose was confirmed, he made it more certain with an oath;
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Yea, I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is greater than all: for whom I have suffered all things, and to me they are less than nothing, that I may have Christ as my reward.
And the children of Judah came up against Jerusalem, and took it, and burned the city with fire, and destroyed the city without mercy.
And David's two wives were Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
The shaft of his spear was as long as a weaver's beam, and his head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one went before him with his shield.
And thou shalt make an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the commandment, and thou shalt take the bullock, and make a burnt-offering with the wood of the holy tree, which is cut down.
But Saul said nothing that day; for his thought was, and it was made to defile him; for it is clear that he is not clean.
And the Edomites went up from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the ascent of Akrabbim, and upward.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that he knew the way of her father; and she alighted from her ass. And Caleb said unto her, What is it?
For if the blood of the goats or the oxen, and the ashes of a cow, be sprinkled on the unclean, make the flesh clean.
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines for a year and four months.
And Saul came out of the field, and drove the oxen before him; and he said, Why are the people weeping? And they told him what the men of Jabesh had said.
Now therefore hear the voice of thy servant, and let me give thee a little bread, and eat bread for thee, when thou goest on thy way.
and told him how Saul had slain the priests of the Lord.
Then came up the son of Shelemiah, and his brethren, and went to Shechem; and the men of Shechem believed in him.
And thou shalt put the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the golden images, which thou shalt offer for sin in a chest by the side thereof; and thou shalt send it away, that it may go.
And Jonathan said unto David, Behold, my father is purposing thy death: now thou shalt take care in the morning, and hide thyself in a secret place.
And the Philistines sent for the priests and the wise men, and said unto them, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? how shall we send it away to its place?
And all Israel heard that Saul had fought against the Philistines; and the Philistines hated the Philistines; and the people came after him to Gilgal.
And all the men of Israel rose up, and encamped against Baal Tamar; and they that stood in ambush came out of their place on the west side of Geba.
And he gave back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I have made the silver holy to Jehovah from me for my son, to make an image and molten image.
And the brother of Saul said unto him and to his servant, Whence hast thou been? And he said, Search for the asses; and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
For this cause let us have a strong desire to come into that place, and let no man follow the example of them that have rebelled against God.
Awake, aha, awake, and awake; awake, sing: Arise, arise, and take away, and take away captive, that took thee captive, O daughter of Abinadab.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her, and said unto her, Make thy hand over him, and see what is the secret of his great might, and how we may get the better of him, and put bands upon him, that we may make him faint; and every one of us shall give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest out to me with rods? And the Philistines put a curse upon David by all his gods.
Therefore take him to thy heart in the Lord with all joy, and magnify him as he is.
Arise early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that are with thee, and go unto the place which I have given thee, and have no evil device in thine heart, for thou art good in mine eyes; but when there is light enough in the morning, go away.
For, having done what was right in the sight of God, ye have lacked of yourselves before his word.
Now the children of Benjamin had spoken that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Make clear to know the evil thing.
For they all follow after things, and not after the things of Christ.
And David put forth his hand in his sack, and took out a stone, and sent it out of his sack by the hand of the Philistines; and the stone went deep into his forehead, and he went down to the earth, and fell upon his face.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been the keeper of his father's sheep; and if a lion or a bear came, and take a lamb from the flock,
Arise now, thou and thy people, and keep watch in the field;
And they went into the house of Micah, and took out the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, and the molten image, and said unto them, What doest thou?
And Saul feared David exceedingly, and hated him day by day.
And when she saw that she had let her see, she sent word unto the elders of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he hath let out all his heart unto me. Then the princes of the Philistines came to her, with the money in their hands.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David be with me, for he pleaseth me.
by whom this poor body of ours shall be changed into the image of his glory, in the measure of the working wherewith he is able to put all things under himself.
And when the woman saw that it was Saul, she cried and said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled thee? for thou art Saul.
And Samuel said unto Saul, The Lord hath sent me to anoint thee, and to make thee king over his people, over Israel: therefore hear the words of Jehovah.
And David ran to the Philistine, and laid his foot upon him; and David took his sword out of his den, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that the men of war were dead, they fled.
And they cut off his head, and took away his armor, and sent word into the land of the Philistines round about, to bring tidings to their gods, and to the people.
And David pursued them from the evening even unto the evening of the day; and not one of them was left, but only four hundred young men who went in flight upon camels.
And when they were come into the field, Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us go, lest my father take care of the asses, and be troubled about us.
And Saul sent for the people, and had them numbered in number, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
All the saints send their love unto you, and especially them that are of Caesar's house.
If thou hast done that which is true and right to destroy Baal and his house this day, then shalt thou rejoice in Abimelech, and he shall rejoice in thee.
And God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and more than the natural powers, and by the gift of the Holy Spirit at his pleasure.
I have said, I have said unto thee, The keepers of the flock have been with us: now the keepers of thy flock have been with us, and we have done them no evil; and we have taken nothing of them, and they are in Carmel.
And the five men that went to search out of the country of Laish, said unto their brethren, Know ye, that in these houses there is an ephod, and a temple, and a molten image, and a molten image? Now now ye see what to do.
And Saul said, Hear now, O son of Ahitub. And he answered, Behold, I am here, my lord.
And David went to and fro from Saul, and looked after his father's flock at Bethlehem.
To which of the angels did God say, Thou art my Son, this day I have given thee? or I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; your way is directed by Jehovah.
And he went to Ramah, and came to the great well of Tyre; and he asked the people, saying, Where are Samuel and David? And they said, They are at Ramah.
By faith Abel made a good oblation unto God than Cain; and he testified by it by the righteousness of God; and his voice came to us, though he was dead.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Go unto Jehovah our God, to save us from the hand of the Philistines.
And he overtook Saul, and his three sons, and his servants the same day.
And Saul and his men went in search of him; and David spake of it, and came down to the rock in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard of this, and went after David into the wilderness of Maon.
And Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, and blessed Jacob.
And he said, And what did Samuel say unto thee?
And he shall take thy bondmen, and thy maidservants, and thy oxen, and thy ass, and put them in his work.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, come hither unto me with the ephod. And Abiathar took the ephod to David.
And he returned from the pillar of stone at Gilgal, and said, I have something to say unto thee in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be silence; and let all those that stand before him go out.
And David spake in the wilderness, that the wife of Nabal did shear his sheep.
And they came to Calneh, and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And it came to pass, with these words, that David spared his servants, and sent them not unto Saul: and Saul arose, and went on his way.
And when the angel of Jehovah heard these words unto all the children of Israel, the people cried and wept.
But there is light for men of abundance, even unto them that are wise, and to those that are taught to see good and evil.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for from all this people I have borne your evil ways.
And Manasseh took not away the land of the people of Beth Shean, and of the villages, and of Taanach, and of the inhabitants thereof, and of the people of Dor, and of the people thereof, and of the people of Ibleam, and of the inhabitants thereof, and of the people of Megiddo, and of the inhabitants thereof, and of the people of Megiddo, and of the inhabitants thereof, and of the inhabitants of Megiddo, and of the inhabitants thereof.
And it came to pass, when thou comest to pass, that he came to the Jordan, and passed over it with his three hundred men, and waxed weary, and lacked bread.
And he sent out over all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come ye down against Midian, and pass over the Jordan before them. And all the men of Ephraim, all the men of Ephraim, shall be gathered together, and shall go over the Jordan.
And when he saw the traveller in the street of the city, the old man said, Where goest thou? and where comest thou?
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because of the love of Jonathan.
Of whom we have much to say, that it is hard to make clear, because ye are slow of hearing.
who have no need for sins every day, as the high priests, first for himself, and for himself, and for the people; because he hath done this once and for ever when he made his offering.
And the mountains were moved before Jehovah, before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
But it is clear unto you, that as a child is unto his father, so he helped me in the work of the Gospel.
For then he would have suffered death since the time of the creation; but now he came unto us at the end of the old order, to put away sin by the offering of himself.
And Judah went with Simeon, his brother, and smote the Canaanites who dwelt in Zarephath, and put it under the curse; and he gave the city the name of Hormah.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this band? And he said, If thou wilt give me thy oath, that thou wilt not kill me, or give me up to my master, I will bring thee unto them.
And Jonathan rose up against the armed army of the Philistines at Gibeah; and tidings was given to the Philistines, that the Hebrews were turned against them. And Saul had a trumpet spread throughout all the land.
And it came to pass, when the princes of the children of Reuben, behold, the children of Issachar, Deborah, that went out into the valley, marching out at his feet: and there were divisions in the land of Reuben, and of great colours.
And they took the vessels of the people, and their horns from their hand, and sent them away, every man to his tent, and kept only the three hundred; and the tents of Midian were lower in the valley.
And David sent out officers, and told them that Saul was certainly coming.
Watch ye to keep open the house: for in this manner there have been angels with them, without knowing it.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Let the woman know what I say unto her.
And he said, Come hither, and give me the burnt offering and the peace-offerings; and he made a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And thou hast showed me how good thou art unto me this day: for when Jehovah hath delivered me into thy hand, thou hast not put me to death.
Only let your conversation do the good tidings of Christ; that if I come and see you, or if I depart from you, I may tell you that ye are strong in one spirit, working together with one accord for the faith of the gospel.
And the children of Gilead said unto them, The Lord be our witness: we will surely do as thou sayest.
And day and night they were as a wall round about us, and we were with them, looking after the sheep.
The Lord is the giver of death and life; He bringeth men down to Sheol, and bringeth them up.
And David fled, and went away, and came to Ramah, to Samuel, and gave him a account of all that Saul had done unto him. And he went and dwelt in the camp.
Cursed is the curse upon her, saith the angel of Jehovah, and a curse upon her men, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
And it came to pass, that there were no more cities in Israel, neither was it any more, but it came to pass, that it came to pass, that it came to pass, that it came to pass, that ye came up as a mother in Israel.
And Saul heard that David had been seen, and the men that were with him: Saul was in Gibeah, and sat under the oak in the high place, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were in their places before him.
And it came to pass, in the fifth day of the fifth day, that he arose to go away; but the young woman's father said, Keep thy strength; and the two of them had a meal, and the man and his woman and his handmaid went not unto the middle of the day.
But the children of Asher dwelt among the Canaanite, the people of the land, and drove them out.
The man that goeth against the law of Moses is put to death, without mercy on the word of two or three witnesses;
And three of the Philistines came out of the Philistines to make a raid; and one troop went by the way to Ophrah, and went into the land of embracing.
but only a great fear, and of the fire of wrath, which shall be the destruction of the enemies of God.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name? and when thy words come to pass, we will glorify thee.
Even though I myself might have faith in the flesh, if any man have so to believe in the flesh, I have more.
For this cause Jesus was put to death outside the wall, that he might sanctify the people by his blood.
not to be deceived by strange doctrine, for it is good for your heart to be strengthened by grace, and not by meats, which of no profit profit upon them.
And all the inhabitants of the city of Shechem heard of it, and went into the chamber of the house of God.
Is this the first time that I have inquired of him? Far be the thought, and let the king make no accusation against his servant, nor against my father's house; for thy servant knoweth not, neither is it any thing that thou knowest.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will go over unto these men, and let them see us.
But the people hearkened not unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
And David said, Behold, the king's spear! let one of the young men arise, and get it.
And they called the name of the city Dan after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: but the name of the city was called Laish.
Let us keep the witness of our hope and our hope; For he is faithful that hath spoken.
Therefore let the hands that are hanged be lifted up, and let the weak knees be strengthened.
And it came to pass that night, that the Lord said unto him, Take ten men of thy servants, and an ox seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal, which is thy father's, and cut down the holy tree by his side;
For as the sin of them that make idols, and the molten images, and the molten image, and the molten images, because ye have cast away from you the word of Jehovah, he hath put thee from thy place as king.
Now the child of Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before: in those days the Lord hid his word from men, and there was no open vision.
If he had been on the earth, he would not have been a priest unto all; for the priests, the ministers of the priests, commanded.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man of war? is there any other like thee in Israel? why have thou not kept thy lord the king? for one of the people came to put the king thy lord to death.
And they said unto him, Be quiet, speak nothing, and come with us, and be our father and priest: is it better for you to be priest to one man's house, or to be priest to a tribe, and to a house in Israel?
And three thousand of the children of Judah went down to the gate of Etam, and said to the prophet, Is it not clear unto thee that the Philistines are our princes? and what is this thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, I only did unto them as they did unto me.
And when he came, he sat by the way, watching, and in his heart was afraid for the ark of God. And when he entered into the city, there was a great cry.
But if it be thorns and thorns, it is of no use; it is accursed; it shall be burned with fire.
And they fled from his brethren, and they dwelt in the land of Tob; and there was a number of Belial, and they went out with him in his hand.
And the Levite, the husband of the dead, answered, and said, I came to the land of Benjamin, in the land of Benjamin, and the wife of my handmaid, for the counsel of the night.
But, brethren, take hold of the words which I have spoken unto you, for I have not sent you a long epistle.
Go therefore, and go in peace, that thou mayest not provoke the Philistines to wrath.
And the children of Gilead took the plains of the Jordan against the children of Ephraim; and when any of the men of Ephraim that had gone in flight said, Let me go over; the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou the children of Ephraim? And if he said, No.
And by faith Sarah had power to give birth, when she was old, because she believed in him that gave his word.
And Abimelech answered and said unto the king, Who among all thy servants is true unto thee, as David, who is the son-in-law of the king, and is a captain of thine armed men, and hath a place in thy house?
For I know of this very thing, that he by whom the good work was begun in you, shall accomplish it until the day of Jesus Christ:
that we may see that there is no man among you disorderly among you, because of the grace of God; lest some bitter root come up to thee, lest haply some of you be defiled by it.
And being faint, he made for himself sin for himself, and for the people.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Thou shalt not see his face, nor the height of his height; for I will not have him: for the eyes of Jehovah are not; man regardeth the appearance, but Jehovah seeth the heart.
And Saul would send his spear through him, and thrust him into the wall; but he escaped, and the spear went into the wall: and that night David fled and fled.
And make straight paths for your feet, that the weak be not turned out of the way, but be strengthened.
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath taken possession of their land out of the hand of the Amorites, and hath given it unto his people Israel: are ye then to possess it?
And it came to pass, while she was a long time in prayer before Jehovah, that she kept watch over her mouth.
Of whom it was said, From Isaac shall thy seed take their name.
And when they heard it, they gave Saul word, and he sent for him.
And David took these words to heart, and fear the king of Gath.
And the watchmen rage upon Gibeah, and ran upon them; and they smote the city without mercy.
And the number of them that took up the waters with their tongues were three hundred; and all the people went down upon their knees to the water.
And Jonathan gave unto Saul his father a good account of David, and said unto him, Let not the king deal treacherously against his servant, against David; for he hath done thee no wrong, and all his works have been good unto thee.
And God did so; for the wool was dry, and there was dew upon all the earth round about.
Why then are ye jealous of my sacrifices of meat, and of meat which was commanded by my word, that ye should honor your sons before me, and make yourselves fat with all the best of the offerings of Israel, my people?
And death came to Samuel; and all Israel gathered together, weeping for him, and buried him in his house in Ramah; and David went down to the wilderness of Maon.
And it came to pass, when she was grieved in her soul, weeping bitterly, she made her supplication unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said, Why hast thou asked me, seeing that God is gone from thee, and is on the side of him that is against thee?
And they said unto them, Come and be our chief, that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
For he hath testified of him, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
But the man was not left there that night; and he arose, and went away, and came to Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and he had with him the two asses, ready for his journey, and his woman.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words which were sent unto him.
And he went once and ever into the holy place, having gotten eternal salvation, not by the blood of he-goats and the bullocks, but by his blood.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And it came to pass, when thou comest to pass, that a man told his friend a dream, saying, Behold, I had a dream of barley bread, which fell into the tents of Midian, and passed into the tent, and smote it, and it was stretched out upon the earth.
And it came to pass every year, that, being given to Elkanah, and to his wife a blessing, saying, Jehovah give thee seed by this woman in exchange for the child that thou hast given unto Jehovah: and they returned to their house.
And Samuel took the bottle of oil, and anointed him there with oil among his brethren; and from that day the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David with power. And Samuel went to Ramah.
These are the nations, whom Jehovah hath kept in the land, for the intent of Israel's sake, that all those that had not seen of all the cities of Canaan.
And David said to Abimelech, Hast thou not smitten thee with the sword, or with the sword? for I am come out of my sword, and from the sword, because the king's business was ready quickly.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and said, He is sick.
Now therefore give me thy oath by Jehovah, that thou shalt not destroy my seed after me, nor let my name be cut off from my father's house.
For it is not for the blood of oxen, Nor for the goats to take away sins.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak with David in secret, and say unto him, See how the king delighteth in thee, and how thou art beloved of all his servants; then be the king's son-in-law.
and it is our desire that ye may all keep the same hour in hope to the end:
And she said unto Shammah, Make me known now what is the secret of thy great strength; and thou shalt be ravished and faint.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and took the ark of Jehovah unto the house of Abinadab in Gibeah; and they made Eleazar his son holy, and put the ark in his hand.
saying, I will give the knowledge of thy name unto my brethren; I will sing unto thee before the assembly.
And it came to pass, when they heard their words, that ye might go down with strength against the people: and he went down with his servant, and he went down with his servant unto the camp of the armed men.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Am I to give up my substance of oil, by which men give glory to God, and cast down the trees?
And it shall come to pass, that thou shalt say, Because of this, when Jehovah hath given me up to Zebah and Zalmunna, I will lay thee upon the bed of thorns, and upon the threshing floor, and upon the threshing floor, and upon the threshing floor.
And the woman had in the house a heifer, made fat for food; and she put it to death, and she took flour, and fetched it mingled, and made unleavened bread.
But now he is higher than the priest; for by him hath God made a good covenant with man, according to the giving of good things.
Now to God our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And they sent to David, saying, The Philistines also fought against Keilah, and they took the threshing-floor from the threshing-floor.
And I will make Sisera the captain of the army of Jabin, with his chariots and his army, and I will come against you at the river of Kishon, whither I will give him into thy hands.
And all the people of Shechem, and all the Berites, came together, and went and made Abimelech their king by the oaks of Shechem.
And she said unto her father, Only do this for me: let me have two months, and go into the mountains with my friends, weep for my sorrow.
And I took her, and cut her into pieces, which I sent through all the land of the land of Israel; for they have done a shame in Israel.
Who is it that should hear thee? for he shall be given to him that went to the fight, and to him that stood by the spoil; for all these are the same.
And it came to pass, when he had come to his house, that he took his knife, and took the woman, and cut her up with a piece of blood, and sent through all Israel.
So that of one man, who was near to death, came children as the stars in heaven, or as the sand by the sea, which can not be numbered.
and not one of these are the good things of the covenant, though they all had a good report through faith;
And he smote them from Aroer, from the way of Minnith, and from the twenty cities, even unto Abel; and they smote them with the sword. And the children of Ammon were oppressed before the children of Israel.
And Jesse took five cakes of bread, and a skin of wine, and a young goat, and sent them to Saul by David.
That is to say, not according to the law according to the flesh, but by the power of a living life.
For truly, by the living Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath kept me from doing you evil, if thou wouldest not come to me, and come unto me, neither shall the day of the uncircumcised be in the house of Nabal, so much as one alive.
Offer the word of life, that I may have glory in you in the day of Christ: for my running was not for nothing, and my work was not without effect.
And it came to pass, when they had eaten bread and wine in the chamber, that Hananiah arose. And the priest was sitting by the posts of the gate of Jehovah.
And David said, Jehovah, who hath delivered me from the hand of the lion and the bear, shall save me from the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And David and his people dwelt with him in Gath; and every man had his house with him; and David had two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Carmel.
And the children of Ammon came together, and set up their army in Gilead; and the children of Israel came together, and set themselves in array at Mizpah.
And the Kenites, even the Kenites, separated from the rest of the Kenites, of the children of Hobab, the wife of Moses, who had pitched his tent unto the oak of Zaanannim, in Zaanannim, by the name of Kedesh.
And a great multitude of the people passed over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; but Saul was yet in Gilgal; and all the people went after him trembling.
And when he had waited a long time, the word of God was fulfilled.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day: now let me smite him with a sword, and let him smite the earth with his spear, and there shall be no need to give him another.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever them that are sanctified.
And I will remember no more their sins, and their doings, and their doings.
and said unto him, Behold now, thou art old, and thy sons do not go in thy ways: give us a king now to be our judge, that we may be as the other nations.
But the people of Belial said, How is this man to be our Saviour? And having no respect for him, they gave him no oblation.
And he went to the house of his father in Ophrah, and put his brethren, the seventy men of war, to death on the same stone; but Jotham, the youngest, kept himself in a secret place.
Is not the land of the which thy god Chemosh cast out from before thee? and we will keep all the land of them that Jehovah our God shall send out before us.
And Saul said unto his servants, Get me a woman that hath a spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire. And his servants said unto him, There is a woman at Endor.
And when the men came in, there was the image in the bed, with the bands of the goats' hair at his head,
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who came not unto Jehovah in the assembly of all Israel? for they had sworn a great oath that whosoever came not up to Mizpah to the Lord should be put to death.
And she gave the child the name of the child, saying, The glory is come out of Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And Shammah the son said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines. And he put forth all his might, and the house came down upon the princes, and upon all the people that were in it: and the dead, whom he had sent to destroy by his death, were more than all those upon whom he had destroyed his life.
And they said unto the children of Gilead, Did thou not, that thou hast hated me, that thou wouldest send me away from my father's house? why comest thou unto me now when thou art in trouble?
And the king said, Thou shalt surely be put to death, and to Ahimelech, and to all thy father's house.
And the women answered one another in their song, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David the tens of thousands.
And Jehovah said unto the king of Israel, This is the number of thy people, that if I give the Midianites into their hands, that they may exalt me, and say, I have been my saviour.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
And the five men went on their way, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were there, living without fear, as the Sidonians, quiet and safe: for they had all things upon the earth, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with Syria.
And let this oblation, which thy servant giveth unto my lord, be given to the young men that are with my lord.
Now therefore, if thou hast done well and righteousness in making Abimelech king, and hast done well to destroy Baal and to his house for the work of his hands,
And he took up the mantle of a ass, which was dead, and saw it on the earth, and slew a thousand men with it.
And Amasa went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines.
Only because of the generations of the children of Israel, for the counsel of the children of Israel, only they that rose up till they had not seen it.
And he opened all his heart unto her, and said unto her, My head is not touched with a blade; for I am separated unto God from the day of my birth: if my hair is cut off, then my strength shall depart from me, and I shall be as one man.
So then, brethren, being able to go into the holy place without fear, because of the blood of Jesus;
And it came to pass, when David came again after the destruction of the Philistines, and the women came out of all the cities of Israel, with songs and with dances, David with singing, and with gladness, and with instruments of music.
And Japhlet the Gileadite was a great man of war; he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead was his father.
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go away, take yourselves out of the midst of the Amalekites, and destroy you with them: for thou wast kind to the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Egypt: therefore the Kenites went away from the Amalekites.
And he said unto them, This time will I recompense the Philistines, for I will do them evil.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines, and fought against them, till they came in unto Beth-shemesh.
And there were among the children of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins, who had never known a man; and they dwelt in Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And Jehoash the son of Joash began to reign when he was old; and his body was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the place of the old; and the name of his father was Ophrah.
And Saul sent his servants to Jesse, and said, Send forth thy son David, who is with the sheep.
And David said unto Saul, Why dost thou hear them that say, That I desire to do you wrong?
And David was the youngest; and the three chief men were with the army of Saul.
not as the covenant which I made with their fathers, when I took them by the hand, to lead them out of the land of Egypt: for they kept not the covenant with me, and I gave them up, saith Jehovah.
And Samuel spake all these words of the Lord unto the people that seek a king.
Now of the things whereof we say this is the chief priest: We have such a high priest, who hath taken his place at the right hand of God's throne of glory in heaven,
But when the judge was dead, they returned, and did more evil than their fathers, and after other gods, to serve them, and to serve them, and to serve them, and to give up nothing of their iniquities, and their abominations.
Now after Abimelech, Tola the son of Jvah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, was the Saviour of Israel; and he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the children of Ephraim came, and said unto him, Why didst thou not send for us, when thou wentest to war against Midian? And they said sharp words unto him.
And all the men of Israel that had taken refuge in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, and pursued them.
And Jonathan rose up from the table, and burneth with wrath, and took no part in the feast the second day of the month, being grieved for David, because his father had put shame on him.
And Saul stretched out his spear upon him, and smote him with a wound. And Jonathan knew that his father's counsel was to put David to death.
But now they desire a good country, that say, For one in heaven; and so it is no shame to God to be called their God; for he hath prepared a city for them.
For our country is in heaven, and the salvation of the Lord Jesus Christ;
And they took hold of them, and bound them round about, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines are upon thee; and they stood in the inner chamber, and the cords were broken off.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Jebusite, and the Amalekites: for these were the people that dwelt in the land from Seir to Shur, as far as Egypt.
And the angel of Jehovah went up into heaven from the altar, and the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar; and Adam and his wife looked upon; and they went down on their faces to the earth.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go, and smite the transgressors, and the Amalekite, and fight against them, until they die.
Now therefore, my lord, by the living God and by thy living soul, seeing that Jehovah hath kept thee from the blood of blood, and from taking into thy hand the chastisement of thy iniquity, and all thine enemies, and who would do evil to my lord, be as the wife of Nabal.
And Jair died, and was buried in the earth.
Shall I take my bread, and my wine, and the flesh I have prepared for my shearers, and give it to men whence I have no knowledge?
And they went out into their fields, and took the fruit of their vine; and when the grapes were broken, they made a holy feast, and went into the house of their god, and over their food and their drink they cursed Abimelech.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians, the Amorites, the children of Ammon, and the Philistines?
And it came to pass, that the sign was between the men of Israel, and the plague between the men of Israel; and they went up, and made a pillar of smoke out of the city.
And Jonathan sent for David, and told him all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, who kept him by his side as in the past.
And he said, Go now. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her friends to the mountains, weeping for her.
And the Zidonians, and the Amalekite, and Midian, and Midian, have trodden thee down; and I have not delivered thee from their hand.
And it came to pass, when David had gone after David, that he fought against the Philistines: and there was a place called of the Philistines.
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah would kill our death, he would not have taken our burnt offering and our sacrifice, nor commanded us these things concerning the child.
And it came to pass, when he came to a troop, that the Philistines came out, and gathered him with a loud voice; and the spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords of his hands were like grass burned with fire, and the bands fell off his hands.
By faith it is clear unto us that the commandment of things was confirmed by the word of God, that the things which are seen are not made of things.
There was no loss of anything, whether small or great, nor sons, nor daughters, nor goods, or anything that they had taken away; and David returned.
And she said unto her young men, Go before me, and I will follow thee; but she said nothing to her husband of Nabal.
that we may come to the seat of grace, that we may not fear, that we may obtain mercy unto us, and that we may receive grace in the time of need.
And he said, Ye have taken my gods, which I made, and my priest, and have gone away; what is there for me now? why do ye say unto me, What is thy trouble?
And he said, I am afraid, O Jehovah Jehovah: for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
And he said unto her, Take thy place at the door of the tent; and if any one cometh and saith unto thee, Is there any man here, say, No.
And the people came to Bethel, and stood there until evening before God, and wept bitterly.
And it came to pass, when his servants spake these words to David, that he was well pleased to be the son-in-law of the king, and the days were not past.
Salute your brethren in the faith.
And the people, the men of Israel, took their heart, and set up their forces, and set themselves up on the first day.
For if these things were possible, there would not be an end of these things: for the righteous would have been cleansed, and they would have sinned no more.
And it came to pass, when thou heardest the parable of the dream, and the interpretation of the dream, which they took it, and worshipped, he returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath given the army of Midian into your hands.
For he sought the strong city, Whose Maker and God.
And Moses believed not the son of Pharaoh, when he became a man.
And he said unto him, Far be the thought, thou shalt not be put to death: see, my father doeth nothing, great or small, without giving me word: wouldest he keep this secret from me? It is not so.
And the children of Dan were cast into the hill-country by the Amorites, who would not let them go down into the valley;
And he gave him a portion, even though he loved him, but Jehovah had not given her children.
And ye shall put forth the power of fire, and escape from the edge of the sword; and they shall be strong when they are feeble, and shall be full of power in battle, and shall scatter the nations.
The Lord giveth riches, and taketh the spoil of a man; He breaketh men down, and bringeth them up again.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah, in the land of Saul.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Jehovah, let the man of God whom thou sentest unto us come again, and shew us what we should do for the child that is to come.
And the angel of Jehovah came before his eyes, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O man of war.
And it came to pass, when it was come to pass, that, when it was day, it came to pass, that, as it was day, it came to pass, that, as it was day, it came to pass, that, behold, Jehovah had given to Sisera in thy hand, that he went not out before thee; and he went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And it came to pass after this, that David was sorry for his raiment.
But if they say, Come up unto us, and we will go up: for Jehovah hath given them into our hands; and this will be the sign unto us.
For this cause we should hear the things which are come to our ears; for fear lest we be moved away.
Let us then, though we still have the word of God, that we may come into his rest, fear that ye can not be able to do so.
And the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred iron chariots; and for twenty years he was very cruel to the children of Israel.
And with whom was he angry forty years? Was it not with them that did evil, who came to their blood in the wilderness?
And he took his people, and divided them into three bands, and stood in the field secretly; and when he saw the people coming out of the city, he went up, and fought against them.
And again he saith, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I am here, and the children which God hath given me.
And the men of Jabesh said, Tomorrow we will come out unto thee, and thou mayest do unto us what seemeth good to thee.
And he said unto the child that took him by the hand, Let me put my hand upon the posts that uphold the house, that I may bring my back against them.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, and journeyed as an army of the land of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens were troubled, and the skies drop water.
And he said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And Saul said, It is not a man to be put to death this day: for this day Jehovah hath established Israel.
but of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the rod of thy kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
And David went into a secret place in the land; and when the new moon came, the king took his place at the feast.
And Jonathan again took an oath to David, because he loved him: for David loved him as his very soul.
So it came to pass that day, that God smote Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And she sware, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt remember the sorrow of thy servant, and turn not away from me, but keep me in mind, and give me a child, then will I give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and his locks shall never be cut off.
And one of the people of that place answered, and who is their father? And they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And she sent for the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said unto him, Did not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded thee, saying, Go and take thee a line in mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
The river of the river took them away, And stood their flight, The river of the river; Praise, O my soul, to the strength of Jehovah.
And they shall say, Peace be with thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt take from them.
And he made the tribe of Benjamin come near by families, and the family of the Machirites; and Saul, the son of Kish, was taken: but when they sought him, he was not able to be seen.
For the charge which said, If the mountain is touched even by the beast, the beast is to be stoned; it is hard unto them.
And Jonathan said unto David, Whatever thy heart is, I will do for thee.
And he said unto David, Thou art righteous, and I am wrong: for thou hast rewarded me, but I have given thee evil.
And the chiefs of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna, even now in thy hand, that we may give bread to thy army?
where he went before us, as a high priest, according to the order of Melchizedek.
Salute every one that is holy in Christ Jesus.
and had made the women, and all that were therein, small and great, prisoners: they slew none of them, but took them away.
And the Philistines came together, and set up their armies; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and stood up in Gilboa.
the five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, that dwell in mount Lebanon, from the mountain of Baal Hermon unto Hamath;
And it came to pass, when the three hundred three hundred, that every man's sword was lifted up, and every man's sword turned away from the hand of Jehovah against his brother, even unto Beth Jeshimoth, to the end of Abel, to the end of Abel.
Go now, and take more steps, and see where he dwelleth; for they say, that he is skilful in deceit.
And he said unto Jether his eldest son, Arise, and slay them. But the lad took not his sword, and feared, because he was yet a child.
And Samuel saw him no more till the day of his death; but Samuel mourned for Saul; and it was no more the pleasure of Jehovah to be king over Israel.
And after him repaired the name of the house of Bethlehem, which is called Bethlehem.
And the armed men of the forces gave up Jonathan and his servant, saying, Come up hither to us, and we will let you see. And Jonathan said to his servant, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them up into the hands of Israel.
And David said, By the living Jehovah, Jehovah will destroy him; and the natural day of his death shall come, and he shall go into the battle, and shall come to his end.
And now, behold, thy power shall not pass: Jehovah seeketh for a man that pleaseth him in every way, and hath given him the place of ruler over his people, because ye have not done the thing which Jehovah commanded thee.
And all the children of Israel took up arms; and the people came together as one man, from Dan to Beersheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And they said unto the children of Benjamin, Go into the vineyards, and tarry there.
And the woman said unto him, But thou hast known what Saul hath done, that he hath cast away from the land those that have familiar spirits and wizards: why wouldest thou, by a man deceive thee?
that we have been sanctified by the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for ever and ever.
So they came together to Mizpah, and fetched water, and poured it out before Jehovah; and they fasted not that day, and said, We have done evil against Jehovah. And Samuel was judge of the children of Israel at Mizpah.
And Saul answered him, and said, He told us that the asses had returned; but he spake nothing unto him of Samuel's words concerning the kingdom.
And it came to pass, when the lad was gone, that David came from his den by the mountain, and fell upon his face three times: and they gave one another a kiss, and wept together, until the sorrow of David was greater.
And Jabez, the wife of Heber, took a hammer and a hammer, and went up to him quietly, and cast the girdle into his head, and it went through his head to the earth; for he was in a deep sleep from weary; and so he came to his end.
But thou hast dealt well with me, That thou hast kept me in my need.
And Jehovah let the nations dwell in the land, and did not utterly drive them out, neither delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
And all the fighting men arose, and rose all night, and took Saul's body, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
and let not thy lovingkindness be cut off from my house; for Jehovah hath sent destruction upon all David's enemies, and cut them off from the face of the earth.
For this is your tradition, that ye suffer these things: for God doeth to you as a father doeth unto his children; for what son doth not come forth from his father?
And Eliab his firstborn, when he heard what David had said unto the men, was moved to wrath against David, and said, Why art thou come hither? to whom hast thou given the flocks of sheep in the wilderness? I know your pride and the evil of your heart, and come down to see the battle.
And Jonathan the son of Saul went unto David in the stronghold, and strengthened his hands in God.
And let them be turned away, that their hearts may not be renewed a second time; for they themselves have laid the Son of God on the cross, shewing them openly.
And he said unto all Israel, Thou art on one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Whatever seemeth good to thee.
If then we have a kingdom which shall never be moved, let us have grace, that we may serve God with fear and reverence.
Now see how great this man was, to whom our father Abraham gave a tenth part of the things which he had prepared.
And it came to pass, when Saul was living in the days of Saul, that there was a great war against the Philistines; and when Saul saw that there was a mighty man, or any good man, he kept him by himself.
And Memucan came unto him, and he sat by himself in his own house, and said, I have a word from God for thee, and he rose up from his throne.
then let the Lord judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and uphold my cause, and keep me from falling into your hands.
What then? nay, in every way, in truth, or in truth, the preaching of Christ; and in this I rejoice, and shall be glad.
Now there was no iron in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, For fear the Hebrews make their swords, and their spears.
And David said unto the men that were near him, What shall be done to the man that overcometh this Philistine, and take away the shame of Israel? for who is this of the Philistines, a man uncircumcised, that he hath put shame upon the hosts of the living God?
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my inheritance, that we may fight against the Canaanite; and I will go with thee into thine inheritance. And Simeon went with him.
And as they were taking their pleasure at supper, the evil men of the city came round about the house, and smote the door; and they said to the elders, the master of the house, Send forth that man which came into thy house, that we may receive our pleasure with him.
And Saul said, Then shalt thou say unto David, The king desireth no dowry, but only for a hundred Philistine foreskins, that the king may recover the better of his enemies. But it was in the heart of Saul that David might come to his end by the hand of the Philistines.
Now David was the son of the Ephrathah of Bethlehem, of Judah, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons: and he was an old man in the day of Saul, and far in years.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Thou seest that I have heard all that thou hast said unto me, and hast made a king over thee.
For it is clear that our Lord came forth out of Judah; and Moses said nothing concerning the priests.
And when it was evening, they saw an old man coming from his work in the field; and he was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamin.
Then said I, Behold, I come to do thy pleasure, O God, as it is written in the book of the book.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the men, saying, Because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took away my land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and as far as the Jordan; and now give me a quiet place.
And Jonathan cried out, and wept after the child, and hasted, and hasted not; and Jonathan's son drew the arrow, and returned to his master.
that we should have such a high priest, that is holy and without evil, and doeth no wrong, having no part with sinners, and made high above the heavens:
For thus saith he unto them, Behold, the days come, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
not in envy, nor in pride; but in the hardness of the flesh let every man take another to be better than himself;
For by the living Jehovah, the Saviour of Israel, even if the sinner is Jonathan, my son shall die; but none of the people shall answer him.
But the children of Sisera fled to the tent of Jabath, and the wife of Heber the Kenites; for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenites.
So Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel; and for eighty years the land had peace.
But my beloved, if we say this, we know that thou hast good things in you, things that go with salvation.
but the high priest went into the second, once a year, and not without sacrifice of blood for himself, and for the error of the people.
And the children of Benjamin were threescore thousand men, and all mighty men of war.
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall be bowed, of them that are in heaven, and on the earth, and in the dead;
And Samuel sent the people together before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land, became Israel's.
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrow hath passed past thee: then go thou on thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And Saul pitched his tents upon the mount of Paran, which is before the wilderness on the way. But David was in the wilderness; and he saw that Saul was coming after him.
Be ye therefore merciful unto thy servant; for thou hast been joined to thy servant in a covenant made before Jehovah: but if there be any iniquity in me, put me to death: why take me to thy father?
And at Nob, the city of the priests, he slew all the men, and the women, and the little ones, and the little ones, and the oxen, and the asses, and the flocks.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah: do unto me whatsoever thou hast said; for Jehovah hath sent a full reward upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And she said unto Shammah, Behold, thou hast mocked me with lying words; but now thou shalt say, How wilt thou bear thyself?
Now the first commandment had the law of Jehovah, and the order of a holy commandment.
And the men of the city rose early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal broken down, and the holy tree that was by it cut down, and the oxen offered upon the altar that was set up there.
that thou hast put all things under his feet: for he hath made him ruler over all things; he hath not put anything out of his power, though we see not all things under him.
And they asked the Lord, saying, Is there the man here? And the answer of Jehovah was, that he set himself among the spoil.
And this man went up from his city every year to worship and to make an offering to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And Jehovah gave them up into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the captain of the host was as Sisera, who dwelt in the hand of the nations.
And there is nothing made unto him that is not perfect; there is nothing covered, but all things are open to the eyes of him with whom we should do.
And when the burnt-offering was finished, Samuel came; and Saul went out to see him, and blessed him.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth; and his body was set upon the wall of Beth-shan.
And all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the people of the east, gathered themselves together, and encamped, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Behold, I will put the wool of a sheep upon the threshing-floor; if there be dew upon the wool only, and all the earth is dry, then I will know that it is thy purpose to deliver Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken.
And God caused a hole in the midst of the rock into a den, and water came out of it; and he drank, and his spirit returned unto him, and he was strong again: and that place was called Helkath, which is to this day.
Saul therefore put on other garments, that he might not be seen to be the king; and he took two men with him, and came to the woman by night: and he said, Now with the help of the spirit which thou hast, make the man whose name I will give thee.
And he said, My son Samuel. And Samuel answered, Here am I.
The wise women answered her, Yea, she answered her.
And all the people took the rods, and every one cut down a branch, and went with Abimelech to his head, and took the rods against the chamber, and put fire to the chamber over them; and all that were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned with fire.
Now in those days, when there was no king in Israel, a Levite dwelt in the midst of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he chose a concubine of Bethlehem in Judah.
He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent to other places; and he took thirty wives out of other places for his sons, and he reigned over Israel seven years.
and if a man have lifted up his hands against thee, and lay thy life in danger, yet the soul of my lord shall be saved in the midst of the assembly of Jehovah thy God; and the souls of them that are against thee shall send violently away from him, as stones of a bag.
And Jehovah smote the Gibeonites seventy men of the men of Bethshemesh, for they looked into the ark of Jehovah; and great was the sorrow of the people for the destruction which Jehovah had sent upon them.
And the servant answered, and said, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give it unto the man of God, and he will teach us our way.
For he was sick in death; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him but upon me, that I might not suffer sorrow.
And they said, Arise, and let us go against Laish; for we have seen the land, and it is very good: why do ye do nothing? be not slow to go in, and take the land for your inheritance.
Be thou here with me, and fear not; For he that fashioneth my life hath sought thy life: But with me thou shalt be saved.
And Michal let David down through the window, and he fled, and fled.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, This is the man of whom I gave thee word: he that is to have authority over my people.
Abraham did as God said by faith, when he was commanded to go forth into a place that was given unto him, and went out without knowledge where he went.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and took it with them from the border of Ashdod.
The Lord is between you and me for ever and ever.
Then Samuel commanded the people the statutes of the kingdom, and wrote them in a book, which he set before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines came to take their spoil from the dead, that they saw Saul and his three sons dead upon the earth on mount Gilboa.
And the name of his first son was Joel, and the name of his second Abijah: and they were judges in Beersheba.
And the priest gave him the holy bread: there was no other, but the holy bread, which was taken from before Jehovah; that the new bread should be put in the day when it was taken away.
And the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And David went up thence, and pitched himself in the place of En Gedi.
And Saul said, Blessed be the blessing of Jehovah, because thou hast had pity on me.
And the things which came unto thee by my teaching and preaching, and which thou hast seen in me, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth into the field. And the two of them went out into the field.
And Jehovah himself hath done that which I said: Jehovah hath taken the kingdom out of thy hand, and hath given it to thy neighbor David;
making thee full of every good work, and ready to do all his lusts, working in us that which pleases Jesus Christ; and may the glory be given unto him for ever and ever. Amen.
And he said unto him, O my lord, if Jehovah is with us, why hast Jehovah with us? and where are all the works of his hands, which our fathers have commanded us, saying, Did not Jehovah take us out of Egypt? but now he hath delivered us up, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
And it came to pass from year to year, that he went up to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and to morrow, and to Israel in all these places.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites; for the people have kept the best of the sheep and of the oxen, as an offering unto Jehovah your God: all the rest we have destroyed.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what have I to do with thee? And when he spake, they were with him.
Then came down his brethren, and his father's servants, and took him up, and buried him in the land between Zareah, and in the valley of his father; and he reigned twenty years in Israel.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel came not unto Jehovah to Mizpah? And it was seen that no one came from thence to the congregation.
So that when he came into the world, he saith, Ye had no desire for offering, but ye made a body for me;
Give ear unto the women that laugh at the waters of waters; There shall they again declare the righteousness of Jehovah, All the upright acts of his arm in Israel.
For the copy of the law, which is a poor part of the things which should be done, is not able to make the people that come unto the altar all the year with the same oblations.
Now there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel; and he was a great man, and had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats; and he drew the wool of his sheep in Carmel.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Go not in this place, but go into the land of Judah. Then David went away, and came to the forest of Edom.
And the priest's servant shall come and say unto the man that offereth the offering, Give me of the flesh of the flesh to be prepared for the priest: he hath not eaten bread boiled in water, but he hath boiled it.
And it came to pass in the past of Israel, that a man went to inquire of God, saying, Come, let us go to the prophet; for he that is called prophet is in those days called the name of the prophet.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou hast slain in the valley of Elah, is bound in a cloth at the back of the ephod: take that, if thou wilt, for there is no other sword here. And David said, There is no sword like that; give it to me.
And he took thirty men, and they were with him.
And he took off his garments, and did as a prophet before Samuel; and he fell down, and bare himself naked, all that day and all that night. This is the cause of the saying, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the lords of the Philistines went on with their troops, and with their thousands; and David and his men came after his face.
And it came to pass at the end of ten days, that Jehovah smote the Carmelite, and died.
And David was greatly afraid, when he knew that Saul had come out to take his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in the land of Hormah.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and stood at the door of the tower, for the counsel of it.
And the concubine of Shechem bare a son by him, to whom he called the name of Abimelech.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made without children, so shall thy mother be barren among women; and Agag shall be overthrown by Samuel, the bones of the bones, before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And the power of the children of Israel increased against Jabin king of Canaan, until he was cut off.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou art come unto me with the sword, and with a spear, and with a spear: but I came unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, even the God of Israel, upon which thou hast put shame.
And the sons of his body, the sons of his father, were threescore and seventy; for he had many wives.
And David said unto his servants, Before Jehovah, let not it be said that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the prince of Jehovah; for the oil of Jehovah was upon him.
Now the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And when she heard the noise and the cry, said, What is the cause of this cry? And the man came quickly, and gave the tidings to him.
But one of the young men said unto Abigail, the wife of Nabal, who sent men out of the wilderness to speak kindly unto our lord, and he answered them roughly.
not as if I had now received the reward, or was made perfect; but I walk in the hope that I may come to the knowledge of that which I have been made to Christ Jesus.
And Moab said, Behold, they come down out of the midst of the land, and one band is coming by the oak of the seers.
And there was a highway between the way of the mountains by the way of the Philistines; and there was a sharp stone upon the one side, and a flint on the other side: the name of the one was altered, and the other was called.
For the Amorites went upon the mountain of Jazer, and in Aijalon, and in the suburbs of the suburbs; but the children of Joseph waxed stronger than they, and put them in bondage.
And it came to pass, that year by year, when she went up into the house of Jehovah, she defended her; and she bare herself to weep, and did not eat.
that we also, who are escaped from the hope of the hope wherewith we hope, may be refreshed in two things, in which it is not possible for God to be false.
And she had men secretly in the inner chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and Jonathan the son: and the cords were broken by him, as a man's beam is broken with a flame, and his strength came not to light.
Go now, and smite Amalek with the edge of the sword, and smite them with the curse, every man and woman, and every child, and the child, and the ass, and the camel, and the camel, and the ass.
At the time of judgment all things are to be sorrowful, and not joy; but after, they that are instructed by it, receive the peace of righteousness.
And the carcase of the beast, whose blood is taken into the holy place by the high priest, shall be burned without the camp.
And Saul took David that day, and would not let him go to his father's house.
And his sons went not in his ways, but went by the love of money, and were not upright in judgment.
And it came to pass, when the men of Ashdod rose early in the morning, that they saw that they fell upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and they took their place of Dagon, and put him in his stead.
And Israel was in great need because of Midian; and the children of Israel went up to Jehovah.
and the gold, and the mouse, one for every city of the Philistines, and the field of the five lords, and the fortified cities, and the great stone, where they set the ark of Jehovah in the field of Joshua the Gittite unto this day.
And all the tribes of Israel came near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
If in any way I have the reward of life from the dead,
And when his servant saw that Saul was dead, he did likewise, and was also with him in death.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made him king of Moab strong against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when Baal-Hanan the son of Shelemiah went out, and took his place in the gate, that Abimelech and his people arose from the place where they waited.
And the children of Zebulun dwelt in wait, even to death, and to Naphtali in the high places of the field.
Behold, thy servant hath overcome the lion and borne; and the number of the Philistines, who are uncircumcised, shall be as theirs, seeing that he hath put shame upon the hosts of the living God.
And the man said to him, I have come from the host, and fleeth to-day from the battle. And he said, How went it, my son?
For we are well with fear of falling into the hands of the living God.
And he said, Out of the slaughter came forth bread, and out of the strong came the sweet; and at the end of three days they could not answer.
And they went up, and put up their tents in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: and the name of that place is called Kiriath Jearim.
And she gave birth to a son, and gave him the name of Shammah the son: and he became a man, and the blessing of Jehovah was upon him.
And they took the thing that Micah had made, and the priest, and came to the people of Laish, to a people that dwell in silence, and not in danger; and they put them to the sword without mercy, and burned their city.
And they came down from the high place into the city, where there was a bed prepared for Saul, and he went to rest.
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant into the chamber, and made them take the high place among all the guests that were there, about thirty souls.
But for all this thou hast given me up, and hast been servants unto other gods: therefore will I be thy salvation no more.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter as wife to the man that overcometh Kirjath Sepher, and taketh it.
and if the daughters of Shiloh come out to take part in the dance, then come from the vineyards, and take a wife for every one of you from among the daughters of Shiloh, and go again to the land of Benjamin.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people into three bands; and in the morning watch they came to the camp of the children of Ammon, and they came to fight against them till the heat of the day: and they that were not put to death were scattered in every direction, so that they were not gathered together.
not that I seek an offering, but for the fruit which shall be given to you.
And he went up, and went up by the way of the people that dwelt in tents on the east; and he drew up and wept, and smote the host, when they had no thought of evil.
So David departed from thence, and took himself to Adullam; and his brethren and all his father's people heard of it, and went down to him there.
They shall be wrapped up as a garment, as a garment, and they shall be changed; but thou art the same, and thy years shall be no end.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I took you up out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
For unto me life is Christ, and death is profitable to me.
And the children of Ammon warred against Israel.
And I said, Now the Philistines come down upon me at Gilgal; and I have made no prayer unto Jehovah; and I have made myself a burnt offering.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, on the way to Shur, which is before Egypt.
And Samuel said, How can I go? And if Saul's tidings of it he will bring me to death. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I have come to offer an offering unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, and take bread with me this day: and in the morning I will let thee go, after unto thee all the secrets of thine heart.
And there came out a man out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath, and he was greater cubits tall.
Take heed to know all the hidden places whither he lieth, and return unto me, and I will go with you; and I will go with you; and if he be in the land, I will bring him, among all the families of Judah.
that neither father, or mother, or house, having no birth, and having no end to his life, being made like the Son of God, is a priest for ever.
And the children of Benjamin that came that day out of the cities were threescore thousand men armed with the sword, besides the men of Gibeah, seven hundred and fifty men of valor.
And Caleb went against the Canaanites of Hebron; and the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba, and thence he put thence from thence thence, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And the wall of Jericho came down, and they compassed the wall seven days.
And he had a mitre of brass upon his head; and he was clothed in a brazen garment, five thousand shekels of brass.
And they laid their bones in the earth under a tree in Jabesh; and they fasted seven days.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Let the ephod come hither, for he went before Israel with the ephod.
And they went out at Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
and they sware unto Jehovah, saying, If thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hand,
And the princes of the Philistines said, What these Hebrews do here? And he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is this not David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me for a year or two, and I have not seen any evil in him from the time when he came to me till now?
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for us unto Jehovah thy God, that death may not overtake us: for in addition to all our iniquities we have done this evil, in wishing for a king.
And Japhlet went with the elders of Gilead; and the people made him head, and chief over them; and they wrote all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And I took you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that were cruel unto you, and I sent them out from before you, and gave you their land.
And as this is not without oath,
For the rest, my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are, whatsoever things are lawful, whatsoever things are holy, what things are holy, what things are excellent, if there is any profit, if there is any glory, and there is any praise, give thought to these things.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go out against the Philistines, and fight against him: for thou art only a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
For from the first day until now thou shalt help the gospel.
And it came to pass, that there was not a living man, nor a woman alive with him to Gath, that they might bring an account of what was done in the land of the Philistines, saying, Thus saith David, Thus hath David done; and so hath he done continually in the land of the Philistines.
And David said, What have I done now? was it not only a word?
And David rose early in the morning, and he gave the sheep into the care, and took the baggage, and went according to the word of Jesse; and he came to the place where the chariots were, when they went out to battle with their cry.
So David went, and his six hundred men went with him, and they came to the river country.
And the children of Israel came together from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hands of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
And the people sent unto Shiloh, and took the ark of Jehovah of hosts, whose habitation was between the cherubim, and the Levites, and the Levites, and the ark, with the ark of the covenant of God.
And he did great things, and smote Amalek, and saved Israel from the hand of their enemies.
Blessed be he more than all the women; Blessed is more than all in the tabernacles.
And they gave up Jehovah, and became the servants of Baal, and the Nethinim.
And they said, What sin is we to send unto him? And they said, Five gold images of the devils, and five of the mouse, one for all the Philistines; for the plague came upon thee and upon thy nobles.
So they went quickly, and made him come out; and when he took his place among the people, he was greater than all the people.
Remember him that hath suffered many evil against himself, that thou mayest not faint and faint.
And he reigned over Israel three and twenty years; and his body was nine hundred and three years in his death.
What shall come upon us, if we give not our heart to such a great salvation? the salvation of our fathers first had knowledge of the words of the Lord, and who was made certain unto us by those to whom his word came;
For this cause God hath put him in the highest place, and hath given unto him the name which is greater than all the names.
But they trespassed against Jehovah their God; and he delivered them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the army of Jabin king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, who made war against them.
And the Hebrews, who had been with the Philistines for some time, and had gone up with them to their tents, turned round unto them that were with Saul and Jonathan.
I am able to do all things through him that giveth me strength.
unto the great assembly, and to the assembly of them that are called in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the good men,
And when ye come into the city, ye shall see him straight away, before he goeth up to the high place for the feast; and the people wait for his blessing before the feast; and after that they shall take part in it, go up now, and see him.
And the children of Israel besought Jehovah; for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there in those days.
And the children of Judah made not the Jebusites, who dwelt in Jerusalem, go out; and the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
And it came to pass, when she was near to death the women that were with her, saying, Fear not, for thou hast borne a son: but she made no answer, and gave no heed to it.
And in the morning Samuel said unto Saul on the roof, Arise, and I will send thee away: and he rose up, and he and Samuel went out.
But in the middle of the city there was a strong tower; and all the men and women of the city fled and besieged, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And there was a war there; and David went out against the Philistines, and smote them greatly; and they fled before him.
And Jabez went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Come in, my lord, and come in unto me without fear: and he went into her tent, and she put a covering upon him.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah; and David dwelt in the Philistines; and Jonathan returned to his house.
And now, as they have said unto me, that Saul cometh? O Jehovah, God of Israel, hearken unto thy servant, and say, If these things are so. And Jehovah said, He cometh down.
And the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass, and put him in the house of bondage.
And they sent twelve thousand of the best men, and commanded them, saying, Go, and put the men of Jabesh-gilead to the sword without mercy, with their women and their little ones.
But this man, who was not of their seed, took the tenth from Abraham, and blessed him, to whom God had sworn.
Whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, whose heart is fixed upon the things of the earth.
For the women go year by year to howl for the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in every year.
And he said unto him, Lord, how shall I save Israel? Behold, my house is the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
Thou art a beloved of righteousness, and an enemy of evil; and so God, thy God, hath put the oil on thy head above the heads of thine enemies.
So Jehovah made Israel secure that day, and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
And he went through the wilderness, and all the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon; and they came not in the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, It is an old man clothed with a garment. And Saul saw that it was Samuel; and he bowed himself to the earth, and glorified him.
For if the priests are changed, it must be necessary to change the law.
being full of the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.
And he said, Great is my sin: but now, give me glory before the heads of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah your God.
And Saul knew that Jehovah was with David; and he loved him by all Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why ask ye me concerning my name, seeing that it is a marvel?
and he hath not to offer himself again, as the high priest goeth into the holy place every year with blood which is not his;
And they made a line round the camp, every man in his place; and all the people rose up from sleep, and fled; and with a loud voice fled.
But a man put not his hand to his mouth for fear of the curse.
And Jehovah had compassion on Hananiah, and she bore three sons and two daughters: and the child was born before Jehovah.
Remember the days that thou sawest the light, When thou wentest through a great battle;
And the voice of Jehovah came to Saul in Gibeah, and said, Is not David waiting for us in the mount of Paran, before the wilderness?
And there was a certain man of Ramah, whose name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of Ephraim,
Now therefore command thy servants, that are here before thee, to go in unto thee, and inquire of a skilful workman; and it shall be that when the evil spirit of God is upon you, he shall make melody unto thee upon his instrument, and thou shalt recover.
Now therefore take thou, and make ready a new cart, and two kine, which have not come under the yoke, and have the kine yoked to the cart, and take their young ones away from them:
And after the death of the children of Israel, the children of Israel went again after the gods of Canaan, and trespassed against Jehovah, and made Baal their god.
And when they went out, the hand of Jehovah was upon them for evil, as Jehovah had sworn, and they were very hard.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will punish Amalek for what he did unto Israel, when Israel came forth out of the land of Egypt.
And the men did so; and they took two kine, and oxen, and laded them, and shut up their young ones in their stead.
They that were full are offered themselves for bread, and they that were in need are at rest: yea, she that had no child become the mother of seven; and she that had a house is wasted with sorrow.
If any man do wrong to another, God will judge; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who will bring up his cause? But they did not hear the voice of their father; for it was Jehovah's purpose to destroy them.
Who made him angry when his voice came to them, all them that came out of Egypt with Moses?
This is the oblation of the present time; when the offering which is given are not able to make the heart of the worshipper clean,
For God is true, and will not turn away from him the remembrance of thy work, and of thy love for his name, in the help which thou gavest unto the saints.
And Micah bare the Levites; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And they answered, and we will gladly give them; and they put down a garment, and every man cast into it the earrings which he took.
And it came to pass, when Samuel had said unto all Israel, If thou wouldest return unto Jehovah, then thou shalt put away all the foreign gods, and all the foreign gods, and ye shall return unto Jehovah, and serve him; and he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.
And Joseph went up against Bethel, and Jehovah was with them.
Now therefore, brethren, take heed that there is no occasion in any of you a wicked heart, and unbelieving, and turning away from the living God.
And the people had pity on the children of Benjamin, because Jehovah had cast out his wrath upon the tribes of Israel.
And if the name of Jonathan be cut off from the house of David, Jehovah will establish David.
and to Jesus by whom the new testament was made between God and man, and unto the sign of the blood, than the blood of Abel.
And he sent and made him come in, and behold, he had red hair, and fair eyes, and pleasant, and Jehovah said, Come, and anoint him, for this is he.
And Jonathan said unto him, Tomorrow is the new moon; and it shall be seen that thou art not present; for there shall be no man in thy throne.
And he said, Where have thou fought this day? And David said, Concerning the south of Judah, and the south of the father of Jerahmeel, and the south of the Kenites.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us smite them until the morning, until there is not a man of them alive. And they said, Do as seemeth right unto you. And the priest said, Let us come near unto God.
And the children of Israel turned again against the children of Benjamin, and smote the children of Benjamin with the edge of the sword, and all the cattle, and the cattle, and all that was therein, every city that came into their hands.
so that your glorying in me may be multiplied in Christ Jesus through my being present with you.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come hither unto me; and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And he had the tower of Phanuel broken down, and the men of the city slew.
And David again smote the land, and smote the land, until there was not a man, nor a woman: and he took the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the camels, and returned to them.
Now when David had finished talking with Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and David loved him as his very life.
And they said unto them, I and my people were in danger, and the children of Ammon were cruel unto us; and I sent unto you, and thou gavest me no help against them.
And Jehovah gave them judges, as well as their saviours from the hand of the oppressor.
And the other was grieved with her, for Jehovah had not given her children.
then shalt thou go down before me unto Gilgal, where I will come unto thee, for the offering of burnt offerings and peace offerings; and tarry there seven days, until I come unto thee, and declare unto thee what thou hast to do.
There was no man to strengthen them, and there were no more armed men in the cities: there was a shield, or a spear, to be seen among forty thousand in Israel.
And the kine went up straight through the way to Bethshemesh; and they went by the way, and did not turn to the right hand or to the left; and the voice of their voice was clear on the way; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto Bethshemesh.
And one of the people said unto him, Thy father put the people under an oath, saying, Let him be cursed that eateth bread this day; and the people fainted, and hunger.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give ye bread to my people, for they are weary; I will go after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And from thence he went up against the people of Debir: ( the name of Debir was Kirjath.)
In the days of Shelomith, the son of Jephunneh, in the days of Jai, the highways were not used; and they journeyed by the way.
And Israel and the Philistines had gathered themselves together, and they were armed against the host.
And they saw an Egyptian, whom they took to David; and they gave him bread, and he ate bread, and gave him water for drink.
But he said unto me, Thou art with child, and shalt give birth unto a son; neither shalt thou take wine, nor strong drink, neither shalt thou eat anything unclean: for the child shall be separated from his birth unto the day of his death.
For if we do evil, after we have known the truth, there is no more sin.
And the Philistines came together to make war against Israel, three thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people like the sand of the sea: they came up, and rose in Michmash, to the east of Beth-aven.
And it came to pass, when the young men of David came, they spake all this unto the wife of the Carmelite, and said nothing more.
And it came to pass, when they waited, that they tarried, and passed by the stone, and went to the den.
This is what we will do unto Gibeah: We will go up against it by the judgment of Jehovah.
And they turned aside from their way to the house of the Levites, the house of Micah, and said unto him, Is it well with thee?
And thy daughters he shall make perfume, and his daughters with spices, and with studs of myrrh.
And Samuel went after Saul; and Saul bowed down before Jehovah.
And they smote Benjamin, and went after them, and drove them from the midst of the Nohah, even unto the east side of Gibeah.
that it became known through all the praetorium, and all the rest, that I was a prisoner for Christ.
And they took all the flocks and herds, and drove them before him, saying, These are David's.
If a man pass over against his enemy, will he let him be delivered? So shall ye be blessed by Jehovah for what thou hast done unto me this day.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, the least of all the tribes of Israel? and my house, the least of the house of Benjamin, why do ye speak these words unto me?
And it came to pass, when David was at Nob, unto Abimelech the priest, and Abimelech was full of fear at the presence of David, and said unto him, Why art thou thyself by thyself, having no man with thee?
But ye have not kept the word which saith unto you, My son, provoke not the Lord's punishment, neither shalt thou put your trust in the day of visitation.
Go, and cry unto the gods of thy chosen; Let them be thy saviours in the time of thy trouble.
And Samuel said, All Israel shall come to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for thee.
so that I may meditate upon you in this way, because I have thee in my heart, and in my chain, and in my strife before the judges, making clear that it is true, that ye all have your part with me in grace.
It is no more my pleasure for Saul to be king: for he hath turned back from following my ways, and hath not obeyed my commandments. And Samuel was very sad, crying unto Jehovah all night.
And the Philistines went and pitched their tents in Judah round about.
And it came to pass, when the time came to give unto him the daughter of Saul, the daughter of Saul, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
And it came to pass, when the day came for Elkanah to make his oblation, that he gave to his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, their portion of the feast,
Gilead was over the Jordan; and Dan waited in his ships; and Asher dwelt in his place by the sea, and dwelt by his way.
And all the children of Israel and all the people went up to Bethel, weeping, and stood before Jehovah, and fasted all day until evening, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
There is an old saying, From the wicked cometh evil; But my hand shall not be lifted up against thee.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in me?
Let them give heed to it, that go on white asses, And they that walk in the way.
And the watchman saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, If thou wilt tell us the way into the city, we will be gracious unto thee.
And it came to pass, when thy father saw that I am away, saying, David sought me for himself, that he might go to Bethlehem, to his city: for it is the time when his house made their oblation year by year.
and thou shalt have no cause for sorrow, neither shall my lord's heart be troubled, because thou hast taken life without cause, and hast borne thy iniquity; and thou hast dealt bountifully with thy servant.
And it came to pass, that she was ninety hundred years old, and his eyes were fixed, that he could not see.
that ye may give your righteousness to the good things, that ye may be true and without fault till the day of Christ;
And when Saul spake to the priest, the noise of the camp of the Philistines waxed louder and louder; and Saul said unto the priest, Take your hand.
And the second day Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, and smote eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, every one with the sword.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in thy strength, and redeem thee from Midian: have I not sent thee?
And the children of Israel were servants unto Eglon, king of Moab eighteen years.
But he made himself as nothing; He taketh the form of a servant, and made himself as men.
And Memucan sent again unto the king of the children of Ammon.
who, being the glory of his glory, the true image of his substance, supporting all things by the word of his power, having given himself to sanctification from sins, took his seat at the right hand of God in heaven;
Of love, knowing that I am the witness of the gospel.
And the children of Israel said one to another, Who shall be the first to fight against the children of Ammon? and we will make him head over all Gilead.
Why didst thou keep silence among the sheep, And hear nothing but the shepherds that fed the flock?
And it came to pass, when Samuel heard all the people, that all the people should say unto Jehovah,
But the child knew not what went on; only Jonathan and David knew it.
And his friend answered him, saying, This is certainly the sword of Israel, the son of Joash, the men of Israel: God hath given up all the host of Midian into their hands.
So he made it a statute and a decree for Israel from that day until now.
And they came before the men of Gibeah, ten thousand of the best men in all Israel; and the battle was worse, and the children of Benjamin did not know that evil was come upon them.
And when they arose to go away, his father-in-law, the father's father, said unto him, Behold, the evening cometh upon, and thou shalt not go night: behold, the day is almost gone. Take thy rest, and let thy heart be merry, and to-morrow thou shalt go up to thy house.
And the servant said unto him, Behold now, in this city there is a man of God, who is highly honored, and all that he saith cometh true: let us go thither now, that he may grant us our journey.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jires, and went through Gilead and Manasseh, and came to Mizpah; and from Mizpah he went over to the children of Ammon.
And when Saul went to inquire unto Jehovah, Jehovah gave him no answer by a dream, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And I will have mercy on their iniquity, and I will not remember their sins.
And Bela the son went to Gaza; and there he saw a woman, and went in unto her.
And when he had said these words, he let the tip of a bone go out of his hand: and the name of that place was called Ramah.
And Zebulun made not the inhabitants of the land, nor the inhabitants of the land: but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and made them work.
And they set their troops against them; and they took all the increase of the earth unto Gaza, until there was no bread in Israel, neither sheep, nor oxen, nor asses.
In the year of the year, in the year of the year, there is a remembrance of the sins of Jehovah.
And thou shalt say unto God, If thou wilt deliver Israel salvation by my hand, as thou hast said,
And this shall be the sign unto thee, which shall come upon the Levites, the son of Levi, and the son of Phinehas; and they shall die in the same day.
And his concubine was wroth with him, and went away from him to the house of her father in Bethlehem, and was there four months.
that even the first covenant was not made without blood.
And there was a honey on the face of the field; and all the people came to the honey, and the bees went out of it.
For he that maketh holy and those that are sanctified are all of one household; and for this reason it is no shame for him to give them the name of brethren.
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels, even Jesus, crowned with glory and glory, that he should die, that he might suffer death for all men.
And as thy life is unto me this day, let my life be unto Jehovah, and redeem me from all my troubles.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Give me an account of what thou hast done. And Jonathan answered and said, Surely I have taken a little honey upon my staff, and now death is mine.
And the servants of God said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not make songs of him in their dance, saying, Saul hath slain thousands, and David hath slain thousands.
And ye came not to a mountain which is to be touched, and to burn with fire, and with a cloud, and with a thick cloud, and with a mighty wind,
And the people were faithful unto Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, and had seen all the great work of Jehovah which he had done for Israel.
Now if it was possible for the priests of the house of the Levites, ( for the law was given unto the people of the congregation), what need was there for the priest that is of the order of Melchizedek, and not of the commandment of Aaron?
And Jonathan said unto David, Let Jehovah, the God of Israel, be witness; for I have said a word to my father concerning this time tomorrow, if his heart is good to David, will I not send and tell thee?
All ye have conspired against me, and not one of you hath answered me, when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and not one of you hath pity on me, neither hath I opened my eyes, that my servant hath been moved with my son against me, as at this day.
Let not my lord hearken unto the man of Nabal, the sinner: for as his name is, so is he, a man without understanding: but thy servant did not see the young men whom my lord sent.
But the princes of the Philistines were angry with him, and said unto him, Make the man go back to the place which thou hast given him; let him not go down with us to the battle, lest he be turned against us, lest he be a liar unto us: for how shall this man make peace with his lord? will it not be with the heads of these men?
And when Samuel was dead, and all Israel wept for him, they buried him in Ramah, and in his city; and Saul had cast out from the land all that had familiar spirits, and out of the land.
And Saul saw that he was wise, and feared him.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was in great trouble, and said unto him, Behold now, thy servant hath heard thy words, and I have put my life in jeopardy, according to thy word.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, was in his place before it, and said, Am I yet to go up with the battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I give it up? And Jehovah said, Go on; for to-morrow I will give him into thy hands.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou brought me up, and trouble my rest? and Saul answered, I am in great distress; for the Philistines have fought against me, and God hath gone away from me, and will not answer me any more, by the prophets or by dreams. Therefore I have sent for thee, that I may shew me what I must do.
And the princes of the Philistines went out to war; and when they went out, David was wiser than all the servants of Saul; and his name was greatly honored.
She hath stretched out her hand to the hammer, and her right hand to the hammer; and she giveth to Sisera a blow, and crushing his head, and wound, and scattereth through his face.
And David and all that were with him wept, and wept, and wept no more.
And all the people rose up as one man, and said, None of us shall go to his tent, nor go to his house.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but there was no answer. So he took her up, and put her on the ass, and went on his way, and came to his house.
Is not this David, who was called in their songs, when they dance in the dance, and said to one another, Saul hath slain myriads, and David hath slain thousands?
and that God was able to give life to the dead; and because of this he brought him back as if he were dead.
And all Israel came up from Dan to Beersheba, that Samuel had been a prophet of Jehovah.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, which, being without sin, made an offering of himself to God by the Holy Spirit, make your hearts clean from the dead, to serve the living God?
And he went down at her feet, and went down; and he was stretched out, and went down, and went down, and went down there.
And he went away from the prophets, and came to the house.
And after him came Jair the Gileadite, who ruled over Israel for twenty years.
Be free from the love of money, and good in the things which thou hast; for he hath said, I will be with thee at all times.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, O David my son: thou shalt do great things, and thou shalt do great things, and thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian, came before Jehovah.
and others being tempted, and mocked, and bound, and bound, and bound,
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hath this day come upon Israel, that one tribe is cut off from Israel?
And if thy young men ask them this thing, then let my young men have grace in thine eyes, for we are come at a good season; give to thy servants, and to David thy son.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is no God besides thee; there is no Rock like our God.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and the children of Dan sought their inheritance, to be their dwelling; for they were not divided among the tribes of Israel.
And Shammah the son said, Now I ask thee, if thou shalt answer me before the seven days of the feast, I will give thee thirty linen, and thirty changes of raiment.
And when the children of Israel in the valley, and the other side of the Jordan, saw that the army of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they came out of their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and took them for themselves.
And Jehovah said unto him, Verily, I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as if they were one man.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Say no more; let me tell thee what the Lord hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Speak.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who will answer me if thy father answereth thee?
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee unto me this day:
But this priest, because his life endureth for ever.
Now at the present time men over whom death hath power taken the tenth: but then it was taken by one of whom it is witnesses that he liveth.
And the Lord said unto him, With these three hundred men drink with their tongues, I will deliver thee, and smite the Midianites; and let the people go, every man to his place.
and ye shall make no covenant with the people of this land; and ye shall see that their altars are broken down; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice: what hast ye done?
To whom hath he sworn, that they should not come into his rest? Was it not unto them that rebel against him?
And the man said, Israel fled from the Philistines; and there was great destruction among the people; and your two sons, the Hebronites, and the chief Phinehas, were dead, and the ark of God was taken.
And David said to him, But what have I done? what hast thou seen in thy servant, while I have been with thee till this day, that I may not go, and lift up arms against them that are now making war upon my lord the king?
And Isaiah believed his words, saying, He hath made himself odious to all his people Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
Behold, here is my daughter, a virgin, and his concubine: I will send them out for you to take them, and to do with them as thou shalt; but do not be ashamed to this man.
And the children of Israel were moved with compassion for Benjamin their brother, saying, To-day one tribe is cut off from Israel.
Now the God of peace, who hath made that great shepherd of his flock, even our Lord Jesus, come again from the blood of the eternal covenant,
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: ye shall not worship the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell; but thou heardest not my voice.
And it came to pass, when the ark of Jehovah's covenant came into the camp, that all Israel cried, and the earth sounded with it.
And Jonathan went up with his hands and with his feet, and his servant went up after him; and the Philistines gave way before Jonathan, when he had smitten them, and his servant slew them.
And Jesse made his seven sons come before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not taken any of these.
And Samuel reigned in Israel all the days of his life.
For though some preach Christ out of envy, and doth pray, others do it out of a good heart;
And it came to pass, when the spirit of the spirit of God came upon Saul, that David took his instrument, and made music; and the spirit came to Saul, and he prospered; and the evil spirit went away from him.
And they gave unto him seventy shekels of silver out of the house of Baal, with which Abimelech took the support of a man of rebellion and of evil persons.
So they turned their backs toward the children of Israel, and they went in the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the city, thrust them off, and put them to the sword.
Are ye better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? hath he taken up a cause against Israel, and made war against them?
And they went aside the way of the night at Gibeah; and he went in, and sat in the street of the city; for no man brought them into his house for the night.
And Saul returned from the battle of the Philistines, and tidings was given unto him that David was in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And Saul commanded his son Jonathan, and all his servants to put David to death: but Jonathan the son of Saul delighted in David.
And I sware, saying, They shall not come into my rest.
And when the night was come, he rose up, and rose up, and took hold of the doors of the city, and took the doors, and the bars, and the bars, and put them on his back, and took them up to the top of the hill before Hebron.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the bread, and the fire came up out of the rock, burning up the flesh and the bread; and the angel of Jehovah was seen no more.
And the armed army of the Philistines went out unto Michmash.
He looketh not all the way to his secret; But the ways of others are in the heart.
And even if I have been offering for a drink offering, I have given myself for the cause of your faith; I am glad, and rejoice with you all.
And Shammah said unto her, If there be seven cords in which have not been made dry, I will faint and be like one other man.
And there shall be no need for every man to teach his brother or his neighbour, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah: for they shall all know me, great and small.
And it came to pass in the morning, that her master arose, and opened the door of the house to go on his way: and he saw his servant's wife laid on the earth at the door of the house with her hands upon the steps.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with thee upon this matter, that all thy right eyes are put out, that I may make it a reproach to all Israel.
And it came to pass that night, that the Lord said unto him, Arise, go down now against their people, for I have delivered them into thy hands.
Say now in the ears of all the cities of Shechem, Is it better for you to be king over all the children of war, or by one man only? and, behold, I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the angel of Jehovah came to the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, though thou hast not borne children, thou shalt be with child, and shalt bear a son.
So that there is no division in the house of God.
And it shall come to pass, when these signs come to thee, that ye may see that it is needful for you; for God is with you.
And the children of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil which hath been done among you?
And he took captive a young man of the people of Succoth; and he inquired of them, and the number of the men of Succoth, and of the men, seventy thousand men.
And the Lord was afraid with Sisera, and with all his chariots, and with all his host; and as for Sisera, and for Sisera, and for Sisera, and for all his host, they fled;
And Shammah the son went down to the woman, and made a feast there, as the way was among the young men.
But where there is forgiveness of them, there is no sin offering.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I took Israel out of Egypt, and redeemed you from the hand of the Egyptians, and from all the kingdoms that have kept you.
And Abimelech went after him, and fled before him; and a great number fell by the sword all the way toward the city.
And the three bands were lifted up, and the horns were broken; and when the vessels were broken, they took the rods in their left hands, and the horns in their right hands, crying out, for the Lord and for Israel.
And when Jacob and his sons came into Egypt, and were oppressed by the Egyptians, the prayer of your fathers came up unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt, and put them into this place.
And as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day if ye hear his voice,
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who gave authority unto Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But of which of the angels hath he said at any time, Sit at my right hand, Till I put all thy enemies under thy feet?
And he went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city there, and called it Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And he shall make them captains of thousands, and of fifties, and of fifties, and of fifties, and of fifties, and of hundreds; and he shall build his chariots, and build his chariots.
And Abimelech, one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, went and fled after David.
Let destruction come upon all thine enemies, O Jehovah; but let thy lovers be as the sun that goeth forth in his strength: and for forty years the land had peace.
And it came to pass, that she was old, old, old; and he heard the time that his sons were doing unto all Israel.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he fled; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, even Zebah and Zalmunna, and put all the host to the curse.
And Jesse made Shammah come before him: and he said, Jehovah hath not taken this man.
And the young men returned, and went and told him all that he had said.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man to his place.
And it came to pass, that, when he went away from Samuel, God gave him a repentance: and all these things were done that day.
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to make war against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was in great trouble.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, the firstborn of Michal the daughter of Michal, whom I will give thee for thy wife: only be strong for me, and fight in the name of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let it not be by me that his way come to him, but through the Philistines.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines saw David, and saw David, that he had a poor man in his sight: for he was only a child, tender and tender.
The tithe of thy seed, and of the fruit of thy vine, he shall give to his servants.
And the handful went in after the blade, and the fat was joined over the sickle; for he took not the sword out of his bowels: and he went out into the judgment.
Be thou strong, O Philistines, and be men; be not servants of the Hebrews, as they are unto thee: go forward to the battle without fear.
And David said in his heart, There shall be a day of death to me by the hand of Saul; but the only thing for me to go to the land of the Philistines; then Saul shall trust with me in any of the land of Israel, and I shall flee from him.
and there was a vessel of gold in it for burning incense, and the ark of the covenant, which was overlaid with gold, and that which was in it of gold for the manna; and the rod of Aaron that put forth buds, and the stones with the writing of the covenant;
Now when Samuel was old, he made judges over Israel.
If then there be any consolation in Christ, the love of love, every one of the hearts of the Spirit, mercy and mercy,
For though he was a son, through the pain which he was, the knowledge came to him, that it might be under the commandment of God.
And they cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Have thou not answered Abner? And Abner said, Who weepeth to the king?
and Jehovah hath done for my lord all the good things that he hath said he will do for you, and have made thee ruler over Israel;
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Jakeh, the son of Michri, the son of Cushi, the son of Benjamin, a Benjamite.
That we may say in a good heart, Jehovah is my help; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?
not concerned, but in all things with prayer, and in all praising God.
And Micah said unto him, Make thy dwelling with me, and be a father to me, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver a year, and thy raiment, and thy raiment.
And Abimelech went to Tarshish; and the children of Heth sent him away, and his brethren, and they would not dwell in Shechem.
And she arose, and went down upon her face to the earth, saying, Behold, I am ready to be a handmaid, and wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And Saul and all the people with him came together, and went forward to the battle; and every man's sword was turned against the man at his side, and there was a very great noise.
And David sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to the Carmelite, and speak kindly unto him in my name.
And it came to pass, when she had done so, that she took him with her, with a whole year old bullock, and an ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was yet very young.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, Great is our sin against you, for we have forsaken our God, and have been servants unto the Baalim.
And it came to pass, when she had said, I will surely go with thee, and thou shalt not honor thee: for Jehovah will give a woman into the hand of a woman; and she rose up, and went with her suburbs to hew out Kedesh.
And the king said unto the king, Thou shalt put the priests to death, and smite the priests, and smite the priests, and smite them that day, and kill them that day.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Speak no more, lest any bitter spirit be upon thee, and that thou mayest die, and the life of thy people.
And Samuel said, What is this sound of the weeping of the sheep, and of the tumult of the oxen?
And thou shalt make the molten images of thy leprosy, and of the mouse that destroyeth thy land, and give glory unto the God of Israel: and it shall be that the weight of his hand shall be taken from thee, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
And when the corn was planted, the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the people of the east came up against them;
And the trees said unto the vine, Thou comest and be king over us.
This is the good covenant which we have through Jesus.
and answered and said, It is true that thou art good in my eyes, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to battle.
Because thou hast not done the word of Jehovah, and hast done not his wrath against Amalek, so hath Jehovah done unto you this day.
But the people took of their goods, and of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the head of the curse, to make an offering unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and in the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and in its villages, and in all the cities which are by the side of the Arnon, for three hundred years, why did ye not return them at that time?
And David fled from the ascent of Ramah, and came to Jonathan, and said, What have I done? what is my transgression and my sin against thy father that he is seeking to take my life?
And no man that is not of God, as Aaron, taketh this honor for himself.
And when he had taken him down, they saw them all, sitting round about on all sides, eating and drinking among all the spoil of the Philistines, and of the land of Judah.
And they sent unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have ye against me that thou hast come to war against my land?
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Why hast thou not answered me this day? If the sin is in me, or in Jonathan my son, O Jehovah God of Israel, give forth the Urim, and if it be in thy people Israel, give them the Thummim, and by the judgment of Saul, and by the judgment of Saul, and of Jonathan.
For thou knowest that even long ago, when he desireth the blessing of his inheritance, he was turned away, though he would earnestly ask and weep, because the former was not changed.
The voice of Jehovah spake unto Samuel, and he said, Here am I.
And they said, How is the remnant of Benjamin to be given seed, that one tribe of Israel should not be moved?
But a certain scribe hath given his witness, saying, What is man, that thou keepest him in mind? what is the son of man, that thou takest him into account?
Grace be with you all.
And Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, and were troubled, and fear.
Behold, my cry shall come up unto Jehovah, and his cry shall come up unto Jehovah, and he shall send rain and rain; and thou shalt know, and know thy great sin, which thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, to make a king for yourselves.
who kept faith with God, who gave him his stead, even as Moses did in all his house.
For they that say such things make it known, that they search for a place for themselves.
For every house hath a building; but God built all things.
And he stood up, and cried with a loud voice, saying, Why art thou come out to war? Am I not a captain of the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? send out a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
So the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them up into the hand of the Ethiopians, even unto the king of Babylon; and the children of Israel were his servants eight years.
and Kish begat Saul, and Kish begat Abner, and the sons of Abital;
And it is true that there are many priests; for death hath not suffered them for ever.
And the ark of the ark was in Kiriath-jearim a long time, as much as twenty years: and all Israel sought after Jehovah with weeping.
And he made a ephod from them, and put it in the city of his city; and all Israel went after it, and was a lie to Jehovah; and it became a cause of sin upon his house.
And David went whithersoever he sent him, and was wise; and Saul put him in the head of his men of war, and this was fair to all the people as well as the servants of Saul.
And it came to pass, that the vision was great, that Moses said, I am shaking with fear.
And David said, What is the portion of this man's portion in the wilderness, that there was no loss of anything that was his? for he hath rewarded me evil for good.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to forced labor, and drove them out.
And they sent men to spy round about Beth-el: for the name of the city was Luz.
and when he was made perfect, he was the giver of eternal salvation unto all that are under his commandments:
And Saul sent messengers to David in that night, to keep him in the morning, that he might put him to death in the morning. And Michal the wife of David said unto him, If thou wilt not go out to a place in the night, thou shalt be put to death in the morning.
then shalt thou go on from thence; and when thou comest to the oak of Tabor, thou shalt see three men going up unto God to Bethel, and one with him three kids of the goats, and three cakes of bread, and another a skin full of wine.
By faith he went out of Egypt, and did not turn away from his purpose by fear of the king's wrath: for he kept on his way, as seeing him that is not seen.
For the man that cometh into his rest hath rest from his works, as God did from his.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the house of Joshua, and came to an end there by a great stone, and cut up the wood of the cart, and made a burnt-offering of the herd to Jehovah.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Thou comest, and be king over us.
But Jonathan, having no knowledge of the oath that his father had put upon the people, stretched out the staff that was in his hand, and put it in the honeycomb, and put it to his mouth; then his eyes were made bright.
and thou shalt see, my father, and see the hem of thy garment in my hand: for I have taken off the hem of thy garment, and hast not put thee to death; and I have done thee no evil, and I have done thee no wrong, though thou art waiting for my life.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have done wickedly, because we have turned away from Jehovah, and have worshiped the Baalim and the Geshurites; and now, save us from our enemies, and we will be thy servants.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was troubled; and his heart was troubled.
And they went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and through the land of Baca; but they saw no sign of them: and they went through the land of the Ethiopians, but they were not there: and they went through the land of Benjamin, but they did not come over them.
For he made not the angels over the world to come, whereof I write.
But as it is clear that some went in, and that the first hearing of the gospel could not go in, because they had gone against God's commandment,
And I said, I will not send them out from before you; but they shall be a snare unto you, and their gods shall fall unto you.
And the princes of the Philistines gave her the seven pieces of cords, which had not been dried up, and bound up all round about him.
And they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the ark with the golden images.
And a man came to Saul, saying, Be quick and come; for the Philistines have fought against the land.
And David took all that Amalek had taken; and he took away his two wives.
And Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and went in search of David and his men upon the rocks of the mountains.
And the children of Israel kept not in their heart Jehovah their God, who saved them from all their enemies on every side.
And Saul gave David his raiment of war, and put a crown of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a robe of brass.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man to his tribe, and every man his house, every man to his inheritance.
And he said unto his servants, Behold, the man is clearly off his head: why have ye let him come before me?
Wherefore I have given him unto Jehovah: for he is Jehovah's; and he shall serve there.
As for thy asses, which have wandered for three days, thou shalt not remember them; for they are come again. For whom are all the desire in Israel? are they not for you, and for your father's house?
And the kings of Canaan came to the battle, and the kings of Canaan fought, and the waters of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo, and did not profit them.
And the transgressors answered them, and said, Who is David, the son of Jesse? there are many servants in these days running away from their masters.
If they say unto us, Keep silence from whence thou art until we come unto thee; then we will keep our place, and not go up unto them.
And they returned, and came to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the wilderness toward the wilderness.
And Joseph said that the children of Israel should go out of Egypt, and commanded his bones.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; for we have taken an oath in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and my seed for ever: and David went away, and Jonathan went into the city.
And Samuel said, Though thou mayest seem little to thyself, art thou not head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah with the holy oil made thee king over Israel.
And within the second veil was the place which is called the Holy Place.
And he said unto her, Give me now a little water, for I have need of a drink. And she opened a bottle of milk, and she gave him drink, and covered him again.
And the three born of Jesse went with Saul to the battle: and the name of the three that went to war was Eliab the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and Shammah the third.
For this is the covenant which I will make with the children of Israel after those days: I will put my law into their heart, and write them in their heart; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people:
And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where there is a tumult of the Philistines; and when ye come to the city, ye shall see a company of prophets coming down from the high place with instruments of music before them, and they shall be as prophets.
And the priest answered David, and said, I have no bread here, but there is holy bread; but if the young men have kept themselves from women.
And he had forty sons, and the sons of thirty sons, that were born to him in asses, and he reigned eight years.
They wandered in waste places, and in hills, and in holes in the rocks; for whom the world was not good enough.
At the sound of my horn, and the horns of them that are with me, let your horns be sounded round about the camp, and say, Jehovah, and upon the altar.
And Saul said unto his servants that were there, Give ear now, O Benjamin: and, behold, the son of Jesse, the son of Jesse, shall give to every one of you fields and vineyards, and will make thee captains of hundreds and captains of thousands;
And on the morrow after the new moon, that is, the second day, there was no one in the place of David; and Saul said unto his son Jonathan, Why hath the son of Jesse not come to the feast?
And they set up for themselves the image which Micah had made; and it was there all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Jonathan answered his father Saul, saying unto him, Why should he die? what hath he done?
And the Spirit of Jehovah went out from thence, and the spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
and all these people that are here this day may see that Jehovah giveth not salvation with the sword and with the spear: for the fight is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hands.
but come to the mountain of Zion, to the place of the living God, to the Jerusalem which is in heaven, and to an army of angels, which can not be numbered;
Now therefore keep thou, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before thine eyes.
And they sent for all the princes of the Philistines, and they came together, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken away to Gath; and they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
And the vine said unto them, Am I to give up my wine, that maketh God glad and men, that he may be parted by the trees?
And it shall come to pass in the morning, when the sun riseth up, and rise up early, and rush upon the city; and when he and his people come out against thee, do unto them whatsoever thou hast a chance to do.
Now the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and all the people of the east covered the valley like grasshoppers, and their camels as the sand by the sea, without number.
And the men of Benjamin did, and took wives for themselves, and took them away from the dance; and they returned to their inheritance, and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And for the third time the name of Jehovah spake unto the name of Samuel. And he arose, and came to him, and said, Here am I, for thou hast spoken my name; and it was clear that the voice which was called the child's name was Jehovah's.
And he said unto them, Come after me; for Jehovah hath given the Moabites thy enemies into your hand. So they went down after him, and took the valley of the Jordan against Moab, and let none go over.
So they went on their way; and the sun came down, when they were at Gibeah in the land of Benjamin.
For the son of Jesse is in the earth, and thy throne is in danger, and thy kingdom is in danger: therefore make him come hither unto me: for he shall surely die.
Did I take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, and to go up unto my altar, to make the smoke of the offering go up, and to take up the ephod? Did I give unto your father's house all the offerings of fire by the children of Israel?
And the border went up toward the side of Michmash, in Michmash, and the south toward Geba.
For the daughters of women have died, and they have persecuted themselves, and have no desire to go free, that they might have a better life.
But now Christ is come unto the high priest of the good things of the world, which is greater and profitable, not made with hands, that should speak, not of this world;
And what shall we do for women? for we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them our daughters for wives.
And Melchizedek was yet in his father's body, when Melchizedek came to him.
But faith is the things which are waiting for, and the sign which is not seen is true.
And Japhlet went together with all the men of Gilead, and made war against Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, that the ears of all that hear of it shall be burned.
And Jonathan put his bow and arrows to the child, and said unto him, Take these, and go to the city.
And when they came to Gibeah, a band of prophets came face to face with him; and the Spirit of God came upon him with power, and took his place among them as a prophet.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto the Kenites, Behold, they come down from the top of the mountains: and the Kenite said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains like men.
And the king said unto the couriers that stood over him, Put ye the priests of Jehovah to death: for they are on David's side, and in his knowledge, and did not answer me: but the servants of the king would not put out their hands against the priests.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but walk contrary unto his commandments, then shall the hand of Jehovah be upon you and against your king for your destruction, as it was against your fathers.
And he said, This is the way of king that shall be thy prince: he will take thy sons, and make them his servants, and his horsemen, and his chariots, and they shall run before his chariots.
And David and Abishai came down to the camp by night; and Saul slept with his own ring, and his spear was in the earth by his head; and Abner and the people slept with him.
and thirty sons, and thirty asses, and thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which is called the Towns of Jair unto this day.
For he is put to the test; he is able to give help to others when they are tempted.
And when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines came near against Israel; but at the thunder of Jehovah that day the Philistines were afraid, and they gave way before Israel.
Now it came to pass, that his father and his mother knew not that this was the counsel of Jehovah, who destroyed the Philistines. Now the Philistines reigned over Israel.
Then smote the camp, and all the people with him; and they rose up early, and put up their tents by the side of the river; and the tents of Midian were on the left side of the valley of Moreh.
And she had her seat under the palm-tree between Ramah and Bethel, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her to be judged.
For a land, and drink in the plentiful rain, and that bringeth forth good plants for them to whom it is wrought, hath a blessing from God:
For this time I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt put the holy oil upon him; and thou shalt make him ruler over my people Israel; and he will deliver my people from the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen the sorrow of my people, whose cry is come up unto me.
And to whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all things which he had, the first name of righteousness, and also the king of Salem, that is to say, king of Peace;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast put me in a dry land, now give me springs of water. So Caleb gave her the upper spring, and the lower spring.
And truly, the good tidings came unto us, as it did unto them: but the hearing of the word did not good, because they believed not in faith with the hearers.
And for forty years the land was quiet, until the death of Othniel the son of Kenaz.
And Hananiah prayed before Jehovah, saying, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah; my horn is lifted up in Jehovah: my mouth is open over mine enemies; for my joy is in thy salvation.
And he smote them, and discomfited them, and destroyed them, and destroyed them; and he went forth to his dwelling place in the rock of Etam.
Let us therefore make offerings of praise unto God in all times through him, that is to say, the fruit of lips for his name.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other was Penuel; and she was the mother of the children, but she had no children.
And the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this nation is not true to my covenant which I made with their fathers, and hath not heard my voice,
And it came to pass, when they were near the house of Micah, that they heard a voice that was not strange unto them, that of the young priests, they went out to his place, and said unto him, How camest thou hither? and what are ye doing in this place? and why are ye here?
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and there make the kingdom strong in the hand of Saul.
and when the spoil was come, the people took oxen, and oxen, and oxen, and killed them there on the earth, and ate, and took the flesh with the blood in it.
And the wife of Jonathan was given to the companion of the man that was the first man.
And he set up the rods, and let the foxes loose among the fallen corn of the Philistines, and the fair corn, and the vineyards, and the olive trees, and the olive oil.
And the priest of the house of Dagon, and the priest of Dagon, shall put his foot upon the gate of Dagon in Ashdod.
All these came to their end in faith, not having the inheritance: but when they saw it afar off, they testified that they were wanderers and not of the earth.
And he kept the passover by faith, and put the blood of the blood upon the houses, that the angel of perdition slew not their firstborn children.
Behold, the king hath chosen thee; Jehovah hath anointed thee.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, and said unto David, Behold, thou and thy men shall go out with me to battle.
And the servants of Saul told him what David had said.
Now therefore, O king, have thy soul's desire, and come down, and we, for our portion shall deliver him into the king's hands.
And he said, What hath Jehovah said unto you? Keep it not from me: let the punishment of God be upon you, if ye keep from me anything that he spake unto you.
Woe to us! for who shall save us from the hands of these great gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians in the wilderness.
And in the morning, when the wine was gone, the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal told him all these things; and all the heart went out of him, and he became as stone.
who through faith overcame kingdoms, did righteousness, did righteousness, and hid the mouth of lions;
that I have sent him, that he may be happier, that when ye see him again, ye may be glad, and I may be sorrowful.
And it is not possible to please him: for it is necessary for him that cometh to God to believe that God is, and that he is a doer of all them that seek him.
And Jonathan said, Be not thou thought: for if I saw that my father spake evil against thee, would I not tell thee of it?
And the Philistines stood on the mount on one side and Israel on the mount on the other side; and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Give me the portion which I commanded thee to keep.
And her father said, It pleased me that thou hadst only hated her; so I gave her to thy friend: but is not her younger sister better than she? then thou shalt take her in place of the other.
And he said to the lad, Go, and fetch the arrow, I pray thee, let me loose from my bow. And when he fled, he sent an arrow by him.
And he said, They were my brethren, and my mother's sons: by the life of Jehovah, if thou hadst kept them safe, I would not put thee to death.
And they went from thence to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And Saul was told that David was at Ramah in Ramah.
And that day he gave him the name of Jerubbesheth, saying, Let Baal take up his cause against him, because his altar is broken down.
in the measure of my strong hope, and believing that in nothing will I be put to shame, but not in fear, as at all times; so shall Christ glory in my body, by life, or by death.
As for the battle which ye have seen in me, and have now spoken in me.
And Jonathan said, My father hath made trouble come upon the earth: now see now now my eyes have grown, for I have taken a little of this honey.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men there, and took their clothes from them, and gave it to the men that answer him. And he was full of wrath, and returned to his father's house.
And after this he loved a woman in the valley of Eshcol, called by name.
For God hath kept good things for us, that it is not possible for them to be perfected without us.
And David said, Ye shall not do this, my brethren, according to what Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us safe, and delivered our hands into our hands.
But the righteous shall live by his faith; And if he return, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
For I have no man like a man, That he should have respect unto thee.
And it came to pass, when their heart was full of joy, that they said, ``Send for us a son to mock, that they may mock us. ''And they cast him out of the prison, and mocked him, and set him between the pillars.
Even as Zebah and Zalmunna said, Arise, put an end unto us: for thou art a man's strength: then thou shalt arise, and destroy thee, and destroy thee, and destroy thee, and put thy ornaments upon thy camels.
And the heart of the priest was glad, and took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went with the people.
And this cause is by him, that a new covenant is come, that after the law was taken away by his death, the word of God might be fulfilled unto them that were chosen for an everlasting inheritance.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will bring forth my name from the beginning, even all things which I have spoken concerning his house.
And by the law almost all things are cleansed with blood; and without blood there is no atonement.
My hand shall not be stretched out against the man that sitteth with the holy oil; but thou shalt take the spear upon his head and the pitcher, and let us go.
For he then will I hope to send in haste, when I am able to see how things shall be for me:
And above it were the cherubims of glory with their wings covering the mercy-seat; and they were not able to speak in writing.
And it came to pass, when it was said unto the giant, Jonathan is here. So they went round, and beheld him all the day at the door of the city; but at night they kept silence, saying, When day cometh we shall kill him.
And his servant said unto him, Whatever is in thine heart: behold, I am with thee in all thy heart.
But those things which are profitable for me I gave up for Christ.
And David took his sword, and put the girdle round about him, and he could not go forth; for he was not willing to go forth; and David said unto Saul, It is not for me to go out with these, for I am not with them. So David took them away.
And David came to Saul, and waited before him; and he was very dear unto Saul, who made him his servant, and gave him the care of his hands.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints which are in Christ Jesus in Philippi, with the edifying and ministers of the assembly:
And six hundred armed men of the children of Dan stood by the door.
And Ehud went forth into the midst, and shut the doors of the summer house upon him, and lay them up.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had fought against the south and in Ziklag, and had overcome in Ziklag, and put it on fire;
And we saw that they could not go in, because they believed not.
But Hananiah went not, for she said unto her husband, I will not go until the child is taken from the breast, and I will take him with me, and set him before Jehovah, where he may be for ever.
and in Hebron, and unto all the places where David and his men dwelt.
And they put away the strange gods out of the midst of them, and became the servants of Jehovah; and his soul was wroth because of the sorrows of Israel.
And it came to pass, that his mother's house spake unto him in the ears of all the people of Shechem, saying, He is our brother.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou go mourning for Saul, seeing that I have put him out of his place as king over Israel? take oil in thy vessel, and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the Gittite: for I have made a king for myself among his sons.
And he shewed them the way into the city, and they smote it with the edge of the sword; but they let the man, and all his house escape.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, The blessing of Jehovah be with thee: I have done what was commanded by Jehovah.
And it came to pass on their way to the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Give thy servant orders to go before us, that he went on, but thou hast kept here, that I may give thee the word of God.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; and the children of Israel went before Benjamin, and put their trust in the eyes of the children of Israel, who were to encamp at Gibeah.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as before.
And the king sat, as at other times by the wall; and Jonathan was before him, and Abner sat by Saul's side; but there was none in David's throne.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and took his seat under the oak in Ophrah, in the field of Joash the Hushathite; and he smote the corn in the place of the winepress, so that the Midianites might not see it.
And he said unto them, Keep your eyes upon me, and do as I do: when I come into the midst of the tents, ye shall do the same.
Give not therefore your hope which shall be great.
having no fear of them that are against thee; which is a sign of their destruction, but of thy salvation, and of God;
And he walked in the land of the covenant, and dwelt in the land of the covenant, with Isaac and Jacob, who had a part with him in the midst of the land.
For thou hast pity on them that were in prison, and have rejoiced in the loss of thy inheritance, in the knowledge that thou hast attained unto thee, and that thou shouldest keep it for ever.
For Jehovah will not give up his people, because of the glory of his name; for it is Jehovah's pleasure to make of you a people for himself.
For our brother Timotheus is delivered out of prison; and if he come in a little while, I will come unto thee.
And let your gentle conversation be manifest unto all men; for the Lord is nigh.
And he said unto them, If ye go in like this, I will take my reward from thee; and that shall be the end of it.
Keep thy place now, while I plead with thee before Jehovah, and give thee the account of the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hath made known to thee and to your fathers.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels: Thou gavest him a crown of glory and honor, And made him ruler over all the works of thy hands.
And she said unto her, Go in peace; and let the God of Israel answer thee unto the prayer which thou hast made unto him.
And he sent through all Manasseh, and they came after him; and he sent to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up, and were joined to the others.
And Saul said, Give counsel between Jonathan and Jonathan. And Jonathan was taken.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they looked, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
And her husband arose, and went after her, and spake kindly unto her, and took her with him; and he had with him his young man and two asses; and she brought him into her father's house; and her father, when he saw him, came forth to him with joy.
And the king said unto her, Fear not, what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
the doctrine of baptizing, and of the putting of hands, and of the dead, and of the dead on the last day.
And he had a son named Saul, and he was a very handsome child; and there was no one deputed among the children of Israel; and he was greater than all the people.
And the hair of his head was beginning after it had been cut off.
And he said, What hast thou done? And Saul answered, Because I saw that the people were going away from me, and ye came not at the time that was appointed; and the Philistines came together at Michmash.
And the children of Israel were beaten under their yoke, for eighteen years all the children of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which is in Gilead, were oppressed.
And the children of Dan sent five men out of their number, mighty men of Zorah, and Eshtaol, to see the land, and to search for it; and they said unto them, Go, and search through the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to the house of Micah, where they made a halt for the night.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah, and offered peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced with great joy.
And the men of Gibeah came together against me, and compassed the house round about by night: it was their purpose to kill me, and my servant's wife was by them, and was dead.
And Ephraim made not the Canaanite, who dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanite dwelt in Gezer with them.
And it came to pass, when he came to a place where the flocks were, that there was a hollow in the rock; and Saul went in for a secret. And David and his men were in the bottom of the hollow.
And David took the head of the Philistines unto Jerusalem, and he put the shields and the arms in his tent.
whose voice was the cause of the shaking of the earth; but now he hath sworn, saying, There shall be yet one shaking, not only of the earth, but of heaven.
And Elijah said unto the angel of Jehovah, Let us now keep thee, and we shall prepare thee a goat.
And David said unto Jonathan, Tomorrow is the new moon, and I will not sit with the king at his table: but let me go to a place in the land until the evening.
And I will make a holy priest for myself, that shall do that which is in my heart and in my heart; and I will make for him a house which shall not come to an end, and his place shall be before my holy one for ever.
For they came up continually with their oxen and their tents; they came as the locusts in number; they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land for its destruction.
And they delivered none of them, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no business with the Syrians; and it was in the valley of Beth-Rehob, and they built the city again.
that I was wroth with this generation, and said, Their heart is in error at all times, and they know not my ways;
And the princes of the Philistines came together to make a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to be glad; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands the enemy our enemy.
And the children of Israel said unto the king of Israel, Thou art our prince, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast been our saviour out of the hand of Midian.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in the wilderness, in the wilderness in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
And God sent unto the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil that they had done, and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem strove unto Abimelech.
And the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and forty thousand of the children of Israel that day.
And he took the elders of the city, and smote them with thorns and with harrows of thorns.
For our God is a consuming fire.
And Adam said unto his wife, Death shall surely be our portion; for it is a god whom we have seen.
And the parable came to his house at Mizpah; and his daughter came out, and met him on his way with music and dancing; and she was only child, and had no sons or daughters.
And the woman ran quickly, and told her husband, saying, I have seen him that came unto me the second day.
And Saul heard that David had gone to Gath, and went after him no more.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, the evil spirit of God troubleth you.
And it came to pass, at the time of harvest, when the harvest was reaped, that he took a young goat, and went to see his wife; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber of the bride: but her father would not let him go in.
And Shammah the son of Barachel said, I have made them red with blood, I have made them red with blood, with the sole of an ass of scarlet, and I have killed a thousand.
And the priests' journey with the people: when every man had an offering, the servant of the priest came before him, and the flesh was boiled in his hand, with three teeth in his hand.
Brethren, take me as an example, and take note of them that walk after the pattern which we have given.
And the children of Benjamin said, They set before us as at first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight, and let us go into the highways.
And he waited for seven days, the time appointed by Samuel; but the people came not unto Gilgal; and the people began to go away from him.
And he said unto the men of Peniel, When I come again in peace, I will have this wall broken down.
And David answered and said unto the priest, Behold, women have been kept from us; and as soon as I have gone out the arms of the young men were made holy, even though it was a very great journey; how much more shall their hands be made holy.
For it is more better than the angels, and the name which is his inheritance is greater than theirs.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, and all his people; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down branches of trees, and took them, and put them on his back. And he said unto the people that were with him, Be quick, and do as thou hast seen me.
And this is the thing that thou shalt do: every male, and every woman that lieth with a man, thou shalt put to the curse; but thou shalt keep the young virgins: and they did so.
And Jehovah will give thee up into my hand, and I will smite thee, and I will take away thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines to the fowl of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth, that all the earth may see that Israel hath a God.
And Jotham fled, and fled to Beer-sheba, and dwelt there for the fear of Abimelech his brother.
But give comfort to one another every day as long as it is yet this day, that no one among you may be made hard with the deceit of sin:
And he divided the three hundred men into three bands, and gave each man a horn, and a vessel in which was a flaming reed.
and now, behold, the king is before thee; and I am old and tender, and my sons are with thee: I have lived before thine eyes from my early days until now.
Now therefore, let my sin be forgiven, and go with me to worship Jehovah.
And David heard that the Carmelite was dead, and said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath taken up my cause against the sinner for the shame that he put upon me, and hath kept back his servant from evil, and hath sent to the crown of Nabal the wife of Nabal. And David sent word to Abigail, to take her as his wife.
And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who can stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go from us?
And Moses believed also a servant in all his house, and as a witness of them that were to be said hereafter.
And the wicked and wicked men among them that went with David said, Because they went not with us, we will give them nothing of the spoil which we have returned, but every man his wife and his children, that he may take them and go.
And they said unto him, Seek us from God, that we may see if the way wherein we go shall be good.
And the five men that went to search through the land, went in, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest was by the door, with the six hundred men of valor.
For the word of God is full of power, and of power, and of power, than that which is of a two-edged sword, and of the body, and of the spirit, and of the bones, and of the body, and of the bones, and of the thoughts of the heart.
And they that make war against Jehovah shall be broken; and he shall send forth his voice from heaven: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; he will give strength to his king, and shall lift up the horn of him upon whom the holy oil is put.
But a certain woman sent a great stone, which was in the midst of Abimelech's head, to the head.
And the light of God was yet burning, while Samuel slept in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And Deborah the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, made this song, saying,
and being seen in form as a man, he took the lowest place, and he was put to death, even the death of the cross.
To whom, though he himself was in the likeness of God, it was not that he should take himself to himself as God;
And thou shalt send forth the son of Jesse in the offering, and I will shew thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt put the holy oil upon him whose name I give thee.
And the sin of these young men was very great before Jehovah: for they gave no honor unto Jehovah.
Behold, the days come when thy arm and the arm of thy father's people shall be cut off;
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz, and Abner the son of Ner, the brother of Saul's father.
And they said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, speak quickly; and he said, Thou shalt not speak to it in the right way; and they took him, and slew him in the plains of Jordan: and forty thousand of the children of Ephraim were slain.
For unto you it is given in the cause of Christ not only to believe in him, but to suffer for his sakes.
And the thorn said unto the trees, If it be true that thou wouldest make me king, then come and lay thy faith in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and burn up the cedars of Lebanon.
And when Abiathar the son of Chenaanah went in flight to David, he came down to Keilah with the ephod in his hand.
And this is known, that the second priest is like Melchizedek;
And she laid it before Saul and his servants, and they ate bread; and they arose, and went away the same night.
And Enoch was taken up to heaven, that he should not die; but he was seen no more; for God took him away: for before he was taken, a witness was given to God.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that before he went into the chamber of the bride, the men of the city said unto him, What is better than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not been plowing with my heifer, ye would not answer me.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: for ye have done evil, and be not turned away from Jehovah; be ye his servants with all your heart.
And they said, Ye have no desire for offering, for burnt offering, and for sin, which are made by the law, and ye have no pleasure in them;
And Elon the Jebusite came to his death; and his body was in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
But Sihon would not go forth, and let Israel pass through his land; and Sihon gathered all his people together, and set his people in array in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they said unto Jonathan the son of Barachel the son of Barachel, that thou shalt inquire of thee, saying, Lest we have found thee and thy father's house burned with fire, and hast thou brought us here to possess us?
And David was greatly troubled; for the people spake to stone him, because their heart was bitter, every man mourning for his sons and for his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And Michal took the image, and put it in the bed, with a camel's hair upon his head, and she put raiment thereon.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, The son-in-law of the sister of Serah, because he took his wife, and delivered her to his friend. And the Philistines came up, and had her, and her father's house.
But now we will do this, if God will grant us.
And Abimelech with his band made haste, and rose up at the entrance of the gate; and the other two bands beat upon all that were in the field, and smote them.
And they said unto him, This is the word of Japhlet: Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands; and they smote ten thousand of them.
And the children of Israel made a breach in the battle; and Benjamin fell, and slew thirty of the men of Israel, saying, Surely they fall before us as in the first battle.
And they gave that place the name of Jehovah, to Jehovah, and made an offering there unto Jehovah.
but to-day thou art turned away from thy God, who hath delivered thee out of all your troubles, and out of all your troubles; and thou hast said unto him, Set a king over us: and now thou shalt stand before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And the Philistines prevailed, and went not again into the land of Israel: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
But walk in the fear of Jehovah, and be faithful unto him with all your heart, according to all that he hath done unto thee.
And Abdon, the son of Jeroham, came to his death; and he died, and dwelt in the valley of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not: thou art in no manner of death.
And it came to pass, when David came to Ziklag, that he sent some of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Behold, here is an offering for you from the spoil of Jehovah.
And Saul said, I have done wrong: come unto me, O David my son: I will do thee no more wrong: for my life is dear unto thee this day; for I am foolish, and my error is very great.
And Samuel took the bottle of oil, and anointed his head, and kissed him, and said, Is not Jehovah with the holy oil to reign over Israel, and to his people? and thou shalt have dominion over the people of Jehovah, and thou shalt deliver them from the hand of their enemies round about them, and this shall be the sign unto thee.
Go not away till I come with my offering, and put it before thee. And he said, I will not go away from before thee.
and said unto him, Fear not; for Saul my father will not deliver thee into his hand; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be by thy side, and Saul my father knoweth this.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, If thou wilt keep me, I will not eat of thy bread; but if thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, let it be offered unto Jehovah: for it had not come into another man's mind that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And David said unto Abishai, Thou shalt not put him to death: for who hath sinned, that he may put forth his hand against the man whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil?
And the cities which the Philistines had taken back again to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and all the land round about them, whom Israel had redeemed from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And when David and his men came to the city, they saw that it was burned down, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
And when thou comest thither, thou shalt come to a people that dwell in vain, and the land is spacious, and God hath given it into thine hands; and there is a place where all the earth is.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image for themselves; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests of the tribe of Dan, until the day when the ark was taken captive.
And it came to pass, when Samuel had done the work of Jehovah's house, that he was a child, clothed in a linen ephod.
And they took the daughters of these nations, and gave their daughters to their sons, and became servants unto their gods.
And the men of Judah said, Why have ye come up against us? And they said, We have come up to take up the son, and to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And they said, Thou hast not dealt treacherously with us, neither have thou persecuted us: thou hast taken nothing from man.
And when the men of Ashdod saw it, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us; for his hand is heavy upon us, and our god Dagon.
And from that day Saul was jealous of David.
And the children of Ephraim came together, and took up arms, and went to the north; and they said unto them, Why did ye go over to make war against the children of Ammon, and not send for us to go with you? and we will lay thy house upon you.
Then said he unto Zebah and Anammelech, Where are the men whom thou hast slain at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Great is my sin: for I have walked contrary to the commandment of Jehovah, and against thy words; for fear the people, I have done what they said.
Because of the fat of the mighty men of Israel; For the people gave willingly, and praised Jehovah.
And all the congregation sent to the children of Benjamin, who were in the rock of Rimmon, to offer them peace.
Then said he unto Samuel, Go again; and if the voice be come, let thy word be, and thou shalt say, Lord; for the ears of thy servant are open. So Samuel returned to his bed.
And he took his staff in his hand, and took five smooth stones from the bed of the river, and put them in a bag such as was used of the flocks: and in his hand was a girdle of skin, and he went in the way of the Philistines.
And Saul said unto his servants, Take me a man that is a lawyer, and make him come unto me.
And it came to pass after a time, that he returned to take her, and turned aside from the way to see the dead bodies of the lion, and saw a swarm of bees in the den of lions, and honey there.
We have an altar from which the priests that are in the tabernacle do not eat bread.
not giving up our calling, but to keep one another strong in faith; for ye see the day coming nigh.
And they returned unto their brethren in Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What have ye heard?
and the peace of God, which is deeper than all knowledge, shall keep your heart and mind in Christ Jesus.
For they verily gave us punishment for a little while, as it pleased them; but he did it for our sakes, that we might be holy as he is.
At that time they put about ten thousand men of Moab to the sword, every strong man, and every man of war: not a man went away.
And he came, and fetched three hundred foxes, and fish of fire; and he set the prey of the sea to the tail, with a stick between the two tails.
But I have faith in the Lord, that I also will come before many.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her as he spake in his oath; and she had never touched a man: so it became a rule in Israel.
And Abigail arose quickly, and went on her ass, and five of her maidens, after the men whom David had sent; and she became David's wife.
And they came down out of Ephraim into the valley; after thee, O Benjamin, among thy tribes; from Machir came down the captains, and from Zebulun, the rod of the prince.
And he said unto him, We are on our way from Bethlehem, even unto the parts of the hill-country of Ephraim; and I came from thence, and came to Bethlehem in Judah: now I go to my house, and no man shall bring me into his house.
And he sent to them that were in Bethel, Ramah of the south, and Jattir,
God's name was a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And every high priest is given authority to take to God the things that are given and to make offerings; that he should be like unto them, to have a gift.
So came to the end of the thousand five thousand of the men of Benjamin, that were slain in the day of Benjamin.
Now the day before Saul came, the word of God came to Samuel, saying,
And they went through the Red Sea, as if it were dry land; and the Egyptians were overthrown by the waters, when they sought to do the same.
And he reigned over Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And the hand of Jehovah was upon the people of Ashdod, and he smote them through all the land of Ashdod.
And it came to pass on the eighth day, that the children of Israel were circumcised, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew Hebrew; and a certain man was circumcised.
and in his wrath, and in his wrath, and in furious words, before the eyes of all men, and in part, and in part with them that were in this way,
For the covenant is fulfilled after death; For what power hath it in the days of the man that made it alive?
And it came to pass, that day after day she gave him no peace, for ever asked him until his soul was troubled.
And Saul took for himself three thousand men of Israel, of whom he had reserved two thousand with him in Michmash, and in the mountain of Bethel, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: the remnant of the people he sent again to their tents.
But they slew the fat of the sheep, and the fat, and the oxen, and the fat, and the fat, and that which was good, and that which was good, not willing to put them to the curse; but all that was evil, and that they should not curse.
O ye princes of Israel, come, ye that bare yourselves among the peoples: Praise ye Jehovah.
What thou hast done is not good: by the living Lord die thou, because thou hast not kept thy master, the man of whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil: behold, where is the king's spear, and the vessel of water which was by his head?
Let the punishment of God be upon David, And if in the morning there is a male of his people.
And he said unto him, Where is thy cry, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should be his servants? Is this not the people whom thou wast smitten? go forth now, and fight against them.
Now there was a young man in Bethlehem in Judah, of the house of Judah, and a Levite, who was not a man of the field.
I go forward to the mark, even the reward of God in Christ Jesus.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together at Aphek; and the children of Israel gathered themselves together by the fountain of Jezreel.
And he sent to Abimelech, and said, Behold, Shechem the son of Shelemiah, and his brethren, come to Shechem; and they have fought against you.
So the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and set themselves in array against Gibeah.
And after him Abdon the son of Dodo, the Pirathonite, prince of Israel.
Now this man was called the wife of Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail; and she was a woman of discretion, but the man was cruel and evil in his ways: he was of the family of Caleb.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's house in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
And Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand; and he went about his business before the people.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they smote the rock of Oreb, and the likeness of Zeeb; and they went after Midian; but they went after Midian; but the chiefs of Oreb and of Zeeb went up Jordan.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me now pass through thy land; but the king of Edom hearkened not unto them. And he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel dwelt in Kadesh.
And as for me, while I am yet alive, thou mayest deal kindly with me, as Jehovah is gracious, and keep me from death.
And after him, Elon the Netophathite, prince of Israel, was prince over Israel: for ten years he reigned over Israel.
And they went up into the city; and when they entered into the city, Samuel came face to face with them unto the high place.
What shall I say more? For the time shall not come to pass, for the name of Jehovah, and of the sons of Samuel, and of the sons of Samuel, and of the prophets.
But David sware, and said, Thy father seeth that I love thee; and he saith, Let Jonathan not know this, for it shall be a mourning unto him; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is a way between me and death.
And it shall come to pass, that on the third day I will send arrows upon my bow, as if it were a mark.
and ye have gone against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, even seventy men in one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his concubine, king over the city of Shechem, because he is thy brother;
Shall the king of Israel come out? for whom seekest thou? For a dead dog is a dog.
And he gave the sacrifice, and sent away the people that had come with the offering.
For for the sake of Christ he was nigh unto death, putting his life in jeopardy, that ye might be preserved by me.
making my joy perfect in the same mind, having the same love, being in peace and one mind;
And he said unto them, I beseech thee, I beseech thee, let every man give me the earrings which he hath taken: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
Hear ye that are rulers over you, and do as they say: for they keep watch over your souls, ready to give account of them; let them be able to do this with joy, and not with sorrow, because that it is profitable for you.
And he said unto his servant, Thou hast said well: come, let us go; and they went into the city of the man of God.
But if thou still do evil, destruction shall overtake thee and thy king.
And the Lord said unto the king of Israel, Take thee down to the waters, and I will put them to the water, that he may know thee there: and whosoever I say shall go with thee, and he that I say shall not go.
He shall keep the feet of his saints; But the wicked shall come to his end in the night; For by strength no man shall prevail.
He bringeth the poor out of the dust, and bringeth him out of the lowest places, to give them their place among princes, and for their inheritance the glory of glory: for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath made them the foundation of the world.
And David said unto me, If now I have found grace in thine eyes, let me have a place in one of the cities of thy land, to be my dwelling: for it is not lawful for thy servant to dwell with thee in the king's city.
then let us all, who have come to perfection, be of this mind; and if in anything ye are of one mind, even this will God make manifest unto you.
And they waited till they were ashamed, and the doors were still shut; and they took the key, and opened them, and saw their master spread out dead upon the floor.
who have set our eyes upon Jesus, the guide and the end of our faith, which went through the cross, not to suffer the shame, because of the joy which was before him; and who hath now taken his place at the right hand of the power of God?
Then David rose up, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
By faith Abraham made an offering of Isaac, when he was tempted; and he with whom the covenant had been made, as an offering the only son of his body,
and Carmel, and Carmel, and the suburbs of the Kenites;
In the same place he saith again, They shall not come into my rest.
And the inhabitants of Shechem put a secret guard upon the top of the mountains; and they smote all that went by on the way, and took their spoil; and word came to Abimelech.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Is Saul to be our king? give the men up, that we may slay them.
And Jesse sent for Abinadab, and made him come before Samuel: and he said, Jehovah hath not taken this man.
For Jehovah will visit his beloved; And every man shall be his heir.
So Abimelech rose up, and the people with him by night, to make a surprise upon Shechem.
So the children of Israel gave up the bow of Baal, and Ashtaroth, and the fear of Jehovah only.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and took him out of his mouth; and if he turned upon me, I took him by the hair, and smote him, and slew him.
And the ark of God was taken; and Chenaniah and Phinehas, the sons of Heli, were put to the sword.
And it came to pass, when he had gone, that the king's servants came, and saw that the doors of the summer house were shut; and they said, It may be that he is in his summer house for a secret.
And the watchmen of Saul, looking out of Geba in the land of Benjamin, saw all the people running away, and fled thither.
And Saul perceived that the voice was David's, and said, Is that thy voice, O David my son? And David said, It is my voice, my lord king.
and remember those that are in chains, as though ye were bound with them, and those that are in trouble, as members of the body.
And it came to pass, when the first time came to pass, that Jonathan and his servant put the sword to the edge of twenty men in the land of Gilead.
And they gathered all his chariots, and every hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the descent of the nations unto the river of Kishon.
And now, if ye have here five loaves of bread, give them into my hand, or whatsoever thou hast.
When thou hast departed from me this day, thou shalt see two men in the land of Rachel, in the land of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest in to seek have come back, and now thy father, and thou takest no more for the asses, saying, What shall I do for my son?
If in the fear of Jehovah thou art his servants, and hear his voice, and transgress not the commandments of Jehovah, but cleave unto Jehovah your God, thou and the king reign over you, all shall be well.
And it was said to Saul, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, taking the blood with the flesh. And he said unto them that told him, Now let a great stone be rolled up to me.
And David said unto his servants, Put ye upon your swords, every one of you, and every man with his sword; and David did likewise; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred men watch over their goods.
So David arose early in the morning, and went to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness unto us, for he said,
Then said he to the messengers that came, Say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, Tomorrow, by the time the sun is high, ye shall be saved. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh, and they were glad.
They shall come to their end; But thou art for ever; They shall be old as a garment.
How much more if the people have willingly taken their prey of the spoil of them that fight against them? shall not there be a great destruction among the Philistines?
And when the people saw him, they praised their God; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands the one that fought against us, who made our land desolate, and slew us many.
And the song came up to Saul at Gibeah, to see Saul, and said, Is not David dwelling among us in the fortified places of Hormah, in the hill of Paran, to the south of the wilderness?
And he returned and said unto his father and to his mother, I have seen a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines: get her now for my wife.
And they said, He is before you; go quickly quickly, for he cometh into the city to-day, for the people are making an offering in the high place this day.
for by it was our fathers justified.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people, and what they say unto thee: They have not turned away from thee, but have turned away from me, and have not desired me to reign over them.
And Asher did not take the land of the people of Sodom, or of Sidon, or of epb, or of Achzib, or of Sheba, or of Rehob, or of Rehob.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah gave them judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered their enemies from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for Jehovah was moved by their provocation because of them that were cruel to them.
And he counted them according to their number: the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And Saul had given Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of David, to Palti the son of Laish.
And they rose early in the morning, and Dagon fell upon the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off upon the threshold, and the base was in its place.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, saying,
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and took their spoil out of the camp.
And the children of Dan went on their way; and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he returned to his house.
In those days there was no king in Israel; Every man did what pleased him.
Jehovah be judge between me and thee, and the Lord give me my judgment; but my hand shall not be lifted up against you.
And he brought the people down to the waters; and the Lord said unto him, Hew ye one side, and let them drink the water with their tongue as a dog, and all that go down upon their knees to drink.
Let your desire be for peace with all men, and be made holy, that no man may see the Lord.
If he say, It is well, thy servant shall be at peace; but if he be angry, then it will be clear unto thee that he hath an evil device against me.
Behold, thou hast seen this day how Jehovah hath given thee up into my hand in the hollow of the rock; and some would have me put to death, but I have pity on thee: for I said, Thou shalt not lift up my hand against my lord, the anointed oil.
And they said unto him, We have come down to take thee, and deliver thee into the hands of the Philistines. And Jason said unto them, Give me thy oath, that ye may not hurt me.
And Saul went down upon the earth, and was afraid of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had not taken bread all that day nor all that night.
And Achbor the son of Joash went to his house, and dwelt there.
And he said unto them, This is what Micah did for me; and he gave me money, and I became his priest.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time that he had said to David, and he had a child with him.
And it came to pass, when the people of Bethshemesh were cut up in the valley, that lifted up their eyes, and lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced when they saw it.
And he shall take a tenth of thy sheep, and ye shall be his servants.
And when he was come thither, he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and all the children of Israel went down with him out of the hill-country, and he was at their head.
The law maketh high priests of the weak; but the word of the promise, which is according to the law, giveth to the Son, in whom all good is for ever.
and all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
For he of whom these things are said shall come from another tribe, whereof no man hath ever offered at the altar.
When she looked out from the window, she cried, and the mother of Sisera cried out through the window, Why is his chariot so long in coming? when shall the noise of his wheels be heard?
For he slew the Philistines, and smote the Philistines; and Jehovah gave all Israel salvation: and ye saw it and were glad: why then hast thou sinned against him that hath not sinned, and seeking the death of David?
For when God sware unto Abraham, because there was no oath, he made it by himself:
And Benjamin returned, and they gave them the women whom they had kept from the women of Gilead; but they were not sufficient for them.
And they came up out of Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And they that were not caught by death were persecuted, and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
that he might be the Savior of all that come to God through him, because he is always alive to pray unto God for them.
Now the sons of Eli were evil and wicked men, having no knowledge of the Lord.
For we are the circumcision, who worship God and glory in Jesus Christ, and have no faith in the flesh:
And the wife of Gilead gave birth to sons; and when her sons were men, they sent them mad, saying, Ye have no part in the inheritance of our father's house; for thou art the son of another.
But if I walk in the flesh, if this is the fruit of my work, I perceive not what is convenient.
And David said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath heard tidings unto thy servant that it is Saul's purpose to go to Keilah, and to destroy the city for me.
and thou shalt cry because of thy king, whom thou hast taken for thyself: but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and put out the heart of Jehovah their God, and became servants unto Baal, and to Ashtaroth.
For God is my witness, how I love you all in the love of Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel saw the evil that they were in, that the people were troubled; and they took up their holes in the hills, and in the rocks, and in the rocks, and in the holes, and in holes, and in holes.
And he took two oxen, and cut them up, and sent them through all the land of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, If any man will not come after Saul and Samuel, this shall be done unto his cattle; and the fear of Jehovah came upon the people, and they came forth like one man.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to make war against the Canaanite in the hill-country, and in the south, and in the lowland.
And the Holy Spirit spake unto them, that the way into the sanctuary had not been opened, but the tabernacle was yet in;
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Do not return, take him in his bed, that I may kill him.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, We have returned unto thee; go with us, and make war against the children of Ammon, and we will make thee our head over all the people of Gilead.
And with the stamping of the horse, and of the stamping, and of the stamping of the horsemen.
And six hundred men turned back, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness, and dwelt upon the rock of Rimmon four months.
and Jehovah will give Israel up with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah will give up the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And it shall come to pass after a long time, that he saith in a certain day, that he saith in David, To-day, as he said before, behold, if thou wilt hear his voice, be not stiffnecked;
For if we keep the substance of the faith which we first, even until the end, we have a part with Christ;
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me and my men up to Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee.
And it came to pass, when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, saying, Thou hast said unto me, We will not do any more of this thing: we will have a king for our lord, when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
Now these are the gold of the Philistines, which the Philistines sent as a sin-offering to Jehovah: one for Ashdod, and Ashkelon, and Ashkelon, and one for Gath, one for Ekron;
And being certain of this, I know that I shall go and go with you all, for your increase and joy in the faith:
And David took of her hands from her hands; and he said unto her, Return to thy house in peace: behold, I have heard thy voice, and I have taken thy oblation.
( for they were priests without an oath; but he made a priest with an oath by him that saith of him, The Lord hath sworn, that he will not take back, that thou art a priest for ever.
But ye rejoice in the same way, and rejoice in my joy.
Ye rejoiced not in burnt offerings, Nor in offerings of sin.
I persecuted the assembly with bitter hatred; I kept all the righteousness of the law unto the last.
And the weight of the gold rings, which he took from them, was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, in addition to the jewels and jewels, and the purple garments which were upon the kings of Midian, and the chains upon their camels.
And Ehud stretched out his left hand, and took the sword from his right hand, and sent it into his bowels.
and my prayer is that thou mayest be multiplied in knowledge and knowledge,
And when they had gone aside from the house of Micah, the men of the house of Micah came together, and overtook the children of Dan.
For thou art also with child, and shalt bring forth a son, and his locks shall not be cut off; for the child is to be separated from his birth, and he shall take up the work of Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And God heard the voice of Adam; and the angel of God came to the woman again, when she sat in the field; but her husband was not with her.
And Samuel took a lamb, and offered it as a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel prayed unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
And I will not go out from before them, nor cast out before them any of the nations whither Joshua died in this land.
And as they were going up to the city, they saw young women going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And they said, Behold, every year there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is toward the north of Bethel, on the east side of the highway, which goeth up from Bethel to Shechem, and on the south side of the wall.
And it came to pass, at that time, the Philistines came together to fight against Israel; and the children of Israel went out to battle against the Philistines, and took up their position at the side of the valley; and the Philistines set themselves in Aphek.
Then rose up and wept over him, and said, Verily thou hast no love for me, but hate me; thou hast asked the children of my people, and hast not given me the answer. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not given the answer to my father or to my mother: am I to give it to thee?
And most of the brethren in the Lord, taking heart in my chain, are all the stronger to give the word of God without fear.
And Jehovah said, Go up, Judah; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And Abimelech was recompensed by God for the evil that he had done unto his father, and slew seventy brethren.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua, and these are the names of his daughters: the name of the elder was Michal, and the younger Michal.
Therefore, therefore, holy brethren, chosen to have a part in heaven, set upon him the high priest of our faith,
And it was right for this man to have more honor than Moses, even as the building of a house is greater than the house.
that every tongue may testify that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And Saul went down into the wilderness of Ziph, and took with him three thousand of the best men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Saul came up to Samuel in the gate of the city, and said, Give me directions, if thou be good, to the house of the prophet.
And Jonathan took off the robe that he had on, and gave it to David, and all his army with him, even to his sword, and for his bow, and for the girdle round about his flesh.
And every one that was in trouble, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was grieved in soul, came together to him, and he became captain over them: about four hundred men were joined unto him.
And Bela went down to Timnah, and his father and his mother, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and there came a young lion upon him.
For every one of them shall make an oath by the matter, and the contention shall be fulfilled by the law.
And Samuel did as Jehovah said, and came to Bethlehem: and the elders of the city came out to him in fear, and said, Dost thou come in peace?
Give ear now unto their voice; but let them reprove them, and show them the likeness of the king that shall be their prince.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and went forth from the city; and they smote the thirty men of Israel in the way of their journey; and they smote them in the way of Bethel, and the other to Gibeah, and in the field.
And the princes of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, took their places in the assembly of God, four hundred thousand footmen armed with the sword.
that ye may be holy and gentle, children of God without sin in a foolish and foolish generation, among whom ye are seen as light in the world,
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, and Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite; and the children of Israel sent an offering by him to Eglon, king of Moab.
For it is God, that is the cause of thy desire and of thy works, for his good pleasure.
And Michal the daughter of Saul was in love with David: and Saul spake of it and was glad.
And it came to pass, when he was sleeping, that she took the bands of his head into her garment, and set him with the girdle, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and arise, and rise up quickly; and he arose quickly, and rent himself, and rent himself.
And he set out, and the three hundred men that were with him, to the end of the camp, at the beginning of the midst, when the watchmen had only taken their place; and the trumpets were blown, and the vessels brake.
And Phinehas his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child, and near the time of her womb; and when she had heard that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, her pangs came upon her suddenly, and she gave birth.
And we say that in Abraham, even Levi, who hath a right to take the tenth part, gave it.
And the spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David made music for him.
Now it came to pass, that the prince of the city, when he heard that the son of Shelemiah had said, was wroth.
And the Philistines went up against the battle; and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man to his tent; and great was the slaughter, and slew of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And Saul, with Jonathan his son, and the people that were with them, lived in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the tents of the Philistines were at Michmash.
But the fig-tree said unto them, Am I to give up my sweet savor, and my good fruits, and cast out the trees?
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me with the son of Jesse, that hath given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired from Jehovah for him, and hast helped him to take up arms against me, and to be upon me as he hath done?
by knowledge of the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming time,
And they sent for Zebulun and Naphtali to come to Kedesh; and there went up ten thousand men after him; and Deborah went up with him.
Now when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard of it, and were afraid.
And I beseech thee, that there be a helper in my work, to see the needs of these women that ministered unto me in the good tidings, and the rest of my brethren, whose names are in the book of life.
But the chariots went after the chariots, and the people unto the descent of the nations; and all the people of Sisera were put to the sword, and there was not a man left.
The punishment of Jehovah is upon Jonathan, if it please my father to do you evil, and I do not give thee word, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and the Lord be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And they stoned them with stones, and they were cut up with knives; and they were slain with the sword, and they went about rams' skins, and upon the skin of badgers; and they were poor, and in pain, and in pain.
And there was great fear in the camp, and in the field, and among all the men of the armed forces; and the earth trembled, and the earth trembled; and there was a fear of God.
For Christ entered not into a holy place, which was made by men's hands, as the witness of the true one; but he went into heaven, and now standeth before God for us.
Now when Saul had taken his place as the prince of Israel, he made war against them that were against him on every side, Moab, and the children of Ammon, and the king of Syria, and the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines; and such as he went, he smote them.
Salute them that are princes over you, and to all the saints; for they that are in Italy send ye their love.
Now when Saul's brethren saw him among the band of prophets, the people said one to another, What is Saul, the son of Kish? Is he even Saul among the prophets?
And Deborah, a prophetess, a prophetess, was the judge of Israel at that time.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was first upon him in Arnon; and the name of Jehovah was Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul there that day stood before Jehovah; and his name was called of Edom, the mighty men of Saul's messengers.
And Saul went in fear of David: for Jehovah was with David, and departed from thence.
So they went on their way, and put the little ones, and the oxen, and the spoil before them.
And they sent messengers to the people that dwelt in Kiriath Jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent again the ark of Jehovah, and come and take it to thy land.
Now the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites:
And he took the inwards with the fat tail, and put it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the portion which hath been kept for you: take it as your portion of the feast; for it hath been kept for you till the time of the present, and until the guests were present. So that day Saul took bread with Samuel.
For I beseech you, even more, I pray you, in the hope of my coming unto you.
And he turned aside from him to one of the people, and said the same words: and the people answered him.
And because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body himself, and became like them, that by his death he might put an end to him that had the power of death, that should say, The Evil One.
seeing that we give them our daughters as wives? for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
but they preach Christ in a spirit of spirit, not from their own heart, but with the purpose of giving me sorrow in my prison.
And the man of thy house shall not be cut off by my hand, and his eyes shall be darkened, and sorrow shall be in his heart; and all the seed of thy house shall perish by the sword of men.
And they sat themselves, and drink, and drink, and the damsel's father said unto the man, If it is thy pleasure, take thy rest here this night, and let thy heart be glad.
And it came to pass about a month after this, that Nahash the Ammonite came up, and set himself in array against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will be thy servants.
But as for me, I will not walk contrary unto you; but I will teach you the good and the right way.
But go, and do good, and give to others; for it is well-pleasing in God.
And he said unto him, If I have found grace in thine eyes, give me a sign which thou sayest unto me.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up first to make war for us against the Canaanite?
And the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he delivered them into the hand of them that took possession of their substance, and into the hand of their enemies round about them, that they should give way before them.
And a man of God came to him, and said unto him, The Lord saith, Did I let myself be seen of thy father's people when they were in Egypt, and servants in Pharaoh's house?
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you before many, that I may be comforted, when I hear you.
I will praise my God in all memory of thee,
Let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: If it be Jehovah that provoketh you against me, let him take an offering; but if it be the children of men, let them be accursed before Jehovah, because he hath driven me out to-day, and hath kept me from my place in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, be thou the servant of other gods.
And she fell at his feet, and said, Suffer me the wrong, my lord: let thy servant speak unto thee, and hear the words of thy servant.
But if thou canst not answer me, then thou shalt give me thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of apparel. And they said unto him, Make haste, and let us see what it is.
And Jehovah sent to destroy Baal, and Imonai, and Jinam, and Samuel, and took thee out of the hand of them that were fighting against thee, and made thee safe.
And the Philistines heard the noise of their cry, and said, What is this great cry among the Hebrews? and it was clear unto them that the ark of Jehovah had come unto the camp.
But I rejoice greatly in the Lord, that thy visitation is come to life, and thou hast visited me, and hast not attained unto it.
And thou shalt say unto God, Thou shalt not be angry with me, if I say this: Let me make a difference with the wool, and let the wool be dried up, and the earth be covered with dew.
And Hobab the Jebusite, Moses' father-in-law, had come up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Arad; and he went and dwelt among the Amalekites.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon the rock over thence, and pour out the pottage over them. And he did so.
And Saul stood in the uttermost part of Geba, and passed through Migron; and there were about him six hundred men with him.
But now at the end of these days hath it come to us through his Son, to whom he hath given all things for a heritage, and through whom he made the order of the ages:
For every one that taketh milk is without the word of righteousness; he is a child.
and let us run one another at all times to love and good works.
And it came to pass, when they were near Jebus, that the day was far away; and the servant said unto his master, Let us go out of the way of the Jebusites, and take our rest there.
And he said, Behold, I come to do thy pleasure: he took away the old order, that he might put the new order in its place.
So they sent and gathered together all the rulers of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to its place, that it may not be the cause of death to us and our people: for there was a great fear throughout all the city: and the hand of God was very hard upon them there.
For by the law of God death cometh to men once, and after that they are judged.
So the law that went before is laid on one side, because it was weak and without profit.
And to the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, the hearers that were asking that not a word should be said unto them,
and forgive the sin of thy servant; for Jehovah will surely make thy house strong, because my lord is fighting in the battle of Jehovah; and no evil shall be seen in thee all thy days.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make a king for them. Then Samuel said unto the children of Israel, Let every man return to his own city.
Take not thy servant to be a man of Belial: For my words have come forth from my affliction, and my travail.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the nobles of the Philistines were there; and there were three thousand men, and women on the roof, looking at the head, and were mocked.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, By the living Jehovah shall not visit thee for this.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron, and the ark of God came to Ekron, saying, They have sent the ark of the God of Israel unto us for the destruction of us and our people.
And he gathered the children of Ammon and Amalek; and they went and smote Israel, and took palm trees.
And he built an altar unto Jehovah, and called it the name Jehovah. And it was unto this day, in the place of the house of the Rechabites.
And they gave him part of a cake of figs, and some dry grapes; and after the meat, his spirit returned to him; for he had neither bread nor thirst for three days and for three nights.
And they brought the ark of God into the house of Dagon, and put it by the side of Dagon.
And Jehovah sent sudden fear upon Benjamin before Israel; and that day the children of Israel slew five hundred and five thousand, one hundred men of Benjamin, every one that drew a sword.
And it came to pass in the day of the battle at Michmash, that there was no sword, nor a spear in the hand of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan: only Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
Now it came to pass at that time, that Samuel knew not the Lord; and the word of Jehovah came not unto him.
And he said unto her, If they put all my cords together, I will be as one man.
But he would not, saying, I have no desire for bread; but his servants, and the woman, made him eat, and he gave them food; and he rose up from the earth, and sat upon his bed.
And the Philistines set up their forces against Israel; and the battle was hard; and Israel prevailed against the Philistines, and smote them four thousand in the field.
And David passed over to the other side, and took his place on the top of a mountain afar off, and a space between them.
And it is expedient for you to be teachers, but ye have need of one to teach, and to teach the uncircumcision, and to drink milk, and not of solid food.
and there shall be nothing that cometh out of the vine for her bread; and she shall not drink wine or strong drink, or any thing that is unclean; and she shall be careful to do all that I have commanded her.
And it was so: for he rose early in the morning, and made the wool in his hands, and fetched a bowl of water from the dew upon the wool.
But he fled; and they went after him, and caught him, and bare his hands, and his great toes, and his great toes.
And Midian was stronger than Israel; and the children of Israel made booths for themselves in the mountains, and in the rocks, and in the rocks.
And it shall come to pass, when he saith, He hath made a new covenant, and hath made the first covenant; but that which is long, and that which is past, shall be no more seen.
For this cause, as we walk by so great a cloud of witnesses, putting off every weight, and the sin into which we come, let us run in the way which is marked for us,
And the people rose early in the morning, and made an altar there, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings.
and I will go and take my place by my father's presence in the field where thou art; and I will speak with thee with my father; and when I see what is, I will give thee word.
And David said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, Who shall go down with me to the tents of Saul? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
In times past the word of God came unto our fathers through the prophets, in different parts and in divers ways,
And the Levite said that he would dwell with the man, and he became unto him as one of his sons.
For this cause let us go on from the beginning of the Christ to abound, not to build again that which is of corruptible works, and faith in God.
Brethren, it is clear unto me that I come not to that knowledge; but one thing I do, that I should go the things which are past, and tell the things which are before,
And the words, even more, make it clear that there shall be some things which are shaken, as of things that are made, that there may be only those things which are not shaken.
And thou shalt say unto them, I will not be prince over you, neither shall my son be prince over thee: for Jehovah shall be ruler over you.
And he went out, and contended with Sisera, and said unto him, Come, and I will let you see the man whom thou seekest. And he came into her tent, and saw, and Sisera was slain with the nails of his head.
and Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the brother of Shua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, which had the ephod; and they knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And Moses hid himself in his father three months after his birth, because they saw that he was a fair child: and they feared not the king's commandment.
And let them that are all their souls be bound in chains, because of the fear of death.
And go not from the right way unto the idols of idols, wherein there is no profit, and no salvation; for they are false.
And the men of Israel turned about, and the men of Benjamin were afraid: for they saw that the evil had come upon them.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, ye shall not send it without an offering, but ye shall send him a sin-offering with it: then thou shalt have peace again, and it shall be clear unto you why the weight of his hand is not taken away from thee.
Are they not able, are they not divided among them? a young maid, or two unto every man, and to Sisera of the broidered work, and to Sisera of fine colours, upon this side, and upon that, for the neck of the queen?
And it came to pass, when they had taken it away, that the hand of Jehovah was stretched out upon the city for his destruction; and the plague was upon all the men of the city, small and great.
And Joshua died, the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, a hundred and ten years old.
And Saul returned, and followed the Philistines no more: and the Philistines returned to their place.
and that it was better to suffer pain with the saints, than for a little while to have a taste of the pleasures of sin.
And David said unto Abiathar, I was certain that day, when the Edomites were there, that he would bring tidings to Saul; for I am the burden of all thy father's house.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Spirit of God came upon Saul with great force, and he was like a prophet among the men of his house; and David made music for him, as he did day by day: and Saul held his spear in his hand.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, And his ministers flames of fire:
And it shall come to pass, that if they had kept the land from which they went out, they would have repented.
She also desired for water, and gave him milk; And she brought butter before him upon his face.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines had journeyed, and came near to David; and David hasted quickly to flee in the way of the army; and they came to meet the Philistines.
So the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And it came to pass after this, that he was filled with water, and cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast delivered this great salvation by the hand of thy servant, and I have no need of water; and I will be delivered into the hands of this people that are uncircumcised.
And Saul took the spear in his hand, and said, I will cause David to blow him up to the wall. And David departed from him double.
Then rose up from Gilgal, and the rest of the people went up after Saul against the men of war, and they came from Gilgal to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin; and Saul took the number of the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Behold, I say, that thy house and thy fathers's people have stood before me for ever; but now the Lord saith, Let it not be so: I will give glory to those by whom I am glorified, and they that fear me shall be precious in mine eyes.
Be not stubborn, as in the day that ye provoked me, On the day of testing in the wilderness,
Now while these things were in the beginning, the priests came into the first tent at all times, and prayed and the offering.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee: let all thy need be mine; only take not thy rest in the street.
And the Philistines said, I have put to shame the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
And we will take ten men out of every hundred, throughout all the tribes of Israel, a hundred thousand out of every thousand, a thousand out of every thousand, to get bread for the people, that they may give to the children of Benjamin the right punishment for the work of their shame which they have done in Israel.
And his master said unto him, We will not go out of our way into a strange city, whose people are not of the children of Israel: but we will go on unto Gibeah.
And Jehovah was seen in Shiloh, for Jehovah spake unto Samuel in Shiloh, the revelation of his word.
And this hope is like a strong girdle for our souls, fixed and certain, and going in unto that which is within the veil;
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said; and he took the land of the three sons of Anak, and drove them out thence.
If only I had power over this people, and I would appoint Abimelech out of the way, and say unto him, Make thy army strong, and come forth.
Now this is my purpose to make known unto you, brethren, that the cause of the gospel hath been wrought in my sufferings.
And it came to pass, when the time came to pass, that she conceived, and bare a son; and she called his name Samuel: for she said, I pray unto Jehovah for him.
And they made him a two-edged sword, a cubit long; and he put on his right hand under his robe.
And it came to pass, when the day came to pass, that the woman came, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where she was laid, until it was light.
who were left with him, that he should send a stone upon a head without error.
Thou, Jehovah, didst set the earth upon his foundation, And the heavens are the works of thy hands:
And she said unto him, Why sayest thou art my beloved, when thy heart is not mine? Three times thou hast mocked me, and hast not made me known the mystery of thy great strength.
and he said, Our kindred have made an oblation in the city, and my brethren have commanded me to be there. Now therefore, if I have found grace in your eyes, let me go and see my brethren: therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.
And Saul said unto the servant that had the charge of his hand, Take thy sword, and put it through me, before these uncircumcised men come, and make sport of me. But his servant, trembling, would not do so. Then Saul took his sword, and fell upon it, and slew himself.
and that he sent his only begotten Son into the world, saying, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And he cried to his servants, and said unto him, Take thy sword, and destroy me, that they may not speak of me, that they may not say of me, his death was the work of a woman: and the young man put his sword through him, and slew him.
Then came Jehovah, and said before, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel answered, and said, Lord, for the ears of thy servant are open.
And if he said unto him, First let the fat be burned, then take it as much as thou shalt. And he said, Nay, thou shalt give it to me now, lest I take it by force.
that ye may not be slow in heart, but take as your example those to whom God hath given their inheritance, because of their faith and their long wait.
And Saul went to the house of Gibeah, to his house; and with him went the men of war, whose heart had touched him.
But when Jesus had made a sin-offering for ever, he took his place at the right hand of God;
And when Saul saw David coming out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner, whose son is this young man, whose son is this young? And Abner said, I have no idea.
And she said, The glory is gone out of Israel: for the ark of God is taken.
And they let the Philistines see the two of them; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they have taken cover.
And Shammah the son cried unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, do me now now in mind, and make me strong only this once, O God, that I may recover from the Philistines for my two eyes.
And David took his wife Ahinoam of Jezreel, to be his wife: these two were his wives.
And the elders of the congregation said, What are we to do with wives for the rest of them, seeing that the daughters of Benjamin are dead?
And every priest shall take his place in the day of the altar by day, and the priest shall do what is necessary, and shall make again the same sacrifices, and again the priest's sin.
And the battle prevailed against Saul; and the archers came upon him, and he was wounded by the archers.
And it came to pass, that he said unto Shammah the son, Arise, I pray thee, to thee that thou hast mocked me, saying, How wilt thou put thyself in bonds? And he said unto her, If thou take the seven parts of my hair, and gird thyself with the girdle, I will faint, and be like one other man.
that he should be made like his brethren in every way, that he might be a high priest full of mercy, and faith in all things that pertain to God, making offerings for the sins of the people.
For if the first covenant had been as good, there was no place for the second.
And David's servants said unto him, Now is the time when Jehovah saith unto thee, I will give thine enemy into thine hands to do with him what seemeth good to thee. And David arose, and took the hem of Saul's garment in his hand, and cut off the edge of it without knowledge.
For he said in one place of the seventh day, and God rested from all his works on the seventh day.
And David said to Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me, and said unto me, Thus hath the king commanded me, saying, Do nothing to any man of the business which I send thee, and the charge which I have commanded thee: and there is a place appointed for the young men to go.
I have done no wrong against thee, but thou hast dealt treacherously with me: Jehovah, who judgest this day, judge between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And Naphtali took not the land of the people of the people of Beth-shemesh, nor of Bethath, and drove them out; but he dwelt among the Canaanite in the land; but the people of Bethshemesh and of Beth Horon were put to forced labor.
But in a very little time he that cometh shall come, and shall not be slow.
And Jehoash said unto all those that fight against him, Shall ye take up the sentence of Baal? shall ye deliver him? and let him that taketh up his cause be put to death while it is yet the morning: if he be a god, let him take up his cause, because of the breaking down of his altar.
And his father-in-law, the father of the damsel, kept him there three days: and they had food and drink, and took their rest there.
For they had weapons of iron, and with axes, and with axes, and with axes, and with harrows of iron.
And David gave his portion into the hand of the keeper of the guard, and ran to the host, and came to his brethren to know them.
And Saul and the men of Israel came together, and rose up, and set themselves in the valley of Elah, and encamped against the Philistines.
For there are those that hate the cross of Christ, whom I have given to you.
Remember ye that were over you, and who gave you the word of God; and seeing the end of their way, let your faith be as theirs.
and we smote the south part of the land of the Philistines, and the land of Judah, and the south of Caleb; and we put fire on the south.
And all the seven days of the feast she wept upon him; and on the seventh day he gave her the answer, because she gave him no peace; and she sent word unto the children of her people.
For the counsel of Israel, that they might know whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had given to their fathers by Moses.
and ye have knowledge, as well as the former things, that when I went away from Macedonia, there was no assembly with me in the business of the saints, but ye only.
Christ also took not himself the glory of the high priest, but was given it by him that said, Thou art my Son, this day I have given thee.
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him with power, and with power, and with a strong hand, and he smote the lion in two, and slew him; but he said nothing to his father and to his mother.
For if the word which came through the angels was fulfilled, and all the wicked transgressed against God's commandment,
Now therefore give thought to what thou shalt do; for evil is in store for our lord, and for all his house: for he is a man of Belial, that it can not speak unto him.
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his wife, and sent her out unto them; and they took her by force, by reason of her accord all night till the morning: and when the morning had come, they let her go.
And it came to pass, when she was come down under the mountain upon her ass, that David and his men came down against her, and she came face to face with them.
And the Philistines came nigh every morning and evening forty days.
Let us go forth unto him without the circle of the camp, And take his shame upon ourselves.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, went in flight, and were afraid.
And the man, and Elkanah, with all his household, went up to make the oblation to Jehovah, and to fulfill his oath.
And it came to pass all that day, that Abimelech fought against the city; and he took it, and slew the people that were therein, and had the city rent, and covered with salt.
And the Philistines came nearer to David; and the man that had his shields went before him.
And when David came again after the destruction of the Philistines, Abner took him to Saul, with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
I have all things, and more than enough: I am full of the measure of my heart, and of the sweet smell of sweet savor, a sweet savour, a sweet savour unto God.
And they sent messengers to the city of Saul; and they told the people, and all the people wept.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man? for he hath come out to put shame upon Israel: and it is certain that if any man shall overcome him, the king will give that man great substance, and give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And they which were at one time saw the light, eating the good things from heaven, and having their part in the Holy Spirit,
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he began to judge Israel, and went out to war; and Jehovah gave up the Ethiopians, the king of Syria, into his hand, and smote him.
Now therefore let it be given out unto the people that tremble with fear, to depart from mount Perazim; and twenty thousand of the people went, and were yet ten thousand.
and he took them into his house, and gave the asses bread; and he washed their feet, and they drank.
Then the princes went down to the gate; The assembly of Jehovah went down among the mighty ones.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do all that pleaseth thee, but not until thou hast taken him from the breast; but Jehovah do as he hath said. And the woman stood there, and gave her the milk, until he was old enough to be taken from the breast.
So David rose up, and went, and slew two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their clothes, and gave them to the king, that he might be the son-in-law of the king; and Saul gave him Michal his daughter.
But Samuel was not pleased when they said unto him, Give us a king to be our judge. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and took his place in the valley secretly.
And Micah said, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, that the Levites are become my priest.
For the prayer of Jehovah came from her heart, and though her lips were moved from her lips, so it was to say that she was overcome with wine.
And it came to pass, as he talked with them, that the man of war, the Philistines of Gath, came out of the midst of the Philistines, and said the same words, as David heard.
Be glad in Jehovah at all times; I say, Be glad.
And the husband of her husband said unto her, Why art thou weeping? and why do thou take no bread? why is thy heart troubled? am I not more to thee than ten sons?
And the woman came in, and said unto her husband, Behold, a man came unto me, and his form was as the likeness of a god; and I did not ask him where he came from, and he gave me not his name.
And he took Edom, and the king of Amalek, and the king of the captivity, and slew all the people with the edge of the sword.
that I might have knowledge of him, and of the power of his coming from the dead, and a part with him in his pain, as in his death.
Do all things without strife and contention;
And a man of the hill-country of Ephraim called Micah.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did as pleased him.
and to those that were in Hormah, and in addition, and in addition to all that were in them,
If it go through the land of Israel to Beth Shemesh, then this great evil is his work: but if not, then we may know that the evil is not his doing, but the work.
And there was a great priest over the house of God.
And Abigail went to the pit of Nabal; and he mourned in his house like a king; and the heart of Nabal was glad, for he had taken much wine; and she said nothing unto him till the day of the dawn.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us go to one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah or Ramah.
For the rest, my brethren, be glad in the Lord: for there is no evil in you, but in your salvation.
And the Philistines feared, and said, God is come into their tents. And they said, Woe is ours! for not before hath such a thing been seen.
And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah; and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And they rose early in the morning, and stood before Jehovah, and returned to Ramah, to their house; and Elkanah begat his wife: and Jehovah remembered her.
So David and the six hundred men that were with him went over to Urijah the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
And after him was mocked, the son of Jephunneh, who smote six hundred Philistine Philistines with the oxen; and he was the saviour of Israel.
For when the people were numbered, there was not a man of the children of Jabeshgilead.
By the faith Rahab, the harlot, was not slain with them that transgressed the commandments of God; for she had taken her house in peace to see the land.
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and took their cattle, and put them to the sword with great destruction. And David was the saviour of the people of Keilah.
And one of the servants answered, and said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the keeper of Bethlehem, a mighty man, and a mighty man, and a man of war; and he is wise in his words, and pleasant in his sight, and Jehovah is with him.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, and let my enemy go and escape? And Michal said unto Saul, Let me go, lest I kill thee.
And they said, Nay, but we will take thee up, and deliver thee into their hands, but we will not put thee to death: and thou shalt take hold of two cords round about him, and they shall take him up out of the rock.
And he waited there from that time, till all that are against him are made a footstool for his feet.
And the land of Midian was broken before the children of Israel, and the children of Midian: and the land was quiet forty years in the days of Benjamin.
And he went in, and prepared a kid of the goats, and an ephah of flour, and made unleavened cakes; and he put the meat in the basket, and the pottage in which it was boiled; and he brought it out unto him under the oak, and gave it unto him.
And Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that was with him, The young man that was with him, Come, let us go over to the Philistines; but he said nothing to his father.
And he put in the pot, and all that went up into the basket, and the priest took for himself; and they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
And he took the offering unto Eglon, and the king of Moab was very fat.
Now therefore take heed to yourselves that neither wine nor strong drink, neither take any unclean thing for food;
And he sent for David, and said unto him, By the living Lord, thou art perfect, and all that thou hast done with me in the army: I have seen no evil in thee from the day that ye came unto me until now; but still, the lords are not pleased with thee.
And Saul sent for all the people to go to the battle, and went down to Keilah to fight David and his men.
And his foot was at Ramah, where his house was; there he was judge of Israel, and there he made an altar to Jehovah.
Behold, ye are all, ye children of Israel; render now your counsel.
And when they had made an offering of the ox, they took the child to him.
And she said, Let thy servant have grace in thine sight. So the woman went away, and took part in the feast, and her face was no more sad.
And thou shalt say unto my brother, Peace be unto thee: peace be to thee, and to thy house, and to all that thou hast.
For those of us that believe come into his place; as he hath said, as I have spoken in my wrath, they shall not come into my rest, though the works were done since the days of the world.
Behold that ye hear his voice that cometh unto you: for if they have shut up the voice that came to them on the earth, shall not be loosed, what shall we suffer if we should not hear the voice of the heaven?
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house; and the child was the servant of Jehovah under the hand of Heli the priest.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for his inheritance; but he could not make the valley go out, for they had chariots of iron.
And now I know that thou shalt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established under thy hand.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon you with power, and ye shall be as a prophet with them, and shall be turned into another man.
Behold, I am: give witness against me before Jehovah, and before the man that hath anointed the holy oil: whose ox or ass have I taken? to whom have I been faithless? who hath been beaten down by me? from whose hand have I taken it? I will give it all to thee.
And he said, In peace I have come to make an offering unto Jehovah: make yourselves clean, and come with me to make the offering. And he made Jesse and his sons clean, and sent for them to be present in the offering.
For his heart was with you all; and he was greatly troubled, because ye heard that he was sick.
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan, and said with an oath, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
And the children of Israel rose up, and wept, and went after the Philistines to Gath, and to the gate of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines fell by the way of Gath and Ekron.
And all the trees said unto the thorns, Thou comest and be king over us.
And there was a certain stature of the family of the children of Dan, and his name was Adam, and his wife bare no child.
And it came to pass, that smote the seventy sons of Jerubbesheth, and for their blood, that they might come to Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, who helped him to slay his brethren.
And when their fathers and their brethren come and cause trouble, then thou shalt say unto them, Give us to us as an inheritance of grace; for we took them not as wives for ourselves; and if ye had given them unto us, ye would bear the oath.
And Japhlet went over to the children of Ammon, to make war upon them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
And Saul and his men went on one side of the mount, and David and his men went on the other side; and David's counsel was to flee quickly, because Saul was afraid of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men, that they might take them.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not go with thee: for thou hast put away from thee the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah hath put thee out from thy place as king over Israel.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, and arise; and he awoke from his sleep, and said, I will go out as at once; but he knew not that Jehovah had left him.
praying for us; for we know that our hearts are in the heart of sin, and the way of life in all things.
who in the days of his flesh, having sent up prayers, and supplications, and crying unto him that was able to deliver him from death, heard his prayer in the fear of God.
But they have dealt well with us; they have done us no wrong, and we have not been touched with them in the field.
And it came to pass, that the Edomites, which were by the side of Saul's servants, answered, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And he shall take thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, and all the best of them, and give them to his servants.
The bow of the mighty are broken, And the feeble are clothed with strength.
And Adam said, Now when thy words come true, what shall be the heir to the child, and what shall be his work?
And Samuel said unto all the people, Do ye see the calling of Jehovah, how there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, saying, Long life unto the king!
As they have done from the beginning, from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt unto this day, and turned away from me, and worship other gods, so they do so to you.
by faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, made ready for the salvation of his seed, because God had given him the tidings of things which were not seen at the time, and the world was judged by him, and he obtained his inheritance the righteousness that is by faith.
If he is able to fight with me, and prevailed against me, then we will be thy servants; but if I be able to overcome him, then thou shalt be our servants, and work for us.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of thy kindred, or of all my people, that thou hast gone for thy wife unto the Philistines, who are uncircumcised? But the son said unto his father, Get her for me, for she is pleasant unto me.
