But this man, after he had offered a sacrifice for sins for ever, sat upon the right hand of God:
If one trespass against another, the judge shall judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? But they did not hearken unto the voice of their father; for Jehovah would slay them.
And David recovered all that Amalek had taken away; and David took his two wives.
But the lad knew not any thing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
making you perfect in every good work, to do his will, working in you that is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And David repaired the son of Joash from the battle before the sun.
and to them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David himself was, and all his men were wont to camp.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
I thank my God for all remembrance of you,
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and spake unto them in the ears of Jehovah.
And Ehud went forth through the porch, and shut the doors of our face, and shut them.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do that which pleaseth thee. Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.
For the covenant of men is dead; otherwise there is no strength in all the days of the living.
The mother of Sisera looked out at the window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why are the wheels of his chariots?
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
And the hoofs of the hoofs of war were broken by the noise of the trumpet.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being an hundred and ten years old.
Wherefore ye make a molten image for yourselves, and molten images of your abominations, that destroy the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
And now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not; neither was there missing unto them, all the days that they were in Carmel.
And it was so, that, when he had departed from Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all these signs came to pass that day.
Wherefore in all things ought him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish answered, and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? Now therefore consider what ye have to do.
But now they desire a good country, that is, the heavenly, that God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city.
And Jehovah had spoken unto Samuel in his ears a day before Saul came, saying,
Whose end is destruction, Whose God is their belly; And whose glory is in their shame, Who have thought of earthly things.
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wives, which they had saved alive of the women of Gilead: and yet they did not feed them.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Abide not in the hold, depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Haran.
And Jehoash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye plead for Baal? shall ye deliver him? he that shall plead for him, let him be put to death while it is yet the morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself, because he hath cast down his altar.
And after him was Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox, and he delivered Israel.
And this I pray, that thy love may abound more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, when thou didst go forth out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, and the skies drop water.
For verily he did not take upon him the flesh of angels: but he took upon him the seed of Abraham.
For then he often suffered from the foundation of the world: but now, at the end of the world he was manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that was the second day of the month, that the place of David was desolate; and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why is not the son of Jesse to eat, neither yesterday, nor to day?
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go forth into the field; and they went out both of them into the field.
And the five men that went to search the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood in the entering of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
And they possessed all the coasts of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto the river Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
Now therefore go, and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay man and woman, the suckling and the suckling, the ox and the sheep, the camel and the ass.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth, and fastened his body unto the wall of Bethshan.
And they told Sisera, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, unto mount Tabor.
And he shall appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties, and will set them to hear his ground, and to gather his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and his chariots.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, stood in the ephod: and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thine hand, that thou mayest do unto him as it pleaseth thee. Then David arose, and cut off the hem of Saul's garment secretly.
And the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet pleasure, and my good fruit, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And they sat down, and did eat and drink, and drink them together: for the father's father had said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thine heart be merry.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard it, and were afraid of the Philistines.
And save them that fear death, All their days under bondage.
And the woman hasted, and ran and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me that came unto me the second day.
And they turned aside, and came to the house of the young man the Levites, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
For the law made nothing perfect; but the gift of a better hope wrought, by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And they passed and went their way; and the sun went down upon them at Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou didst thresh westward in the valley of God, behold, it is bound in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take it, take it: for there is no other save it. And David said, There is none like that. Give it me.
So David rose up early in the morning to return into the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Then Saul came to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the prophet is.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and day, as we were with them keeping the sheep.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
And now are thou nothing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he fight against Israel, or did he fight against them?
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh, and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
But if ye will not obey the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
Now David was the son of the Ephrathah of Beth-lehem of Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he ministered with me in the glad tidings.
And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, Upon this condition will I make a covenant with you, that I may put out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
And Jair rose up from Gilead, and judged Israel twenty and two years.
For we have not a high priest, which can not be touched with the hardness of our infirmities; but in all points were in all points as we are, yet without sin.
And David rose up afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king: and when Saul looked behind him, David bowed himself with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
And he had thirty sons that rode upon thirty asses, and they had thirty cities, which are called Jair, unto this day, which is in the land of Gilead.
And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she pleased the well.
Then came down his brethren, and all the house of his father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zareah, and Sareah in the sepulchre of man his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will find ourselves unto them.
And Jacob blessed the sons of Joseph, and worshipped him, and fell upon the top of his staff.
And Shammah the son took the two pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a Levite in the hill-country of Ephraim, who took to him a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem in Judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan answered him, and said, I have eaten a little honey with the edge of the staff that was in mine hand, and behold, I die.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed from the tribe of Benjamin that day twenty and five thousand men; all these drew the sword.
And Saul cast a spear at him to smite him: and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to slay David.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they have escaped not who spake on earth, much more shall we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven.
Moreover the Lord will deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah will deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a forest.
And it came to pass at that time, when it was laid down in his place, and his eyes became dim, that he could not see;
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they slew the Canaanites that dwelt therein, and utterly destroyed it: and the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah; and he built the first altar that he built unto Jehovah.
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And they answered and said, I saw the Edomites that were over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah again; come down, and bring it up unto you.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
And the strength of Israel shall not lie nor repent: for he is not a man, that he should repent.
But we will not give them wives of our daughters; for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went up against the Philistines; and they called that place Bethesda.
For if the first covenant had been without blemish, then let no place be sought for the second.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and changed their garments, and changed their garments to them, and his anger was kindled, and went up to his father's house.
And they were many priests, because they had not suffered for the death of death.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he drove out the inhabitants of the mount, but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who hath delivered you out of all your troubles and your afflictions; and ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And the stork gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye are men of Gilead, among the children of Ephraim, and among the Manassites.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went forth into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
And he took a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him; and he wrote unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, threescore and seventeen men.
And it came to pass, when they had carried it, that the hand of Jehovah was upon the city with a very great destruction; and he smote the men of the city, small and great, and they went forth in their secret parts.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you.
and see, if it go up by the way of his own sea to Beth Shemesh, then he hath done us great evil: but if not, then shall we know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a lot that befell us.
And Samuel took a bottle of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and stamped the grapes, and made merry; and went into the house of their god, and ate and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And he made him that remaineth over the nobles among the people: Jehovah hath made me lord over the mighty.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest hot men run upon thee, and thou shalt lose thy life with the life of thy house.
having tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins; and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.
What then? Yea, every way, whether it be, or in truth, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thine heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their old age.
For if he were on the earth, he should not be priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And it shall come to pass, that every man that is left in thy house shall come and bow unto him for a piece of silver, and a piece of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests' posts, that I may eat a piece of bread.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And Abimelech shewed David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
But, beloved, we are persuaded good things of you, and things that go with salvation, though we speak.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do unto the ark of Jehovah? tell us, wherewith we shall send it to his place.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, that he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards out of the land: why then lay thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
But Hananiah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the people and the princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the labour of love, which ye have shewn toward his name, in that ye ministered unto the saints, and minister.
They fought from heaven; The stars in their courses fought against Sisera.
And they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried to Gath; and they carry the ark of the God of Israel about there.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel: we will pass over unto Gibeah.
Therefore now return, and go in peace, that thou mayest not be displeased with the lords of the Philistines.
And he built an altar there unto Jehovah, and called it the Lord Jehovah: unto this day it is in the midst of the house of Abihail.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Haste, haste, tarry not: and Jonathan's son gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
For we are partakers of Christ, if we hold the foundation of our confidence unto the end.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give ye bread of bread unto the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I pursue after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
For he lusted after you all, and was filled with heaviness, because that ye had heard that he was sick.
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was red, and the appearance of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look to. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him: for this is he.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel answered, for thy servant heard.
who hope we have the measure of the soul, perfect and faithful, and that entereth into that place within the veil;
Yea, I will put my trust in him; and again, behold, I and the children that God hath given me.
And Saul tarried in the uttermost parts of Gibeah, under a pomegranate; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
But ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you, my son, my son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint, when thou art reproved by him:
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, which Abimelech made for vain and for light, who followed him.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray thee, how my eyes are light, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
And over the sons of his father he took place, threescore and ten; for he had many wives.
But exhort one another day, while it is called to day; lest any of you be made stubborn through the deceit of sin.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Jonathan, that he may mock us; and they called for Jonathan the son of the prison; and he made them to mock; and they set him between the pillars.
And the son of Ebedmelech said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; for why should we serve him?
Do not count thine handmaid for a woman of Belial: For out of the abundance of my complaint and vexation have I spoken hitherto.
And Shammah the son, and his father and his mother went to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah: and, behold, a young lion roared against him.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanite; and I will go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.
Why then didst thou not obey the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly upon the spoil, and did evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Weep not to Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they took two chief princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb in the rock of Oreb, and like Zeeb, and pursued Midian, and went after Midian; and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to the Jordan on the other side of the Jordan.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my wine, which speak God and man, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, the woman's concubine was fallen at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the door.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatever seemeth good unto thee: deliver us only, we pray thee this day.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak friendly unto her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house. And when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart was greatly troubled.
and carry these ten sticks unto the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren go, and take their pledge.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good. And are ye still still? be not slothful to go to possess the land.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot; for Saul and Jonathan were taken, but the people escaped.
And the second, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivite, that dwelt in Lebanon, from mount Hermon unto the entering in of Hamath.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with a prey, even Ashdod, and the borders thereof.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thine house.
And God brought back the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, to slay his brethren seventy.
And after him was Abdon the son of Dodo, a Pirathonite, and he judged Israel.
And they turned and went, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the chariot before them.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring ye the portion which I have given thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it beside thee.
And the children of Benjamin were eighteen thousand men; all these were valiant men.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped by a fountain that is in Jezreel.
And when David heard that he was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath avenged the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for Jehovah hath brought back the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to wife.
And they found among the inhabitants of Gilead four hundred young virgins, who had known no man by lying with any male; and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And it came to pass afterward, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the hem of Saul.
And it came to pass after Abimelech, that there was a defence for Israel, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar: and he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, and did not utterly cast them out.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
And Shammah said unto her, If they bind me with seven green things that are not dried up, then shall I be weak, and be like another man.
which was a figure for the present time, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the work perfect, as pertaining to the conscience;
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and set themselves in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people were come out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house: for my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
But if I say thus unto the young man, behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way: for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
Ask thy young men, and they will show thee; wherefore let the young men find favour in thine eyes; for we come in a good day: give, give, I pray thee, everything that cometh to thy servants, and to thy son David.
And when we had gone, Jesus made a high priest for ever after the commandment of Malchijah.
And Malchijah was yet in the loins of his father, and Malchijah met him.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit of God is troubled thee.
For the carcase of these beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest, shall be burned without the camp.
Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
yet there is straw and provender for our asses; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man that is with thy servants; there is no pleasure in any thing.
By faith the harlot did not perish with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
And the land rested forty years: and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
In burnt-offering and sacrifices thou hast no pleasure;
And David came to the two hundred men, which were so feeble that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to dwell at the brook: and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and when David came near to the people, he saluted them.
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah: for men abhorred the offering of Jehovah.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
And David pursued, and he and four hundred men: for they were two hundred men, and they could not go over the brook.
For ye had mercy on me in my bands, and rejoiced the spoil of your wares, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an old substance.
Neither is he made a vow, that he was priest;
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; before Jehovah is your way wherein ye go.
I commend for the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
Neither shall he offer himself often, as the high priest shall enter into the holy place every year with blood;
For being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance by inheritance than they are.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the woman went her way, and ate, and her countenance was no more sad.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah, when Memucan was dead.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
And the five men went, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were therein, how they dwelt treacherously, after the manner of the Zidonians, quiet and safe; and there was no ruler in the land to put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the Zidonians, and had no business with any man.
These are the nations, whom Jehovah hath forsaken, to make Israel known by them, even as many of Israel had not known all the wars of Canaan;
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Rejoice with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son in law.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and women, and all the inhabitants of the city, and shut it to them, and went up to the top of the tower.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are lawful, whatsoever things are lawful, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are good, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any power, and if there be any praise, consider these things.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
And he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, and the sons of Jacob with the same word.
And the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and all the children of the east, lay on the valley, as grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and thorns; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
and they made a vow unto Jehovah, saying, If thou shalt not deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
And said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when the time was fulfilled after the time of the month, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have called him of Jehovah.
And he said, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice; and he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Abdon the son of Dodai the Pirathonite died; and they buried the Pirathonite in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.
For when God made a vow unto Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself:
And they sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?
And another company went toward Beth-horon; and another company went toward the way of the valley of Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
and we looked unto Jesus the Christ, and did the work of our faith; and for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, and despised the shame, and was set down at the right hand of God.
And they called the name of the city Dan after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the city was Achsah at the first.
And the Lord called yet again, and rose up, and came to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son, lie down again.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Behold ye whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king.
And he answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
and over it the glory of the glory of the glory, whereof we can not now speak.
For he of whom these things are said shall be for another tribe, whereof no man served at the altar.
And David was wise in all his ways: and Jehovah was with him.
And Heber the Kenites, which was of the children of Hobab the father of Moses, had cut off from the Kenites, and pitched his tent unto the plain of Jamlah, which is by Kedesh.
For by it the elders obtained a good report.
and let us consider one another to provoke love and to good works.
And Saul gathered all the people together for war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with the Philistines.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and an ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, and the child was young.
And he went to the house of his father in Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, which were threescore and ten, upon one stone; yet he left the youngest, but he hid himself.
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt that is lent unto Jehovah: and they went unto their own home.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand; and they slew of them ten thousand men.
And as he did so by year, when she went up into the house of Jehovah, she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, even because we have forsaken our God, and also served the Baalim.
And the house of Joseph sent to weep Beth-el; and the name of the city was at Luz.
And it came to pass, as soon as he was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and went after the Baalim, and made Baal their god.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of his mother's father, saying,
And Saul said unto his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it; lest these uncircumcised come, and thrust me through, and abuse me; but his armourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. So Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in strength, and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him every day, but God gave him not into his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and when we saw that they were no whither, we came to Samuel.
And there was a man of Zorah, of the family of the children of Dan, whose name was Adam; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
For the word of God is swift, and strong, and small in number, than every one that hath a two-edged sword, even unto the dividing of soul and of the spirit, and of the marrow and the marrow, and of the thoughts and of the heart.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from the place by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died: for he was an old man, and heavy, and he had judged Israel forty years.
And the inhabitants of the villages ceased, and they ceased in Israel; and when Rebecca came, I rose up, that I arose a mother in Israel.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, saying, Let me go, why should I kill thee?
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and plundered their tents.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have here at hand, the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that I may give unto the man of God, to tell us our way.
so also Christ did not glorify himself to be made a high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.
God, who in the dry times and in divers things spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets,
Salute all them that rule over you, and all the saints: they of Italy salute you.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat: but his servants, with the woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
that by two tables did we pray, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong comfort, who have fled for a place to lay hold on the hope set before us;
And he had thirty sons and thirty daughters, whom he sent abroad, and took in thirty daughters for his sons; and he judged Israel seven years.
And the sixth of them judged Israel six years: and they died in the land of Gilead, and were buried in the cities of Gilead.
And her father said, I thought that thou hadst utterly hated her: therefore I gave her to thy companion: is not her younger sister better than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There is not a razor upon my head; for I am a separate man unto God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength shall depart from me, and I shall be weak, and be like one other man.
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went, and made Abimelech king by the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but verily will we not kill thee. And they bound him with two a new cords, and brought him up out of the rock.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the place that was with it, in which the stones of gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt-offerings, and offered sacrifice the same day unto Jehovah.
So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Shimron.
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God.
And the children of Dan sent five men out of their coasts, men of valor, and Zorah, and Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, search the land: who when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they lodged there.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred cakes, and two cups of wine, and five sheep prepared, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she urged him to ask her father a field: and she lighted off her ass, and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me:
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and took their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And one of the people answered one of the people, and said, Thy father commanded the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread this day, and the people faint.
As for the same contention which ye have seen in me, and now hear ye to be in me.
And she took hold of them, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines are upon thee, and there were a lie in the chamber; and he brake them from his arms as a thread.
And the whole congregation sent to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peace unto them.
And he sent messengers throughout all the mount of Ephraim, saying, Come down against the Midianites, and take before them the waters unto Bethdar, and the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto Bethdar, and the Jordan.
And her adversaries also provoked her to make her rage, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the lords of the Philistines passed over with hundreds, and by thousands; but David and his men went in unto the king.
And thou shalt hear what they say; and afterwards thy hands shall be strengthened to go down to the camp. Then he went down with the staff of his servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in the camp.
And Jair died, and was buried in his stead.
And there was trembling in the camp, and in the field, and among all the people; the bands, and the spoilers, they also trembled; and the earth shook, and it was very great.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
For there is verily a disbreaking of the commandment that goeth before for the weak, and unhindered.
And he went to Ramah in Ramah; and the Spirit of God was upon him, and he went on and prophesied, until he came to Ramah in Ramah.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Bethlehem, and was there four months.
I will shoot three arrows upon the sides thereof, As I have shot at a mark.
that I might know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being reconciled unto his death;
And the wall of Jericho fell upon the wall of Jericho seven days.
holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I run not in vain, neither laboured in vain.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no bread under mine hand, but there is holy bread: if the young men have kept themselves at least of women.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son in the law in the two.
If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come unto you; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
having therefore therefore, brethren, bold to enter into the holy part by the blood of Jesus,
And the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And David went out whithersoever he sent him, and prospered: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was pleased in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
And Saul said, Thus shalt ye say unto David, The king desireth not any more dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And he said, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed and of thy vineyards, and give to his servants, and to his servants.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thine hand this day: now therefore let me smite him with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.
If they shall fall away, to revive them again unto repentance; seeing they have crucified to themselves the Son of God, and put him to shame.
And Shammah the son said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the nobles, and upon all the people that were therein; and the dead, which he slew at his death, were more than they that he slew in his life.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longing for, my joy and my crown, stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Jehovah liveth, and there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised up a deliverer unto the children of Israel, who delivered them: Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
And Saul went down to the house of Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose heart God had touched.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain by man.
Shall the king of Israel come out? and after whom wilt thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a dream?
Wherefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said indeed that thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me for ever; but now Jehovah saith, Be thou far from me; for they that honor me will I honor; and they that hate me shall be despised.
And she vowed a vow, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt see the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but give unto thine handmaid a man, then will I give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall not be a razor upon his head.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and made themselves odious more than their fathers, and followed other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them: they did not cease from their own doings, nor from their own imagination.
Jehovah will render unto every man his righteousness and his faithfulness: for Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand to day; but I will not stretch out mine hand upon the anointed of Jehovah.
And when Sisera gathered all his chariots, even one hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the descent of the nations unto the river of Kishon.
And he took it in his hand, and ate, and came to his father and mother, and gave them, and they did eat: but he said not that he had taken the honey out of the dead's dead.
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise upon his sword, and died with him.
And David departed thence, and fled to the cave of Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither unto him.
how much less reprove ye, if ye be thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hast counted the blood of the covenant with which he was sanctified, and hath wrought in the Spirit of grace?
And Abigail the wife of Ishmael was given to his companion, whom he had made with him.
These all, having obtained a good report through faith, did not receive the promise.
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation by your prayer, and by the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Jehovah said unto him, The people are yet yet many, bring them down unto the water, and I will try them for thee there; and it shall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
For it was so much that Jesus made a covenant with the covenant.
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken also to the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee, and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.
And it came to pass, when the fire went up to heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar: and man and his wife looked upon it, and fell upon their faces to the ground.
And he said unto them, I would ask thee, that ye would give me every man the rings of his prey: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
Go now, I pray thee, and know, and know, and see, and see his place where his habitation is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very treacherously.
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man into his tent; and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
If ye have dealt faithfully and faithfully with baal, and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in thee.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, that is with the sheep.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith Jehovah; and the Lord will judge his people.
Let us therefore fear, lest a word be left from us to come into his rest, that none of you should seem to come short of it.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which were taken from thee, whereof thou hast cursed, and spake of my ears, behold, the silver is with me, and I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under the hill country.
And the children of Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer with them.
For he that preacheth Christ of strife, and not perfect, thought to add affliction unto my bonds:
And it came to pass, when she was praying before Jehovah, that she was called her mouth.
And they rose early on the morrow, and, behold, Dagon fell upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah; and they took their place of Dagon, and set him in his stead.
And Abigail came to the Carmelite; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, as the feast of a king; and the heart of Nabal was merry within him; for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
Neither will I cast out from before them any more of the nations which Joshua left when he died:
And Saul said, Bring me here a burnt-offering, and peace-offerings; and he offered the burnt-offering.
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law: and the days were not fulfilled.
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before was Kirjathsepher.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the camp, and came to Shiloh the same day with his garments rent, and with earth upon his head.
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the valley of the wilderness.
And when she saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he hath shewed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood upon the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hear you.
And the Carmelite answered David's servants, and said, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now a time that break away every man from his master.
But to do good and to divide not forget; For God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor a trespass of heart unto my lord, that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself: but when Jehovah will have dealt well with my lord, remember thine handmaid.
And Jehovah called again the third time; and he arose, and came to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And she knew that Jehovah had called the child.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest unto ever after the order of Malchijah.
But the people took of the spoil, and the sheep, and the oxen, and the chief of the vessels that should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for behold how great things he hath done unto thee.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels; Thou crowest him with glory and majesty, And hast set him over the works of thy hands.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, which by the everlasting Spirit sacrifice himself without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And Jonathan answered Saul, and said unto him, Send me away from me to Bethlehem.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days' tidings, that we may send messengers unto all the coasts of Israel; and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come out unto thee.
Thou hast put all things under his feet: for in that he put all under subjection under him, he left nothing that is not under him: but now we see not yet all things put under him.
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, but the fashion of the true; but to heaven, to appear before God for us.
And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words, and besought him, that his soul was vexed unto death.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of barley, and these ten loaves, and run unto the camp of thy brethren.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Japhlet, We turn again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And he said unto her, Give me a little water to drink: for I thirst. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the children of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
who shall change our vile bodies, that it may be made as unto his glory, according to the working wherewith he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
And the parable came to Mizpah unto his house; and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; and she was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
And as it is appointed unto men to die, but after this judgment,
And David was the youngest; and the three elder followed him.
And Adam arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake unto the woman? And he said, I am.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay in the midst of the wall, and his spear stuck in the ground; and Abner and the people laid round about him.
And the people came into the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that, when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came forth, and the vessels of the young men are holy; and the bread is in a common thing, even though it were hallowed this day in the vessel.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: because they did not keep my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
And there was a young man from Bethlehem in Judah, of the house of Judah; and there was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
Now therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise unto God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips thanksgiving to his name.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, and said unto David, Know thou certainly, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.
Do not forsake the assembling of ourselves, as the manner of some is; but exhort one another; and so much more, as ye see the day coming.
And the children of Gilead took the Jordan before the children of Ephraim; and it was so, that when the children of Ephraim that were escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou one of the children of Ephraim? If he said, No.
And from thence came out of the family of the children of Dan, out of Zorah, and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men prepared for war.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host fled, and cried, and fled.
For if we sin, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins.
Now when these things were done, the priests went continually to the first tent, to do the service of God.
And the boil took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold that which is left, set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time it is preserved for thee since I said, I have called the people. So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing.
And the king said to Baal, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And the people of Edom turned and fell upon the priests, and slew them in that day fourscore and five men that were clothed with a linen ephod.
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the workmen, and the deacons;
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the cry, they said, What is the voice of this great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, He is sick.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And when Saul heard that David was found, and the men that were with him, Saul dwelt in Gibeah under the oak in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood upon him.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
By faith he forsook Egypt, and did not fear the king's wrath; for he endured, as if he had seen him that is not of God.
For this man was reckoned more glory than Moses; forasmuch as he that built the house is more honorable than the house.
And all the people rose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go unto his tent, neither shall we any of us return into his house.
Shall I then take my bread and my water, and my flesh that I have slain for my shearers, and give it to men, whom I know not whence they are?
For where the covenant is, there must be the death of the slayer.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty men with him.
And it was so from that day, that he made it a statute and a statute unto Israel unto this day.
And it came to pass on the eighth day, that the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, were a Hebrew, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, and a Pharisee.
Jehovah therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
Now it came to pass on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines, that is on the other side; but he told not his father.
Ye have not yet resisted the blood of blood.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore get her for me to wife.
And he fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, let this iniquity be: and let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thine handmaid.
And his mother made him a little coat, and brought it unto him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the sacrifice of the sacrifice.
And he stripped his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the messenger answered, and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines; and there is a great slaughter among the people; and thy two sons, even the chief singer, and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
by which shall we be sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which proceedeth out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath avenged thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
but they pursued after the chariots, and after the host, to the end of the nations; and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
And they said, There must be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but none answered. Then he took her up upon an ass, and the man arose, and went into his place.
But Saul and the people that were with him, even the best of the flock, and the fat of the flock, and of the oxen, and of the beasts, and of all that was good, and all that was good, and that they should not utterly destroy them; but every thing that was abominable and abominable, and utterly destroyed utterly.
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they said, To bind up the son we are come up, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And Jesse made Shammah to pass by: and he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, and the Philistines: and he brake the girdle, as a piece of flax is broken when it toucheth the fire, and his strength was not known.
And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have done the commandment of Jehovah.
Not that I speak in regard of desire: for I have learned, in whatsoever manner I am, therewith it is to be well-pleasing.
But what profit is it unto me, that I have counted the loss for Christ?
And what shall I say more? For the time would fail me, and I should say unto thee, I pray thee, on the day that I should say unto thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, the days of David, the son of Barachel, the son of Shimea, the son of Barachel, the son of Barachel, and of the prophets.
And I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of the house of Eli shall not be cleansed with sacrifice nor offering for ever.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth was there again.
And they were stoned, and were cast asunder, they were slain with the sword: they wandered about in rams' skins, and of badgers' skins; and they were poor, and afflicted, and afflicted.
But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his coast: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And, behold, as for Sisera, as for Sisera, came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest: and when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.
And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of the Jews, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
but unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; the scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom.
For I will show mercy to their iniquity, and their transgressions and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And Japhlet the Gileadite was a mighty man, and he was the son of a harlot: and Gilead begat Japhlet.
And he turned from him to another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.
And the uncle of Saul said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee.
and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is by the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
In the days of Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, in the days of Jai, the highways were empty; and the wayfaring men walked by the way.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, which he did for Israel.
Now faith is the things which are waiting for, and the things which are not seen.
For unto you it is given in the Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;
And David enquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thine hand.
And the men of Israel said unto Benjamin, Rule thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning, and slew the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass that they that remained were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
Is it not wheat to day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may see and see, and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking a king.
And the children of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
For if he had given them rest, then he would not afterward have spoken of another day.
Have I hated men, that ye have brought this man to a mad man in my presence? shall this man come into my house?
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they made him drink water.
And the child Samuel grew on, and was in grace with the Lord, and also with men.
It is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the anointed of Jehovah. And now behold the king's spear, and the staff of water that was in his heart.
For every house is builded by men; but he that built all things is God.
Yea, and if I offer on the sacrifice and in your faith, I delight, and rejoice with you all.
that we also may be as all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And one of the same place answered and said, Who is their father? So it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see that is gone from us: and when they were numbered, behold, Jonathan, and his armourbearer were not there.
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw that he was a child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart; and Jehovah hath commanded him to be captain over his people; for thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
And the spies saw a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, the entering into the city, and we will shew thee mercy.
And he said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up, and he is covered with a garment. And Saul knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And there went out a mighty man out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And when he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the prison our being shut, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.
And he judged Israel twenty years, and died; and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the face of an angel of God, very terrible; but I asked him not whence he was, neither told him his name.
And the men of Gibeah rose up against me, and surrounded the house round about me by night, and thought to have slain me; and my concubine they compelled, that she was dead.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou, mighty man of valour.
And David fled from the city of Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And David said to the king, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant is to do. And David said unto David, Wherefore will I make thee my head for ever?
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah; and Elkanah knew Uriah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And David went from thence to Mizpah; and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with thee, till I know what God will do for me.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
As saith the parable of the elders, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked; But mine hand shall not be upon thee.
And Micah said, Know now, I pray thee, that Jehovah will do me good, seeing that I have a Levite before my priest.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; and let all thy desire lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and he rent him, as he would have rent a kid, and had nothing in his hand: but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
And they slew Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all the men of valor, and all men of valor; and they escaped not a man.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is clothed, receive blessing from God:
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide, and continue with you all for your sakes and joy of faith:
And there was a high priest over the house of God.
But call to remembrance the former days, in which ye were lightened, ye afflicted a great fight.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, Abimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me here the ephod. And Abiathar brought there the ephod to David.
And the angel of Jehovah appeareth unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And the king of the children of Ammon answered the messengers of Imnah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon unto Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore restore the land again.
Now ye also, ye also, know also, that in the beginning of the good tidings, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly came with me, as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.
And an angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Balaam, saying, I have brought thee up out of Egypt, and have brought thee unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will not break my covenant with you.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thine hand.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he said, Because this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
And the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armor made, was about twenty men, as it were an half part of the land, which a yoke of oxen might plow.
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcrafts, and the imagination of their heart is as iniquity and idols: because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also cast thee off from being king.
And Saul yet was the more afraid of David; and Saul became the enemy of David continually.
And there arose also one, and him as dead as dead, and many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Art thou not Abner? And Abner answered, Who art thou that cry unto the king?
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And he smote them from Aroer, until thou comest to Minnith, even twenty cities, and unto the valley of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And Jehovah visited Hananiah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel grew before Jehovah.
and they took the women captive, that were therein; they slew not any, neither great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.
And he said unto them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointing is witness this day, that ye have not found it in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land; but the king of Edom would not hearken to it. And they sent to the king of Moab, but he would not consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
And he said unto them, Thus saith he, Thus saith Micah with me, and hired me, and I am his priest.
And unto Jesus was the mediator of the new testament, and of the blood of sprinkling, than of Abel.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said, and drove thence thence three sons of Anak.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely he cometh up to defy Israel; and the man that killeth him, the king will make him rich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side; and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side; and there was a valley between them.
by faith Abraham, when he was called to go forth into a place that he should receive for inheritance: and he went out, and did not know where he went.
( Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in the wilderness, and in the mountains, and in holes, and in holes of the earth.
And Moses believed not to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served Baal, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook Jehovah, and did not serve him.
For he that sanctify and those that are sanctified are all of one: for he is not ashamed to call them brethren.
And at the time of her death, the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
And the lords of the Philistines brought up unto her seven green things that had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
Are they not all serving spirits, sent forth to serve them that shall be heirs of salvation?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, be thus minded; and if ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell us, how is this wickedness?
that we may draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our heart loosed from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
and it is yet far more: for that, after the similitude of Malchijah, there stood another priest.
And Micah bare the Levites; and the young man was his priest, and he was in the house of Micah.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the den which are in the mountains, and in the caves, and in the rocks.
Concerning zeal, persecute the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law, without blemish.
And he said unto him, Far be it from me: thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall do nothing great or small, but that he will show it me: why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so.
And when he had shewed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man go, and all his family.
And they turned aside thither, to go in and lodge in Gibeah; and when he went in, he sat down in the street of the city; for there was no man in his house to lodge.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him.
Then answered all the wicked men and the wicked men of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and depart.
Take heed for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication, let your supplication be made known unto God.
Then said the Lord God, Bring hither to me the king of Amalek, the king of the Amalekites. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing before.
And in this place, if they enter into my rest.
And when the Philistines saw it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
All the saints salute you; especially they that are of Caesar's household.
For we have no city abiding, but we seek one to come.
And he came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, and pursued them.
And her wise women answered her; Yea, she returned with her voice.
And God hearkened unto the voice of man; and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field; but the name of her husband was not with her.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with thee? and their anger was abated at him, as he said.
That the daughters of Israel went to lament the daughter of Jephllows, four days in a year.
to the chief congregation, and to the assembly of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect;
Thy servant slew the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistines shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the hosts of the living God.
If ye endure instruction, God dealeth with you as with children; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
Neither by the blood of the goats and the calves, but by his own blood he entered into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
And he had great brass upon his feet, and a rainbow between his shoulders.
And he took his staff in his hand, and took him five of the smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's sack, which he had, even in a bag; and his mouth was in his hand; and he drew near to the Philistines.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have come into the land.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people safe, and to a great land: for God hath given it into your hands, a place where there is no pleasure in the land.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, which pertained unto Joash the Hushathite: and his son smote the wheat with the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and the people as the sand that is upon the sea; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Bethaven.
For men truly swear by the greater; and a solemn oath is unto them an end of all strife.
Jehovah do so, and much more to Jonathan; but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But we are not of them that return to destruction, but of those that believe to the salvation of the soul.
And Japhlet fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Ishtob; and there were gathered with vain men, and went out with him.
And they found Sippai, and they fought against him, and slew the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
But God clave the hollow place that was in the mouth, and there came water there out; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof stone, which is in a den unto this day.
And David knew that Saul was in secret in secret against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
Speak, I pray thee, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, whether it is better for you, that all the sons of Jerubbesheth, which are threescore and ten, reign over you, or that one reign over you? and remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And they called the name of that place to Jehovah, and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
Let the brotherly love continue.
And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; for he had not found it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these; for I have not found them. And David put them away.
and said, O Jehovah God of Israel, why is this thing come to pass in Israel, that there should be one tribe lacking in Israel?
Brethren, I do not count myself to bear: but this I do, and forget the things that are behind, and tell to those things which are before,
Gilead is beyond the Jordan; and why is Dan left in ships? Asher continued to the sea, and dwelt in his breaches.
And the children of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
And Melchizedek king of Salem, the priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham from the slaughter of the kings, blessed him;
seeing then that we have a great high priest, which is passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and obey his voice, and rebel not against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king that reigneth over you, cleave unto Jehovah your God:
Behold, I will put a wool of wool in the threshing-floor, and if the dew be upon the wool, and it be dry upon all the earth, then will I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
And the hundred men, and the hundred men that were with him, came unto the outside of the camp in the beginning of the midst of the camp; and they had but a new watch; and they blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels that were in their hands.
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which should be spoken after.
And he said unto them, What have I done now in you? Is not the cluster of the cluster of Ephraim better than the cluster of Abiezer?
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and treated her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her go.
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons; and his wife's sons grew up; and they cast out Japhlet, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a strange woman.
And the children of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand; and they set on fire all the cities that they came to.
Let us hold fast the faith of our faith without wavering; for he is faithful that hath promised.
And it came to pass between the fords, that Jonathan sought to go over unto the host of the Philistines; and there was a sharp rock upon the one side, and a flint on the other side: and the name of the one was altered, and the name of the other.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and weep my virginity, I and my companions.
And it came to pass, when David's young men came, they spake unto the Carmelite according to all these words in the name of David, and ceased.
And Adam said unto the angel of the Lord, I pray thee, let us delay thee, until we have prepared a young goat for thee.
and at Nob, the city of the priests, smote him with the edge of the sword, both men and women, and children and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And the Sidonians, and the Amalekite, and the Ashdodites, did oppress you; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen that Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand in the cave; and some have told me to kill thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is Jehovah's anointed.
And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into mine hand: for he is shut in, entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
And David said, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with what Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.
And they said unto them, I and my people were in great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye did not deliver me out of their hands.
And the Lord discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before Zoan; and when Sisera lighted off his chariot, he fled away upon his feet.
And David heard in the wilderness, that he did shear his sheep.
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king: for he hath turned back from me, and hath not kept my commandments; and it grieved Samuel; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And as for thy asses that were lost three days ago, set not thine heart upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And Samuel dwelt until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel was afraid to shew forth the vision.
And they made a covenant before Jehovah; and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
Nay, my sons, for it is not good that I hear: Ye make the people of Jehovah transgress.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a young man, and a goodly young man; and there was not among the children of Israel a master, than he: from his shoulders and upward he was above all the people.
And the mountains melted from before Jehovah, even the Lord God of Israel.
And as he had endured, he obtained the promise.
And when he lifted up his eyes, he saw a traveller in the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and where comest thou?
And she fastened it with the girdle, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, and Shammah the son. And he awoke from his sleep, and went away with the hammer of the wood, and with the house.
And he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that smote the firstborn should touch them.
And he said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a tree from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me, make haste, and do as I have done.
And again he bringeth forth the first-fruits into the world, and saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
Yet Jehovah raiseth up judges, Who delivereth them out of the hand of them that despoil them.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, And his ministers a flame of fire.
And thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: yet if there be in me iniquity, slay me; for why should thou bring me unto thy father?
For the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, and not for his life, to supply your lack of service toward me.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly, that the asses were found: but of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a man of Benjamin, a Benjamite, a Benjamite; and the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon, the king of Moab.
Then said Elkanah her husband unto her, Why are thou weeping? and why hast thou fasted? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
to whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all: first by interpretation of the king's interpretation, and after that also the king of Salem, which is the King of peace;
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And he said, Where hast ye made a way to day? And David said, Concerning the south of Judah, and against the south of the sons of Jerahmeel, and against the land of the Kenites.
And Saul cast the spear; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David departed from his presence double.
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast was prolonged; and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he spake unto her, because she lay sore upon him; and she told the words to the children of her people.
And Abimelech reigned three years over Israel.
Now therefore let our lord command thy servants, which are before thee, to seek out a man, who is a cunning workman upon the harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit of God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And Abimelech and the company that were with him went forward, and stood in the entering of the gate; and the two companies ran upon all the people that were in the field, and slew them.
Have I then begun to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute any thing to his servant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy servant knoweth not all this, less or more.
and the blade went in after the blade, and the fat closed upon the edge, so that he could not draw the sword out of his belly; and the dust came out.
even the reproach of Christ more than the treasures of Egypt; for he had respect for the reward of the reward.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, that Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, the uncle of Saul.
For the priesthood is changed; there is no necessity in the law.
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat, that serve the tabernacle.
Wherefore we receive a kingdom which can not be moved: let us have grace, whereby we may serve God in the fear of God with fear and godliness.
And Jonathan smote the band of the Philistines that were in Geba; and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and brimstone, and called the name of it, saying, Hitherto hath Jehovah helped us.
And Jonathan said unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will do for thee.
Take heed to the dogs, beware of evil men, beware of the meekness.
and to those that were in Hormah, and unto them that were in league with them, and to them that were in war;
And Jehoahaz the son of Joash died in a good old age; and he was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the house of Eglah.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they rose early in the morning, that he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Comfort thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward go thy way.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they spoil the threshing-floor.
And Deborah, a prophetess, was a prophetess, and she judged Israel at that time.
And when the words were heard which David spake, they told them before Saul; and he sent for him.
And he brought down the people unto the waters; and Jehovah said unto Israel, Every one that goeth out of the water with his tongue, as a dog's dog, shall thou set by himself; and likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, even to me indeed is not evil, but for you it is saved.
Therefore keep the precepts of the doctrine of Christ, let us go to perfection, putting not the foundation of repentance from the dead, and faith toward God;
And thou shalt say unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
which stood only in meats and drinking, and divers ings, and divers ings, laid on them till the time of repentance.
But my God shall supply all your need for his riches in the glory of Christ Jesus.
But they made himself of no name, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And the kings came and fought, and smote the kings of Canaan with the waters of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo; and they took no profit.
And the son of Amasa came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
Now therefore let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: If Jehovah have stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering; but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah: for they have driven me out from abiding in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went out to war; and Jehovah delivered the city of Ramah into his hand, and his hand prevailed against Migdol.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the clothing, and returned, and came to nought.
And it was so terrible that Moses said, I fear and am troubled.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Gittite.
And before the light of God went forth into the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a land southward: give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
But the man would not tarry that night; but he rose up, and went, and came to Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine also with him.
And the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the shewbread, that was taken before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
But if not, let fire come out of Abimelech, and consume the men of Shechem, and the house of the Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of the Millo, and consume Abimelech.
See not every man in his own works, But every man also on the things of others.
but Christ as a son over his own house, whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence, and the joy of the hope in the end.
And they passed through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but came not in the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech.
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and went after the Philistines, until thou comest into the valley, and unto the gate of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Calneh, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
and they would to God this people were under my hand: then I would drive out Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy army, and come out.
And the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, who went up with them into the camp out of the country round about, they also returned to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
Only that the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least as before before,
And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
Now therefore know, and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household: for he is a man of Belial, that a man can not speak unto him.
And he shall take the tithe of thy sheep, and ye shall be his servants.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by the Urim, nor by the prophets.
And Saul answered and said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my house, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? why then speakest thou unto me?
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Bethlehem: and the elders of the city trembled at his coming, and said, Why are thou peace?
Thus was the Midianites subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more: and the country was quiet forty years in the days of Gezer.
And said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth; and Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And he found a new deal of a ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.
And the Philistines drew nigh the morning and evening, and offered himself forty days.
For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath kept me from destroying thee, unless thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there had not been left unto the man of Nabal by the day of the light any one that had a issue upon the wall.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah for the Midianites,
Now as for Zebah and Zalmunna, were in Benaiah 'measure, and with their armies, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of the east; for there fell an hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, and fought with the Philistines.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And all things were by the law purifying with blood; and without blood there is no atonement.
And he went also to Ramah, and came to a great well; and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are at Ramah in Ramah.
And they passed from thence to mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath said unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me: God doeth so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he said unto thee.
and to them that were in Sepharad, and to them that were in the cities of Jerahmeel, and unto them that were in the cities of the Kenites,
and Judah with its coast, and Ashkelon with its coast, and Ekron with its coast.
But I trust in Jehovah that I also will come shortly.
Take heed, and know all the lies whither he hid himself, and come again to me with the truth, and I will go with you; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him abroad throughout all the thousands of Judah.
And he said unto him, We are passing from Bethlehem to Judah, to the side of Ephraim; from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehem in Judah: but I am going to the house of Jehovah, and there is none that receiveth me to house.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, in a place that is on the north side of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south side of the wall.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some should enter therein; and they to whom it was first preached not in unbelief.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did not let any of his words fall to the ground.
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel; but they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
Wherefore we ought to give the more heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip.
And Saul said unto him, Why hast ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me to lie in wait, as at this day?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
Saul reigned one year, and reigned two years over Israel.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what pleaseth thee, tarry until thou hast weaned him; but Jehovah shall establish his word. And the woman abode, and gave her the nurse, until she was weaned.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hear thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and smote of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land: ye shall cast down their altars: but ye have not obeyed my voice: why hast ye done this?
And the man said unto him, I am he that came out of the host; and I fled to day out of the host. And he said, What is there, my son?
But a certain feared seeketh for judgment, and of fire, which shall devour the adversaries.
Wherefore now arise early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and as soon as ye rise early in the morning, and have light, depart.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou after my name, seeing it is hid?
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them; but the lad did not cast his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a child.
And Shammah went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be barren among women; and Samuel also divided them before Jehovah in Gilgal.
For every one that useth milk is brutish in the word of righteousness; for he is a child.
And Saul sent messengers again to David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And when they came to the land of the Kohathites, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father take care of the asses, and take care for us.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand.
And Samuel told him all the way, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which seemeth good to him.
that ye are not slothful; but they that are believing in faith and patience shall inherit the promises.
And the king sat upon his throne, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after gain, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.
Jehovah called the name of Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
And he knew that he was the Angel of Jehovah, saying, Alas, Lord Jehovah: for I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them through all the coasts of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out with one consent.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did what was right in his own eyes.
And that year they afflicted and afflicted the children of Israel, eighteen years, and all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which is in Gilead.
And it came to pass, when Saul returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And it came to pass in the days of the wheat harvest, that the son of Barachel came to his wife with a young goat; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And she sent and called the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and go up to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
Now therefore, take heed, I pray you, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
Say, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk in the way.
These all died in the faith, and not having received the promises, but seeing them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth.
Now now Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath cast out the Amorite before his people Israel, and shall ye possess it?
And Saul was very wroth, and the saying was displeasing to him; and he said, They have sought unto David ten thousands; and to me they have chosen many thousands; and what can he have more but the kingdom?
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
And these are the golden vessels which the Philistines returned for a trespass offering unto Jehovah: one for Ashdod, one, and Ashkelon, one, and Gath, one;
And she was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
always always always in prayer of mine for all my petitions,
And I will bring unto thee unto the river of Sisera, the captain of the army of Jabin, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thine hand.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and sanctified one of his sons, who was his priest.
And one of the young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he reviled them.
For likewise ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be a son in the law unto the king?
Now no correction for the present seem to be glad, but grievous; but afterwards it yieldeth good fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby.
and Jehovah did unto him as he spake by me: for Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand, and gave it to thy neighbour, even to David.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, That offering themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and put the jewels of gold, which ye shall return unto him for a trespass offering; and thou shalt send it away, that it may go.
The violence of the fire is upon the edge of the sword, And they have escaped the edge of the sword; They have made strong men in battle, And they have turned to flight the nations.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? and again I will be unto him a father, and he shall be unto me a son.
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb unto the day of his death.
And when the people saw him, they praised their God; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us.
And the ambush hasted, and ran at Gibeah; and the ambush drew near, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a reward of them that seek him diligently.
For ye know that afterward, when he would have received the blessing, he was rejected: for he did not find a place of repentance, though he sought it with tears.
And the people went upon the prey, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
And the Holy Spirit was manifested, that the things were not yet made manifest, while the first tabernacle was yet standing.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that thy words come to pass?
And after a time he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the dead bodies of the lion: and, behold, there was a swarm of bees and honey in the carcases of the lion.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And the name of Jehovah was a high priest after the order of Malchijah.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people spake of stone him; for the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons, and for his daughters; but David was comforted in Jehovah his God.
Then said he unto Zebah and Anammelech, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one was like the sons of a king.
Then was he called David, and said unto him, Surely as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been righteous, and thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the camp, is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords do not favor thee.
And David was at Nob with Abimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at the presence of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees;
And said unto him, Thus saith the parable, Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon:
And David said unto him, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go up against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he had forty sons and nephews, that rode upon threescore and ten asses; and he judged Israel eight years.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes: I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And she answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy request that thou hast asked him.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I will not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other Phanuel; and Penuel had no children.
And Jotham fled, and fled, and went to Beer-sheba, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And Samuel was a child before Jehovah, and girded with a linen ephod.
And Jehovah said unto him, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel triumph against me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
by faith, Noah, being warned of God of things that are not seen, being afraid, made a ship to the redemption of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, Behold the man whom I spake unto thee of: this same shall reign over my people.
And she said unto Shammah, Tell me, I pray thee, in the place of thy great strength, wherewith thou mayest be bound to afflict thee.
And Micah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest; and I will give thee ten pieces of silver by the year, and a suit of raiment, and thy provision. So the Levites went in.
And the flame rose up out of the city with a pillar of smoke; and Benjamin looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.
But I have all, and I have increased: I am full, and have taken away the things which were sent from you, a sweet savour, a sweet savour, a sacrifice pleasing to God.
So the people sent unto Shiloh, that they might bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why shall he be slain? what hath he done?
And he called to the young man his armor, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A women put him to death: and his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and lay thine hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a house in Israel?
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Shammah: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And he went from year to year to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and to Israel, in all these places.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me well, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the plains of the Jordan toward Moab, and did not let a man pass over.
Now Hananiah spake in her heart; but her lips fell, but her voice was not heard: therefore, Eli thought she was drunken.
And when he had ended the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.
And he said unto them, Out of the fruit came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweet; and they could not three days explain the parable.
So David took the spear, and the water of water out of the hand of Saul, and they fled; and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awaked; for they were all asleep: for a deep sleep from Jehovah fell upon them.
And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Beth Rehob; and they built a city, and dwelt therein.
Wilt thou not possess that which thy god hath given thee to possess? And whomsoever Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, they will we possess.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon, the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And he restored the money to his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the goldsmith, who made them a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: wherefore now send and bring him unto me, for he shall surely die.
Then said I, Behold, I come, in the volume of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in a troop.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it out of the hand of Ashdod.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill-country of Gaash.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this wickedness: turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart;
And it came to pass, when the men of the city rose early in the morning, that, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy; And hold him in remembrance.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.
And we went to the south of the Cherethites, and to the borders of Judah, and to Caleb southward; and we burned him with fire.
And Jesse took a ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose, and went away; and Jonathan went into the city.
And Adam besought Jehovah, and said, O my Lord, let the man of God that thou sentest come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And she called the child, saying, The glory is departed out of Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.
And the children of Israel by side of Benjamin were four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, If thou wilt keep me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah: for man knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, and the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is therein:
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no power to weep.
And David said unto him, Can thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.
And one of the servants answered, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Syrian, that is cunning in singing, and a mighty man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and excellent in matters, and Jehovah with him.
And being found in form as a man, he humbled himself, and was obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
And he smote the men of Bethshemesh, because they looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten many people with a great slaughter.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood over him, Hear now, ye Benjamin; and let the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, and make thee all captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds;
Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail; and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a fair countenance: but the man was corrupt and evil in his works; and he was of the house of Caleb.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan; and Saul swore, as Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
Now there was a sign between the men of Israel and the ambushes, that they should make a great flame with smoke out of the city.
And the servants of God said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And the man said, Now let thy words come to pass: how shall we command the child, and how shall we do unto him?
For even in Thessalonica ye sent again and again unto my necessity.
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and raiseth up.
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw a mighty man, or any valiant man, he took him unto him.
And Hananiah prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah; my horn is exalted in Jehovah: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And when the cart came into the field of Joshua, a city of Beth-, and stood there, there was a great stone; and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the cattle a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And David took all the flocks and the cattle, which they drove before them, and said, This is David's spoil.
For I am in a strait strait between two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better.
Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ; that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your matters, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind for the faith of the gospel.
And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, get thee down from the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
And Jonathan seduced David, because he loved him: for he loved him, as he loved his own soul.
And Samuel said, What meaneth this well of the sheep in mine ears, and the voice of the oxen which I hear?
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his portion goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that waiteth for the stuff; they shall be one member.
And the children of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, that no man shall see the Lord.
And here men that die receive tithes; but there receiveth them there, of whom it is witnesses that he liveth.
And the Philistines persecuted Saul and his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchijah, the sons of Saul.
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, and went hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
For unto the angels he put not subject the world to come, whereof we speak.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah will have done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and will have set thee ruler over Israel;
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer, and all his men that same day.
And David said unto Abimelech, Is there not under thy hand a spear or a sword? for I have not brought my sword nor my weapon with me, because the king's business hasted.
And Saul arose, and went down into the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread, which is called the sanctuary.
And when he numbered them, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, riding upon camels, and fled.
that ye may be perfect and without fault, the sons of God without rebuke, in the midst of a perverse and crooked nation, among whom ye shall shine as lights in the world.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I feared the people, and hearkened unto their voice.
But if ye be without warning, of which all are partakers of all men, ye are to be contentious, and not sons.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken; From the heavens shall he thunder upon them; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he shall give strength unto his king, And exalted the horn of his anointed.
And David arose, and went over with the six hundred men that were with him, even the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the tribulation of death, crowned with glory and glory, that by the grace of God ought death for every man.
And they would not hearken unto their judges; but they went after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obeying the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote the Carmelite, that he died.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
And the men of Jabesh said, Unto morrow will we come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
But I want you to understand, brethren, that the things which befell me have fallen to the uttermost part of the gospel.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel; and when they were gathered together, Israel was smitten before the Philistines; and they slew of the host in the field about four thousand men.
And all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to whet every man his portion, and his bed, and his axe, and his mamack.
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
And the spoilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one went to the way that leadeth to Ophrah, to the land of Bilhah.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me; behold, I come after thee, but she told not her husband of Nabal.
And the number of them that smote were three hundred men: and all the people fell upon their knees to drink water.
But if thou art afraid to go down, go thou with thy servant, and thou shalt go down to the camp.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day, What is better than honey more than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye have not found my riddle.
And when they forgat Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; Let them deliver thee in the time of thy affliction.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the old old: now that which goeth forth, and wax old, is ready to perish.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives, according to their number, of those that were before them; and they went and returned to their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
For certain, when they heard it, they provoked; but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
But they had a treasure for the caterpillar, and for the cutting of the liver, and for the forks, and for the axes, and for the cutting of the nails.
Why do ye harden your heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? and when he had wrought great among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dancing, then ye shall come out of the vineyards, and take away every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And Saul fell at once all on the earth, and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
In these last days hath spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed to inherit all things, by whom also he made the world.
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by the Lord, that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?
And he was grieved, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great victory into the hand of thy servant; and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
And when she heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth this uproar? And the man came in haste, and told him, saying,
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the king in the heavens;
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the Amorites drove the children of Dan into the mount; for they slew them not to go down into the valley.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the mountain, and he was before them.
And it came to pass, when Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise that was in the camp of the Philistines went on, and increased; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; for he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been unto thee very good.
And Bela went to Gaza, and saw a harlot, and went in unto her.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn over Saul, seeing I have cast him away from Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the son of Bethlehem: for I have given me a king among his sons.
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to the Lord unto Jehovah? And, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh Gilead unto the assembly.
Some therefore preach Christ also of envy and strife; and some also of good will.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever them that are sanctified.
And the children of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the children of Israel set themselves in array against them at Gibeah.
And the Philistines said, I have defied the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
that your joy may be multiplied in Christ Jesus for my coming unto you.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, beside the inhabitants of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the spear; but he fled from Saul's presence, and smote the spear into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
which had the golden censer, and the ark of the testimony round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And the children of Zebulun: Kedesh and Naphtali: Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet; and Deborah went up with him.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan shewed him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as in times past.
And Shammah the son went, and took three hundred foxes, and took a stone, and turned the tail to the tail, and put a lamp in the midst of two tails.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house; and David was with his hand as at other times; and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
And the children of Israel slew Baal and Ashtaroth, and Jehovah only.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and admonish those that walk, as ye have us prepared.
And Jehovah sent cedar-trees, and Ziza, and Jinath, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies on every side, and ye dwelt in safety.
And the king sent to call Abimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all the house of his father, the priests that were at Nob; and they came all of them to the king.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna, now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
And every priest shall stand continually, every day his daily service, and many times as sacrifices, which can not take away sin.
And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed.
Behold, here is my daughter a maid, and his concubine: behold, I will bring out now, and afflict them, and do with them what seemeth good unto thee: but unto this man do not so wickedly.
But this man, because he abideth for ever, hath a new priesthood.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the Holy Place.
For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now ye weep, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
And the garrison of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah: for ye have mercy on me.
But his wife said unto him, If the Lord were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt offering and a sacrifice at our hands, neither did he shew us all these things, nor did as at this time have told us this thing.
And they answered, We will willingly give them; and they spread a garment, and cast in it every man the rings of his prey.
Wherefore they inquired of Jehovah further, if the man should yet come thither. And Jehovah said, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the temple with the mouse, and the molten images, and the molten images.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and made it by Dagon.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew that evil was determined by my father to come upon thee, then would I not tell it thee?
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And he said unto him, Where is now thy mouth, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go, I pray now, and fight with them.
And now, behold, the king walketh before thee; and I am old and ruddy, and behold, my sons are with thee; and I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, I can not tell.
And after him the fifth of the children of Heth judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou young? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Aramite.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit of God was upon Saul, that David took an instrument and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and made unleavened cakes of it.
When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, blow ye the trumpets also upon every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and of Benjamin.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And the border of the one was on the north side against Michmash, and the south was toward Gibeah.
And there was no lack of them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, nor spoil, nor anything that they had taken to them: David recovered all.
And the princes of Issachar, Deborah, and the children of Issachar, and the inhabitants of the valley, were at the valley: for the children of Reuben were in the midst of the valley.
But the other love, knowing that I am set for the oracle of the gospel.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was the Lord, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
Suffer my joy, that ye may be likeminded, having the same love, being of one mind.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon had made war against Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to fetch themselves out of the land of Tob:
And the kine went up straight through the way to Bethshemesh, and went along the way, as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
And they rose early on the morrow, and, behold, Dagon fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon, and the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold: only the base of Dagon was left unto him.
having confidence in this very thing, that he that hath begun a good work in you shall perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ:
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were on the roof about three thousand men and women, that were beholding the appearance of Samhar.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against the Philistines to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he is a man of war from his youth.
And the children of Israel served Eglon, the king of Moab, eighteen years.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shammah the son said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye may not fall upon me.
For in that he himself suffered being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan, until the day of the captivity of the land.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and broke the vessels, and put the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of the Nethinim.
And as I say unto them, Levi also, who receiveth the tithe, even the tithes in Abraham.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli; and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, and there was no open vision.
and to them that were in Bethel, and unto them that were in the south side of Ramoth and out of Jattir,
And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, thou, and Ahimelech, and all thy father's house.
For ye come not unto the mountain that should be touched, and that burn with fire, nor unto darkness, and darkness, and tempest,
Be strong, and be strong as men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they are unto you: quit yourselves as men, and fight.
And he said, They were my brethren, even the children of my mother: As Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein, and smote the city, and sowed it with salt.
And this man went up out of his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And thou, Jehovah, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands:
He shall keep the feet of his saints; And the wicked shall be quiet in darkness; For by strength no man shall prevail.
And the six hundred men prepared with their weapons of war, which were of the children of Dan, by the entering of the gate.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Jehovah even will require it at the hand of the enemies of David.
even as it is meet for me to think of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence, and concerning the gospel, ye all partake of my grace.
And the men did so; and they took two oxen, and bound them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
Remember them that have the dominion over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation.
And the trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive tree, Be thou over us.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah in Ramah.
And when they were in the house of Micah, they perceived the voice of the young man the Levite; and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou here?
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon; and they gathered of them five thousand men in the highways, and pursued after them until time, and slew two thousand men of them.
And when Joshua had let the people go, every man went to his inheritance to possess the land.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me daily; and tomorrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thine heart.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of the assembly will I sing praises unto thee.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not dwell with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon our god Dagon.
And the man took a young goat with a present offering, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah; and the angel did wonder, and the man's wife looked upon him.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, Thus shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
And Jonathan said unto David, Tomorrow is the new moon; and thou shalt be left, for thy throne is desolate.
And David said, What now have I done? is there not a cause?
For though he were a son, yet learned he obeyed by the things which he suffered;
And when the inhabitants of Gilead heard of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And there was a man in Maon, whose substance was in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went to his house: but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And the man departed from the city of Judah, to sojourn in Judah, to sojourn there; and he came to the house of Micah to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And they came unto their brethren unto Zareah and Eshtaol; and their brethren said unto them, What do ye say?
And she arose, and bowed herself upon her face to the earth, and said, Behold, thy handmaid is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation; for I write a letter unto you in few words.
And his armourbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And thou hast declared this day how thou hast dealt well with me: forasmuch as Jehovah hath delivered me into thy hand, thou didst not destroy me.
And Saul and all the people that were with him gathered themselves, and they came to the battle; and, behold, every man's sword was against his neighbour, and there was a very great tumult.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until thou comest unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
For this day I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why troubled thou me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore troubled: for the Philistines have made war against me, and God is departed from me, neither of the prophets nor of the dream; therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And Joshua said unto him, Oh, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where are all his marvellous works which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hand of the Midianites.
By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testified of his gifts; and by him he died yet.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field, which was also from the hill-country of Ephraim; and he dwelt in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamin.
But if ye can not tell me, then ye shall give me thirty curtains and thirty changes of garments. And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son: and Jonathan was taken.
This mind be in you, which also is in Christ Jesus.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may kill them.
And there came a man of God unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I openly appear unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods, which I made, and ye go away; and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And Samuel took a lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
Now this is the thing which we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it.
And it shall come to pass, after that thou shalt come to the mountain of God, where the garrison of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp, and a flute, and a flute, and a harp before them; and they shall prophesy:
And they found themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
who serve unto the pattern and the shadow of the heavens, as Moses was instructed to make the tabernacle: for behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern that are shewn thee in the mountain.
Whithersoever them went forth, the hand of Jehovah was upon them for evil, as Jehovah had said; and as Jehovah had sworn unto them, and they were greatly grieved.
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the battle, the Philistines of Gath, the Gittite of the Philistines, and spake according to the words of the Philistines; and David heard them.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avengeth me; but mine hand shall not be upon thee.
Because thou didst not obey the voice of Jehovah, nor did his fierce wrath against Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
For such a high priest, who is holy, and undefiled, and undefiled, separated from sinners, and made high above the heavens,
Salute all saints in Christ Jesus. The brethren salute you.
If therefore the Levites were in charge of the priesthood, ( for the people have received the law), what need shall there be that there should be a priest to the commandment of Malchijah, and not be called after Aaron?
And he asked for water, and gave him milk; and she brought forth butter in the midst of it.
For it is known that our Lord came from Judah; and Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
And he went in, and prepared a young goat, and unleavened cakes of fine flour; and the flesh he put in a basket, and put it in a vessel, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and brought it out.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
whose voice shook the earth; but now he hath promised, saying, Yet again I shake not the earth alone, but also the heavens.
According to all the works that they have done from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shean, and her cities, and Taanach, and her towns, and the inhabitants of Dor, and her cities, and the inhabitants of Ibleam, and her cities, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and her cities: but the Canaanites dwelt in that land.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth KirjathSepher, and taketh it, will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a valiant man? and who is like unto thee in Israel? why then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to destroy the king thy lord.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgot Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And when the lad was gone, David rose from a place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and fell three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David was greater.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away his face from his hand, and called that place Ramah.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Offer and offering thee not, but a body hast thou prepared me.
For the women received their dead raised again; and others were tormented, not receiving salvation, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
and behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all adversity.
And David sent forth spies, and knew that Saul had come in very deed.
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was sore troubled.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man cometh and enquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
Then said all the trees unto the thorns, Come thou, and reign over us.
And he smote them with a great slaughter; and he went down, and dwelt in the top of the rock of Etam.
and all the inhabitants of the land came to wood, and there was honey upon the ground.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that spoiled them; and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, so that they could no more stand before their enemies.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped there; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, that both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
Swear now unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and destroy my name from my father's house.
Now therefore what is under thine hand? give me five loaves of bread in mine hand, or what is there present.
But I thought it necessary to send unto you, I pray thee, to my brother, and to my brother, and to his companion, and to the soldier, and to thy messenger, and he that ministered unto my pleasure.
That we may say, Jehovah is my help; And I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
And how shall we escape, if we fail so great salvation, which at first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by those who heard him?
Therefore said I, The Philistines have come down unto me unto Gilgal, and have not prayed unto Jehovah: I have made myself therefore, and I have offered a burnt-offering.
But strong flesh is for them that are of full age; and they that are in part have their senses minded to discern both good and evil.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house; and the child ministered unto Jehovah before Eli the priest.
By faith Abraham, when he was tempted, offered up Isaac; and he that received the promises offered his only begotten son,
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house, and he shall walk before mine anointed for ever.
In that day I will accomplish against thee all things which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.
And he changed his way before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and tarried in the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall upon his beard.
And they ran and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was above all the people from his shoulder and upward.
Bless Jehovah for the vengeance of Israel, When the people willingly offered themselves.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah gave me my request which I asked him:
And Araunah spoke again, and said, Behold, men are come down by the midst of the earth, and another company is come by the plain of Chittim.
And Enoch was crucified by faith, that he should not see death, but was not found, because God had interpreted him: for before his interpretation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.
Again he awaketh a day, saying in David, To day, after a time; as it is said, To day shalt thou hear his voice, and harden not your heart.
We have had fathers of our flesh which chastened us, and we have made them afraid: shall we not much more be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
And the battle went sore against Saul; and the archers smote him, and he was wounded with the archers.
And Jonathan said to the young man that bore his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the camp of these uncircumcised men, and let it be that Jehovah will do for us; for there is no restraint in Jehovah to save by many or few.
And Abimelech was told, that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
And the Amorites dwelt in the mount of Ajalon, in Aijalon, and in dances; and the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and they became tributaries.
who was faithful to him that gave him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house.
For whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, and every son of whom he receiveth.
Now therefore deliver us the men, the children of Belial which are in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and put away evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken to the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made judges over Israel.
Then David and his men, that were about six hundred, arose, and departed from Keilah, and went wheresoever they should go; and it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah; and he bare to go forth.
And David believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And it came to pass in the day of the battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul, and with Jonathan his son was there.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to set him in the midst of the camp of the children of Dan in the midst of Zorah, and in the midst of the camp.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we fear here in Judah; how much more shall we go to Keilah against the army of the Philistines?
Zebulun and Naphtali are a people that oppress themselves unto death in the high places of the field.
And Michal let David down through a window, and he went and fled, and escaped.
Therefore I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.
How much more, if the people had eaten willingly in the day of the spoil of their enemies which they found; for had there not been a great slaughter among the Philistines?
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, all Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye reproached me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?
And Saul said, Draw near hither, all the chief of the people; and know, and know, wherein this sin is this day.
And the three sons of Jesse went, and followed Saul, and the name of his three sons, Eliab the first-born, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had come in the south, and in Ziklag, and smote in Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
And Ehud fled, and tarried still, and passed over beyond the waters, and escaped unto the place of water.
by a new and living way which he hath sanctified for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh.
But the thorns and the thorns are cast off, and is near to curse; whose end is to be burned.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my sight, working out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner begat Abner,
And as they were making their hearts glad, behold, the men of the city, the sons of Belial, surrounded the house round about, and smote at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine house, that we may know him.
Whereupon neither the first covenant was sanctified without blood.
that ye may approve the good things, that ye may be pure and without fault until the day of Christ.
And truly, if they had been mindful of that land whence they came from, they might have opportunity to have returned.
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second was Abijah; and they were judges in Beersheba.
And Elon the Netophathite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And Jabez went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn, my lord, turn in unto me; fear not; and when he had turned into the tent, she covered him with a garment.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this man return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be an adversary to us: for with which should he make atonement for his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
For if the word spoken by angels was faithful, and every transgression and transgression received a righteous reward,
and when I saw that ye did not deliver me, I put my life in my hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: why then come ye up unto me this day, to fight against me?
And all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the children of the east, gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And I beseech thee, an instrument of truth, help those women that have laboured with me in the glad tidings, and with virtue, and with my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
Harden not your heart, as in the provocation in the day of temptation in the wilderness:
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why come ye out to battle in array? am I not a captain of the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? choose ye a man, and let him come down to me.
which God, willing to shew to the heirs of the promise which he had made, confirmed it by an oath,
And the people came to the house of God, and abode there before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept sore.
And the three hundred blowing the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his brethren, even throughout all the host: and the army fled to Beth Shemesh in the valley, and unto the border of Abel, unto the bath.
without father, without parents, having neither begotten of days nor end of life, but made like unto the Son of God: and the priest abideth continually.
But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministration, by how much also he is the mediator of a good covenant, which was confirmed by promise.
who is made, not according to the law of the law, but after the power of an endless life.
And the men that died not were smitten with the prey: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
Take heed to them that have dominion over you, and be subject unto you; for they watch for your souls, as they ought to give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with sorrow: for that is unprofitable for you.
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah; for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that smote Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
For consider him that endured the provocation of sinners, lest ye be weary and faint in your heart.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, Until the sun be hot, ye shall help. And the messengers came and showed it to the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
Now therefore go ye, and proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return, and depart early from mount Gilead: and there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake; for it hath pleased Jehovah to make thee his people.
When ye come into the city, straightway ye shall find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice; and afterward they eat that which is bidden. Now therefore get ye up; for at this hour ye shall find him.
Then came up the song to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Shall not David hide himself with us in the wood of the wood, in the mount of Paran, which is on the south of the wilderness?
And when Samuel rose early to meet him in the morning, it was told to Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up, and passed on, and passed on to Gilgal.
And they said, Thou hast not stolen us, nor oppress us, neither hast thou taken of any man's hand.
Rejoice ye in Jehovah always; And again I say, Rejoice.
For I have said unto him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves odious, and he did not withhold them.
So David hid himself in the field; and when the new moon was come, the king sat down to eat flesh.
that I may prove Israel through them, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And the men of Israel were troubled that day, for Saul had commanded the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread until the evening, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted any meat.
not as though I had attained, but had been already perfect: but I follow after, if so be that I may understand that for which also I am borne of Christ Jesus.
And the song came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the mount of Paran, which is before the wilderness?
And Achbor the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
And the son of Shelemiah went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate; and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait.
So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Buy him, and see in his great strength, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him against him, and we will give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
who, being in the likeness of God, thought it not stolen with God:
And he shall take thy daughters to be with thee, and thy daughters to be with him, and to be with him, and to the baker.
And Abimelech dwelt in the field of the field; and the children of Heth smote him, and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and in her cities, and in Aroer, and her cities, and in all the cities that are by the coasts of the Arnon three hundred years? why then did ye not recover them in that time?
Yea, I count all things, but the glory of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I suffer the loss of all things, and count them as dung, that I may win Christ.
Christ therefore was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that seek him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
But Sisera fled upon his feet unto the tent of Jahalah the Jebusite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenites.
And Samuel said, Hath the Lord delight in burnt-offering and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to hearken is better than sacrifice, and to hear than the fat of rams.
and the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
And Jonathan gave unto his young men his companions, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And Adam said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
So David ran, and stood upon the Philistines, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw their mighty men, they fled.
And he called, and said, My son Samuel. And he answered, Here am I.
Let your glory be known unto all men; The Lord is at hand.
And he said, I have sinned: yet I beseech thee before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may serve Jehovah thy God.
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
Jesus Christ both yesterday and day and ever.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
But ye are come unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the high Jerusalem, and unto a multitude of angels.
But the tree fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his hands, and his great toes.
And she said unto him, How can thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah unto Mizpah.
And before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that offereth, Give flesh to the priest; for he shall not have boiled flesh of thee, but raw.
For by faith also Sarah herself became strong to conceive, and she was delivered of a child when she was old, because she judged him that was faithful.
And Samuel came no more to see him until the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And Shammah the son called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, even this once, O God, that I may be at once upon the Philistines for my two eyes.
And he said unto his young, Run, find out the arrows which I shoot: and as the lad ran, he shot an arrow on him.
And they came down from the high place into the city; and Samuel talked with Saul upon the top of the house.
And when thou comest to pass, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his brethren, and said, Behold, I had a dream, and there was a cake of barley in the camp of Midian, and came to a tent, and smote it, and overthrew it, and overthrew it, that the tent rested.
And the elders of the congregation said, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah God of Israel, when I have sounded my father hitherto, or the third day, and behold, if there be good toward David, and I send not unto thee, and shew it thee;
And David said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, to Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
Wherefore, seeing we are compassed together with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth overflow us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us;
And Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
For it was he, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the prince of their salvation perfect through the sufferings.
And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day, and the father's father said, Comfort thy heart, I pray thee; and they tarried until the ninth day; and they ate both of them.
And he came to the field by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men remained in the midst of the cave.
And Jehovah Elohim of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! and let one of the young men come and fetch it.
Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity; Therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah;
But God hath given grace unto us, that they should not be made perfect.
And Saul said, God do so, and also more; for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
And his father went down to the woman; and Jehiel the son made a feast; for so did the young men.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter Michal shall I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not upon his face, nor on the height of his stature, because I have refused him: for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth: for man looketh upon the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
And all that generation were gathered unto their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, who knew not the Lord, nor the works which he had done for Israel.
And Deborah, and Rebekah, the son of Abinadab, was on that day, saying,
I know also how to be abased, and I know how to abound: every place where I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And Shammah the son said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto thee: if thou canst tell it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give thee thirty curtains, and thirty changes of garments:
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And when Abiathar the son of Chenaanah had fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And the thorn-bush said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, and put your trust in my shadow: and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and consume the cedars of Lebanon.
The bow of the mighty are broken, And they that stumble are girded with strength.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; and they came as grasshoppers for multitude; for both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And Israel was greatly afflicted because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
For ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
Jehovah forbid that I should stretch out mine hand against Jehovah's anointed; but I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his hand, and the staff, and let us go.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
And Japhlet passed over unto the children of Ammon, to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he ran to him, and said, Behold I, for thou hast called me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings in the ears of the people; and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice; but yet warn them, and show them the way of the king that shall reign over them.
Of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called:
For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, and God rested the seventh day from all his works.
And when thou hast stayed three days, then shalt thou go down quickly, and come to the place where thou hast hid thyself, when the business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone of Ephraim.
And the lords of the Philistines gathered them together, to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy into our hand.
Neither did they shew kindness unto the house of Jerubbesheth, namely, as well as for all the goodness which he had shewn Israel.
in order to suffer affliction with the saints, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season;
And he fell down at her feet, and fell, and lay down; and at her feet he fell; and he fell, and there he fell down dead.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but the way that thou takest, thou shalt not be for thy glory; for Jehovah will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with an ensign to Kedesh.
Moreover, God forbid that I should not sin against the Lord, to pray for you; but I will teach you the good and the right way:
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed after them in the battle.
But the children of Asher dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they drove them not out.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a friend of thine, that is better than thou.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel out of the Midianites: have not I sent thee?
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Art here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down till he come hither.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; and David put his armor in his tent.
And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? and they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.
And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Loose the servant pass before us, and he passed on, and stand thou still a while, that I may shew thee the word of God.
For he looked for a city that hath foundations, Whose Maker and God is God.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Abidan, and blew the trumpet: and Abiezer was gathered after him.
And it came to pass at the time when the daughter of Michal the daughter of Saul was given unto David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
She hath put her hand to the nails, and her right hand to the hammer; and with the hammer she smote to Sisera, and she smote off his head, when she had slain, and smote through his palaces.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines rose, and came and came to meet David, that David hasted, and ran to the host to meet the Philistines.
And when the Philistines looked about, and saw David, he despised him; for he was a youth, and tender, and a fair countenance.
For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days are come, saith Jehovah, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
Now there was no one in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews smite them with swords or spears.
and call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me the one whom I name unto thee.
and Ziklag he gave him to be in Ziklag, that day for the kings of Judah unto this day.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and took possession of the city of palm-trees.
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit upon my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of the land of Israel: for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? and why come ye unto me now, when ye are in trouble?
And she said, As thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee, praying unto Jehovah.
And Shammah said unto the young man that held him by the hand, Suffer me, that I may feel the pillars of the house, that I may lean upon them.
Wherefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And when they were near Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for I hear of your wickedness by all this people.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the sheaf of life with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies shall he sling, as out of the midst of a sling.
And Saul saw David from that day and forward.
And when he came, behold, Eli sat upon a seat by the wayside, for his heart was moved for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried.
When Saul saw that he was wise, he feared him.
Then came the Spirit of Jehovah upon them, and passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah, and from Mizpah, and passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And they removed the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now in the last your visitation was increased, in which ye were diligent, but ye lacked the opportunity.
And Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And it shall come to pass, when their fathers and their brethren come unto us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be good unto them for our sakes; for we have not kept to every man his wife in the war: for ye have not given unto them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
And being made perfect, he became the God of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them dwelt in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
And he gathered an army, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that spoiled them.
And Abigail went up, and rode on an ass, and five maidens of her mother that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And it came to pass, when a man came to inquire of God, that a man went to inquire of God, saying, Come, and let us go to the prophet; for he that is now called a prophet, was before a prophet.
Awake, aha, awake; awake, awake, and utter a song; arise, arise, and take away thy captivity, thou son of Abinadab.
Then said he unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man mad: wherefore then have ye brought him to me?
Even though I also have confidence in the flesh, if any man think that he hath to trust in the flesh, I am more:
And it came to pass, when Israel was planted, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east; and they came up against them.
And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Kirjath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
Then said they unto him, Say now, and he said, Because he could not speak it right; for he could not speak it right. So they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell on that time forty and forty thousand.
who in the days of his flesh, when he offered up prayers, and supplications with a strong cry, and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;
And the Arkite sent again unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying,
And where the atonement is, there is no sin offering.
They that are delivered from the noise of the archers in the valleys, there shall they hear the righteous acts of Jehovah, even the righteous deeds toward the inhabitants of Israel; then shall the people of Jehovah go down to the gates.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel; and Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped by them; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Now the sons of Eli were the children of Belial; they knew not the Lord.
And Hananiah answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a faint spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And when he had set the rods upon fire, he let them go into the midst of the land of the Philistines, and burned up the desolation, and the standing corn, with the vineyards and the oil.
And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou forsaken the flock in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the imagination of thine heart, for thou art come down to see the battle.
And now, my father, behold, and behold the hem of thy garment in my hand: for in that I cut off the hem of thy garment, and slew thee not, know thou, and see that there is neither evil nor trespass in mine hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my soul to take it.
But Jonathan the son of Saul rejoiced greatly in David; and Jonathan answered David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and tarry in a secret place, and hide thyself.
So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the remnant of Israel every man unto his tent, and he spared them three hundred men: and the host of Midian was under him in the valley.
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard that, they entered into the house of the god.
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, set themselves in the assembly of the children of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew the sword.
Let us labor therefore to enter into that place, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her companions, and wept upon the mountains.
And they answered them, and said, He is, behold, he is before you: make haste now, for he came to the city: for there is a sacrifice of the people unto day in the high place.
And when he was put in the middle of the night, he rose at midnight, and took the doors of the gate, and the two pillars, and went away with them, and bound them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of an hill that is before Hebron.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and his armor after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armourbearer slew after him.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what shall thy father answer thee roughly?
But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of the pit, that his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
For the law hath a shadow of good things, and not the very image of the things, nor of the present sacrifice, which they have offered year by year, shall not be able to make it perfect.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with the sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I came unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, whom thou hast reproached.
And Samuel died; and all the children of Israel were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in Ramah in Ramah. And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And he said unto them, See me, and do likewise; and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
And God said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and build the kingdom there.
And the wise went with the elders of Gilead; and the people made him head, and captain over them; and they sang all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And he died, and died, and was buried at Bethlehem.
But the sons of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no present: but he held his peace.
Brethren, take heed lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But the angel of Jehovah did not appear unto man, and to his wife; and they knew that he was an angel of the Lord.
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever: neither when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
And the Philistines came and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
Cast not away therefore your confidence, That hath great recompense of reward.
And they set them up the graven image of Micah, which he made, even all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Abimelech went to smite at Thebez, and encamped against him, and took it.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten before us as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and bring them out of the city unto the highways.
And thus shall ye say unto him that liveth in peace, Peace be unto thee, and peace be unto thy house; and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And they said unto Tekoah, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
In the same way, the more is blessed, and there is no more: There is no more good for them.
And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was careless, gathered themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them, and there were with him four hundred men.
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter unto Benjamin to wife.
And David said unto Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no man know any thing of the business which I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee; and I have set my servants unto such and such a place.
And he brought the present unto Eglon unto Eglon; and it was very fat.
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up: for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be a sign unto us.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own eyes, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in the vineyards.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth;
in the same way, while ye were made a spectacle, both by reproach and afflictions, and part of part, while ye were friends of them that were in bondage.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head: for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And those things which ye have heard and received, and have heard, and seen in me, do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
And the young men went and went, and came, and told him all these words.
And all the people likewise smote every man his branch, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the hold, and set it on fire, that all the men of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
and ye rise up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten souls upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother.
Now Samuel did not know the Lord, nor the word of Jehovah spake unto him.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armor.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah that belonged to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
And David received of her hand, which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace unto thine house: see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy soul.
And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou mayest serve thee; for God is with thee.
So God smote on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
Let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his strength. And the land rested forty years.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rock of the wild goats.
Now therefore let not my blood fall to the earth before Jehovah: for the king of Israel is come out to search a gnat, as when the partridge taketh a bird in the mountains.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul with timbrels, and with gladness, and with instruments of music.
So David smote the Philistines with a sling, and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
And this is the word, but now it is necessary: that the things which are shaken are removed, as of things that are made, that those things which can not be moved may remain.
And Israel set a lie at Gibeah round about.
And there was a war again; and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
For we see that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know thy state.
For my father fought for you, and set thee far off, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;
Why standest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the pleasant places of the flock? For the divisions of Reuben are very great.
for all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, the son of Levi, the son of Levi; in one day they shall die both of them.
who was the glory of his glory, and of the divine image of his stature, and of the word of his power, when he had by himself purified our sins, and sat down on the right hand of the king on high;
For the law maketh men high priests that have infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was by the law, maketh the Son, who is sanctified for evermore.
So they sent and gathered together all the princes of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to his own place, that it may not kill us, and our people: for there was a great destruction throughout all the city: and the hand of God was very heavy there.
So Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and they set wait upon Shechem in four bands.
And David rose early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the wall, as the army went forth to battle, and cried for the battle.
For we that believe are come into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they enter into my rest: though the works were finished since the foundation of the world.
And Saul also and his men went to seek him; and they told David, and he came down into a rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before thee, and gave you their land.
And they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have a commandment to take the tithe of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham:
And she bare his concubine in Shechem, and bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.
For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God hath done from his.
And they went into the house of Micah, and brought the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the priest unto them, What do ye?
And it came to pass, when the days were fulfilled, that he gave up Penuel his wife, and all her sons and her daughters.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
Who can have mercy on the simple, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself is surrounded with infirmity.
And he went up, and went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents eastward, between Nobah and pottage, and smote the host; for the host was established.
Go not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again.
For the things which are in the heavens ought to be purified with these; but the things which are in the heavenly things are more than these.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
Why do ye provoke me in my sacrifices, and in my offering, which I have commanded in my dwelling-place, and anoint thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the prince of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And behold, the first covenant had the law of God, and the holy place.
who need not daily as the high priests, to offer sacrifice, first for his own sin, and for the people's; for this he did, when he offered up himself.
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is a man of God in this city, and he is a honourable man: all that he saith shall come to pass: now let us go thither, that he may shew us our way, that we may go.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their place.
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity that this man hath something to offer.
And many of the brethren in the Lord, being bold in my bonds, are bold to speak the word without fear.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass offering: then shall ye be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not removed from thee.
And when Samuel had made all the tribes of Israel come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And as they went up the hill to the city, they found young women going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, In this manner David spake.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they offered sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And all the children of Israel went out, and the assembly was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpah.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took thence a stone, and foul it, and smote the Philistines in his forehead, that the stone stuck into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
and they shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech secretly, saying, Behold, the son of Amasa, and his brethren, come to Shechem; and behold, they build the city against thee.
For to me that liveth is Christ, and to die there is profit.
But the high priest came unto the high priest, to come, a greater and perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that should say, not of this building.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
And the spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was with his hand.
For he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah wrought a great deliverance for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice: wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without cause?
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance of sins every year.
And Saul gave Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of David's wife, to shear the son of Laish.
Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost: and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, and go to seek the asses.
Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; And after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; Out of Machir came down princes, and out of Zebulun that handle the pen of the scribe.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he oppressed the children of Israel.
And when they came thither to the mountain, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And he smote the Amalekite from Havilah, until thou comest to Shur, that is over against Egypt.
Now therefore, if ye have done truth and truth in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with baal and his house, and have done unto him according to the work of his hands,
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel stood over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied.
And he spake also unto the men of Peniel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah, and I will pray for you unto Jehovah.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not obeyed my voice.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall be no evil upon thee for this thing.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Now shall I be more upright than the Philistines, though I do them a provocation.
But he that was not numbered by them, receiveth the tenth of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promise.
And Shammah the son said, With the jaw of an ass, heaps upon heaps, I have slain a thousand of a ass.
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
Cursed thou thyself, saith the angel of Jehovah, curse ye the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
And Saul said unto his servants, Give me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
Now therefore stand, that I may reason with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he did unto you and to your fathers.
And with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?
And the king said unto her, Fear not; for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods going up out of the earth.
And when Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly feared.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
For they that were once glorified, and had tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
And the men of the guard answered Jonathan and his armourbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show thee a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armourbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And David said moreover, Jehovah that delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the mouth of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And the people returned unto Benjamin, because the Lord had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And the heart of the priest was glad, and took the ephod, and the images, and the graven images, and went in among the people.
And he said unto them, I will not reign over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah will reign over you.
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my law into their heart, and in their heart will I write them;
Neither is any thing that is not seen in his sight: but all things are naked, and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day, and the battle passed over to Beth-aven.
And the children of Israel strengthened themselves, and set up their battle in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he rose up against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Japhlet, which he sent him.
While it is said, To day shalt thou hear his voice, harden not your heart as in the provocation.
And it came to pass after him, that after him, the son of Bethlehem, the son of Bethlehem, judged Israel.
And David left his chariot in the hand of the guard, and ran into the camp, and came and saluted his brethren.
And by reason of this ought he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
For he testifieth, thou art a priest unto ever after the order of Malchijah.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and those that were on the other side of the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David beheld the place where Saul was, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay in the wall, and the people encamped round about him.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul answered, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not in the days appointed; and the Philistines came together at Michmash.
For they verily have a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our sakes, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him before seeing that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, and the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is he also among the prophets?
And thou shalt say, Because Jehovah hath given me up to Zebah and to Zalmunna, I will break thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with thorns.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; wherefore I will not deliver you any more.
And the olive tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith they honor God and man, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And their iniquities and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And it came to pass, when they had eaten at Shiloh, that they had been drunken; and, behold, the priest was sitting upon a seat of the house of Jehovah.
And he returned to Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with the sword and with the sword: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hands.
And it came to pass, when the man arose to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father's father, the father's father, and said unto him, Behold, the day draweth to the evening, I pray thee, tarry all night: behold, the day is come to an end, that thy heart may be merry; and to morrow arise thou early on thy way, that thou mayest go home.
And Phinehas his wife, the wife of Phinehas, was with child near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father was dead, and her husband died, she bowed herself and gave birth; for her pangs came upon her.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against the children of Ammon, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he smote them whithersoever he turned.
Wherefore he is able also to deliver them unto the uttermost parts of God by him, seeing he liveth to make intercession for them.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead; and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, The Lord hath sent me to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of Jehovah.
And God that begat them with signs and wonders, and with divers signs and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his will?
looking diligently, that any man may fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness come up against thee, and that it be many.
Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of the land, nor the inhabitants of Sela; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.
And Saul said unto his servant, Come, let us go, and let us go; and they went into the city of the man of God.
And he said, This shall be the way of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and for his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots.
For the service of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah set up, and not man.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
And the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
that every tongue may confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And the children of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.
And he smote the king of the Amalekites with them, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
For every high priest that is separated from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both things and sacrifice for sin.
This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand, and I will smite thee, and I will take thine head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowl of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she made him to shave off the seven hair of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went out from him.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And the chief of the Philistines said, What meanest these Hebrews here? and he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
And she said unto Shammah the son, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me a lie: tell me, that thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou be cut off the veil of my head with the house.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the high priest of our confession, Christ Jesus;
And David sent forth ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to the Carmelite; and salute him in my name.
and the peace of God, which passeth through all understanding, shall keep your hearts and mind through Christ Jesus.
And Israel came up from thence, and went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And when he was come to a troop, the Philistines cried against him; and the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and the cords that were upon his hands were as flax that was burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die: for he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and he hath cut down the Asherah that was by it.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with staves? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
Do all things without murmuring and reasoning.
And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
Speak no more with excellency; Let not the pomp of thy mouth proceed out of thy mouth: For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, And by him is the work of his hands.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee; neither is there any rock like our God.
And when the men of Israel fled in the battle, Benjamin began to smite and kill the men of Israel about thirty souls: for they said, Surely they are smitten before us as in the first battle.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and thou shalt still prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses.
Behold, here am I, witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken? or whom have I robbed? and who have I afflicted? or of whose hand have I taken a bribe to blind mine eyes? And I will restore it.
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her with her bones, and sent her into all the coasts of Israel.
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey dropped; but no man put his hand to his mouth: for the people feared the oath.
For our life is in heaven, and from whence we wait for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
By faith they passed through the Red Sea, as by the dry land, which the Egyptians forbade.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he sware; and she knew no man: and it was a custom in Israel.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of Belial, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Go after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail.
And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the wool, and there was dew upon all the earth.
So David arose, and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and gave them to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Pui, Meraiah, and Phinehas, were slain.
For the Holy Spirit also is a witness unto us, for after that he had said before,
( For the priests were made without an oath, but the oath by him that said unto him, The Lord hath sworn, and will not repent: thou art a priest for ever after the manner of Malchijah.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, and Shammah the son. And he awoke from his sleep, and said, I will go forth as at another time before, and I will shake myself. And he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
and to them that were in Aroer, and unto them that were in Midian, and unto them that were in Eshtemoa,
And Saul said unto his servant, But behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we?
And when he had made the tribe of Benjamin come near by their families, the family of the fathers was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken; and when they sought him, he could not be found.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Shushan, king of Syria; and the children of Israel served for eight years.
for the first day your fellowship is from the first day.
And Deborah said unto the Cushite, Arise; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thine hand: is not Jehovah gone out before thee? And he went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the commandment, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
according to my expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so also Christ also shall be exalted in my body, whether it be by life or by death.
And as touching the matter that thou, and I have spoken, behold, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And Jehovah said unto David, By the three hundred men that are left, I will save thee, and deliver the Midianites into thine hand; and let all the people go every man unto his place.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render their heads; and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed, with a hairy head of goats' hair for his sake.
For this cause he is the mediator of the new covenant, that by death, for the redemption of the transgressions that are under the first covenant, those that are called to receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
But ye have well done, that ye have part with my affliction.
And the children of Dan went away: and when Micaiah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned to his house.
When thou art departed from me to day, thou shalt find two men by the sepulchre of Rachel, in the border of Benjamin, at Zilpah; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, behold, thy father hath left the eyes of the asses, and make ready for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were again again unto Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And when she was old, she heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that were assembled at the door of the tent of meeting.
And Saul encamped in the mount of Paran, which is before the wilderness; but David abode in the wilderness; and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and destroyed the children of Israel that day twenty thousand men.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And the son said unto his father, Get her for me, for she pleaseth me well.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went toward the north, and said unto them, Wherefore pass thou over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put his head upon his head, and covered it with a girdle.
And on that day he called him Jerubbesheth, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath cast down his altar.
And he said unto them, Sacrifice and offering, and burnt offerings, and offering for sin, thou wouldest not desire, nor desire therein; for it is made by the law.
And he had a chain of brass upon his head; and he was girded with a coat of mail; and the weight of the robe was five thousand shekels of brass.
And the men of Israel returned, and the men of Benjamin marvelled: for they saw that evil was come upon them.
Now there was a man of Ramah Rehoboth by the mountain Ephraim, and Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Shimea, the son of Toah, a Benjamite;
Not because I desire a gift: but I desire that I may abound unto you.
For as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself also took part of the same: that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil.
Now therefore consider how great this man was, unto whom the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth part of the spoil.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: wherefore they called that place Joktheel unto this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's flock at Bethlehem.
There is honorable age in all, and the bed is pure: but God judgeth the adulterer and the adulterers.
And it came to pass, when the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, they said unto her, David sent us unto thee, to take thee to wife.
And Saul took him that day, and let him go no more to his father's house.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah, and asked the Lord, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
praying for us; for we trust we have a good conscience in all things, in all things that are good.
Do not be instructed with other customs, for it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats, which hath not attained to them that have been occupied therein.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate, and rose up, and went away that night.
And Saul went on this side of the mount, and David and his men on that side of the mount; and David made haste to recover Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
Let thy conversation be without covetousness; and be satisfied with such things as ye have; for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
And when the man arose to depart, his father besought him, and he lodged there again.
I sent him therefore, that when ye see him again ye shall rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all that was to break his head.
And the priest's custom was before the people, that when every one offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came, and the flesh was in his hand, with a hook of three teeth in his hand;
Who through faith hath subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, hath sworn, stopped the mouth of lions.
And they cried unto the children of Dan; and they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, unto day, if ye will hear his voice,
And behold, I will send a young man, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon this side of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no harm: as Jehovah liveth.
And we desire that every one of you should shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end:
And they gathered themselves to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
By faith we know that the world is made by the word of God, that things which are seen were not made of things which are seen.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass through thy land into my place.
The river of the river overflowed them, The ancient river, the river of the river; Thou hast trodden down strength.
And if any man say unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat at once, and then take as much as thy soul desireth; then he would answer him, nay; but if not, I will take it by force.
For God is my record, how much I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, who dwelt in the mountain, and in the south, and in the valley.
Let nothing be done through strife, or in glory; but in humility let each man esteem more better than himself.
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I should go quickly to the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall faint from me, to seek me any more in any land of Israel: so shall I escape from his hand.
And they inclosed the children of Benjamin round about, and chased them, and smote them with ease upon Gibeah toward the sunrising.
Neither shall they teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.
But as we have begun to be, let us walk by the same reign, let us also consider the same thing.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
But that ye may abide in the flesh more need for you.
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withheld thee from coming to shed blood, and from vengeance with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord be as the wife of Nabal.
then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
And thou shalt say unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak, but this time I will speak: I pray thee, but this time with the fleece of the fleece: let it be dried up upon the wool, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
And Ehud stretched forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right shoulder, and cast it into his belly.
that God was able to raise him up from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
So that all that fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword: all these were valiant men.
And David sware, and said, Thy father knoweth that I have found grace in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is only a breach between me and death.
And Samuel said, How can I go? If he hear it, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
when your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.
And she said unto Shammah, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me falsehood: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mayest be bound.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the stronghold in En Gedi.
And he shall take thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, and the best of them, and give them to his servants.
Wherefore God hath exalted him, And hath given him a name that is above every name:
Is not this David of whom they sang one to another, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
I beseech thee, I beseech thee, the chief captain of the earth, I beseech thee, that thou wouldest be of the same mind in the Lord.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be in thee; and Saul my father knoweth.
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him; and many were overthrown, and wounded, even unto the entering of the gate.
and say unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppress you.
And Saul said, Make haste among the people, and say unto them, Bring me here every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and slay them here, and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
Now therefore, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may serve Jehovah.
And six hundred men turned and fled into the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock for four months.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of the Temanites, whose name was called by name.
They that were full have hired themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceased, that the barren had begotten seven; and she that hath many children is waxed feeble.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Jakeh, the son of Zerahiah, the son of Kemuel, the son of Benjamin, a mighty man of valour.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the mixture. And he did so.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me: the Lord judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was a prophet of Jehovah.
Now therefore, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired; and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
Behold, ye are all children of Israel: Give ye counsel and counsel.
And ye shall cry in that day because of thy king, which ye have chosen; and Jehovah will not hear thee in that day.
And the men of Shechem set a lie in wait for him in the top of the mountains, and they robbed all that came by them; and it was told Abimelech.
of the doctrine of baptism, and of putting on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Geshurites, and the Amalekites: for the nations were of old men of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
For unto us was the glad tidings preached, as well as unto them; but the word was not profitable unto them, but they were not mingled with faith in them that heard it.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked God, saying, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up to Samuel.
And Adoni-zedek said, There were threescore thousand and ten kings, having their thumbs and toes, and they gathered their meat under my table: as I have done, so God hath recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
For indeed he was sick in death: but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also upon me, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou hast spoken unto me.
And to him that sweareth he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?
For it is God, who worketh in you both to do, and to do of his good pleasure.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
and thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry until I come unto thee, and show thee what thou shalt do.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember that Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die; lest he go into the battle, and perish.
Now the righteous shall live by faith: but if any man go, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near to one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell us, saying, So did David; and so shall he do all the time when he dwelleth in the land of the Philistines.
And Heber, the wife of Heber, took a hammer of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nails in his houses, and put it in the ground; for he was fast and weary, and died.
And he smote it into the pan, and the pot, and the pot, and the pot, and the pot; and all that the plague brought up the priest took for himself. And they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came thither.
From henceforth wait till his enemies be made his footstool.
Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will no more do thee hurt, because my soul is precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have gone astray.
And it was told unto the giant, saying, Behold, Jonathan is come hither. And they compassed him about, and lay wait for him all night in the gate, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my law into their heart, and write them in their hearts; and I will be unto them a God, and they shall be unto me a people.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God is taken.
And as Samuel turned away to depart, he laid hold on the hem of his garment, and it rent.
For as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die; but there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
Now therefore make a new cart, and take two golden kine, on which there is not a yoke, and bind the kine to the cart, and bring their cattle away from them:
And it shall be, that in the morning, when the sun is lifted up, thou shalt rise early and set upon the city; and, behold, he and the people that are with him come out against thee, then do unto them as thou shalt find occasion.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
And we will take ten men of an hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, that they may bring forth bread for the people, that they may come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
Therefore I have lent him unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth, he shall be made to Jehovah; and he bowed down before Jehovah.
If thy father is at all missing me, say, I pray thee, let David go out from me, that he may run to Bethlehem his city: for there is a year offering for all the house of Israel.
And his fellow answered, and said, This is nothing except the sword of the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for God hath delivered into his hand the Midianites, and all the host.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words, and their heart clave to Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
For our God is a consuming fire.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the children of Israel gave place to the children of Benjamin, because they trusted in the lie which they set at Gibeah.
And do not forget the good things of the strangers; for by reason of that which there were no more angels in vain.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And the wife of Jehoiada the wife wept before him, and said, Thou hast hated me, and hast not loved me: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told it. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father or my mother, and I tell it thee.
And it came to pass, when thou heardest the dream, and the interpretation thereof, and the interpretation thereof, and he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered into your hand the camp of Midian.
Let us therefore now come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace in time of need.
And it came to pass, as she rode upon the ass, that she came down by the den upon the mountain; and, behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And they went up into the city; and when they had come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, to go up to the high place.
And David said unto him, Whom art thou? And where art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, for three days I fell sick.
And when they were a good way out of the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses of the house of Micah were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
and in no fear of your adversaries, which is unto them a sign of destruction, but unto you of salvation and of God.
But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he was beaten in the prison house.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And it came to pass, that he rose early on the morrow, and thrust the wool together, and lay the dew from the fleece, a vessel full of water.
And did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon my altar, to burn incense, to burn incense before me? and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offerings of the fire of the children of Israel.
And he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto the asses; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel: and the land had rest fourscore years.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They are always estranged in their heart; and they know not my ways.
And the man, and Elkanah, and all his household went up to offer unto Jehovah the annual burnt offering, and his vow.
And he sprinkled with blood the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service.
And turn ye not aside; for then ye shall go after vanity, which can not profit, nor deliver; for they are vain.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, and were joined together as one man.
and thou shalt see an enemy in my dwelling-place, in all the riches which God shall give Israel: and there shall not be an old man in thine house for ever.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that is the shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And they drew up their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And others were accused of kings and of hundreds, and also of chains and of bonds,
If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: make us a king to judge us, as all the nations.
And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, shew me a sign, that thou speakest with me.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and in those days the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day all their inheritance fell not unto them among the tribes of Israel.
that the violence of the seventy men of Ammon might come, and their blood shall be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, who helped him in the blood of his brethren.
And Memucan came unto him, and he sat in the summer, which he had for himself alone: and said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from his throne.
And they took the things which Micah had made, and the priest that he had, and came unto Laish unto a people that were at quiet and safe; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array in Baal Tamar: and the people of Israel came out of their place, out of the pastures of Gibeah.
And three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock, and said to Shammah son, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are princes over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron, and it came to pass, as the ark of God came unto Ekron, that the Ekron cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay us and our people.
But I beseech you to do this, that I may be returned unto you shortly.
And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such thing or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider, take counsel, and speak your heart.
And Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou didst not call us not, when thou wentest to fight against the Midianites? And they contended with him roughly.
Then said Samuel, Wherefore do thou ask me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
But the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
And it came to pass, when the prince of the city heard the words of Rimmon the son of Shelemiah, that his anger was kindled.
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines a full year and four months.
Now therefore arise, thou and the people that are with thee, and lie in wait in the field;
For it is not that the blood of the bulls and the goats shall take away sins.
But there remaineth a rest unto the people of God.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty cups, and lamps within the vessels.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me back again to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise; and Saul sent messengers again, and they prophesied also.
And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no meat the second day; for he was grieved for David; for his father had done him ashamed.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Shimei, and Malchijah, and the names of his two daughters: the name of Michal the first-born, and the name of the younger Michal.
And he tarried seven days, according to the time that Samuel had appointed; but Samuel came not unto Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
The Lord killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of the valley, but they found them not; and they passed through the land of Elim, and there they were not; and he passed through the land of Benjamin, but they found them not.
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Arise, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength; and as for Zebah, and for Zebah, and for Zalmunna, and put away the ornaments of their camels.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David.
And David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off; and there was a great space between them.
Therefore Jehovah left the nations, and did not drive them out; neither delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill, to set them among princes, to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And Jehovah sent thee on a journey, and said, Go, and utterly destroy the sinners of the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? For they had made a great oath against him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and went, and two men with him; and they came to the woman by night; and he said, I pray thee, O God, by the spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall call unto thee.
and the gold also, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, the five cities of the Philistines, and the fortified cities, and the villages, even unto the great stone of Abel, whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah; which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of Joshua, the Beth-mite.
And smote the king, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped by the well of the valley; and the tents of the Midianites were on the left side of the valley of Moreh.
And he shall take thy bondmen, and thy maidservants, and thy young men, and thy asses, and put them unto his work.
And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah shewed himself to Samuel in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: but with me thou shalt be in safety.
And the king said, Call thee therefore, whose son the king is.
And the women answered one another, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And he said unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what pleaseth thee.
Have they not gone up? have they not divided the prey, to every man a young woman or two, to Sisera a prey of divers colours, a prey of divers colours, of divers colours on both sides, to meet for the neck of them that take the spoil?
And unto Hananiah he gave a portion; for he loved Hananiah, but Jehovah shut up her womb.
And David said unto his servants, Gird ye on every man his sword; and they girded every man his sword; and David girded with his sword; and David went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred souls by the vessels.
And of the sons of David, Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were both of them.
And David dwelt with him in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelite.
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Turn, and slay the priests of Jehovah: for their hand also is with David; and they knew that he fled, and showed it not unto me: but the servants of the king would not put forth their hand upon the priests of Jehovah.
and the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they heard, that the word should not be spoken unto them any more.
And when he had restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, his mother said, I have wholly dedicated the silver unto Jehovah out of my hand for my son, to make a graven image and molten image: now therefore will I restore it unto thee.
For when ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, who are the firstfruits of the oracles of God; and they are become like milk, and not of strength.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together with their armies, and gathered themselves together in their tents, which belongeth to Judah, and set up between them, and encamped between them and Azekah.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor: yet what I shall choose I do not know.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Gilead there.
Lest there be any whoremonger, or profane man, as Esau, who for one piece of meat sold his birthright.
Then shalt thou go out from thence, and thou shalt come to the valley of Tabor; and there shall meet thee three men going up to Bethel, one bearing three young goats, and one bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
And the man of the house went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly: seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul there that day stood before Jehovah; and his name was called of Edom, the chiefest of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
And there came upon the mount ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel; and the battle was sore; but they knew not that evil was near them.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out, and came in before them.
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? for that which was once purified should have had no more conscience of sins.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now Jehovah hath established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
And they rose up early; and it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out from them, he and Samuel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass after they went forth, that David was wiser than all the servants of Saul; and his name was very great.
But Saul did not say any thing that day: for he thought, that a thing hath befallen him; he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
For they that speak such things speak plainly to seek a country.
And more also do God also unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all things pertaining to him by the morning light, every one that hath any pleasure in the wall.
For I am able to do all things through the Christ which strengtheneth me.
And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as Aaron.
For they could not bear that which was commanded: and if so much as a beast touched the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart.
And this will we do, if God suffer.
And Saul armed David with his armor, and put a chain of brass upon his head; and he girded him with a coat of mail.
And Saul said, They have brought them out of the Amalekites; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that declareth me, that my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of thee that is sorry for me, and hath declared unto me that my son hath provoked me to lie in wait, as at this day.
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our portion shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him?
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all your heart, and put away the foreign gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the name of the daughters of Heber shall be blessed above women, and the Kenites shall be blessed above women in the tent.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the camp; for I have delivered it into thine hand.
Remember those that are in bonds, as bound with them; and those that suffer evil, as being yourselves in the body.
And the Philistines were subdued, and they went not again to the coasts of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
They chose new gods, and war in the gates: there was a shield, and a spear, among forty thousand in Israel.
They shall perish, but thou remainest; And they all shall wax old as a garment.
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto the king, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
For a little while, and he that cometh shall come, and shall not tarry.
And he turned again from thence into Gilgal, and said, I have a secret tidings unto thee, O king: who said, Keep silence; and all that stood by him went out from him.
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of the king of Gath.
For I have no man in the heart of any man, That he may have respect for you.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth; but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
But Jonathan heard not when his father commanded the people: wherefore he put forth the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
And all Israel heard that Saul had smitten the Philistines, and that Israel also had been in abomination with the Philistines; and the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, And who is faithful among all thy servants, as David, who is the king's son in law, and goeth at thy commandment, and is honorable in thine house?
And Jesse called his name Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And David rose up, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Elasah the king of Gath.
And Samuel rose, and went up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the men that were present with him, about six hundred men.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah raised up judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it repented the Lord for their sakes, because of them that oppressed them, and vexed them.
And she dwelt under the palm tree of Rebekah, between Ramah and Bethel, in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And master made him a sword, which had two corners, one cubit long; and he girded it under his garments upon his right thigh.
And as for raiment shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed; but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and saddled the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed himself to the ground;
Let not my lord, I pray thee, consider this man of Belial, even the wife of Nabal: for as his name is, so is he; and folly is with him; but I thine handmaid have not seen the young men of my lord, whom thou sentest.
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt; neither came we any thing, as long as we were with them, when we were in the field.
Know ye that Timotheus our brother is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see thee.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man to his tribe, and to his house; and they went forth from thence every man to his inheritance.
Neither did Naphtali cast out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Ramah; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Bethshemesh, and the inhabitants thereof were forced to work for them.
But it displeased Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that went into the house of Dagon, nor walked upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Sochoh, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of a moth, nor of Achzib, nor of Debir, nor of Rehob, nor of Rehob.
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him; and so it was, because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
And when the children of Israel saw that they were in trouble, the people were troubled; and they hid themselves in the caves, and in the thick places, and in the rocks, and in the high places, and in their holes.
And he made a ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even in the city of Ophrah; and all Israel went there a whoring after it; and it became a snare unto the king, and to his house.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto the wife of Jonathan the son of Shammah, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to possess that we have? Is it not so?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and gathered after him; and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
And Samuel was dead; and all Israel had mourned him, and they buried him in Ramah, even in his own city: and Saul had put away the mediums and the wizards out of the land.
And of all this people there were seven hundred chosen men left, every one to cast stones upon their heads, and they were not missing.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not deliver you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And they went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness; so that there is nothing left of all that pertained unto him; and he hath rewarded me evil for good.
For if the blood of oxen and of goats, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkle the unclean, sanctify to the cleansing of the flesh;
And David said unto the king, If I have found grace in thine eyes, let them give me a place in the land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the king's city with thee?
that my bonds may be known in Christ in all the house, and in all places.
And Saul's servants spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it to thee a light to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, and despised?
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and departed from off Saul.
Then went up all the children of Israel, and all the people, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until evening, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when the Edomites were there, that he would tell Saul: I have sought the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way that Jehovah hath sent me, and have brought down Amalek the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed Amalek.
And the weight of the golden rings that he asked was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, and of gold, and of purple, and of purple, that were upon the kings of Midian, and with the chains round about their camels.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron; and the name of Hebron before was called Hebron; and they slew thence of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him a king.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto the Kenites, Behold, there come men down from the top of the mountains. And the Kenite said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains, as if they were men.
For this cause I hope to send shortly, that I may shortly see how it shall go with me.
And Saul sent messengers unto David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning; and Michal the wife of David told him, saying, If thou deliver not thy life to night, tomorrow thou shalt be slain.
And they tarried until they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the man's doors. So they took the key, and opened them; and, behold, their master was fallen dead upon the earth.
And as Samuel was offering the burnt-offerings, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: and Jehovah thundered with a great thunder that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And he smote the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Heli.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul, when he heard the tidings, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went upon smiting one another.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, and said, The son of Shimea the son of the Maachathite, because he took his wife, and delivered her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
But if ye still do evil, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our house hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favour in thine eyes, let me go and see my brethren: therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.
saying, Verily I will bless thee, and I will greatly multiply thee.
For when Moses had commanded all the words of the people according to the law, he took the blood of bullocks, and of goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book, and all the people.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them; and the men of Penuel answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered him.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor, the captain of his host, to Sisera, and to the chief of the Gentiles.
And David kept his servants with these words, and did not let them rise up against Saul: but Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And blessed be thy counsel, and blessed be thou, that hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and that I may avenge myself with my own hand.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite the people, and slew them, as at other times, in the highways, where one went up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of the children of Israel.
but the chief priest, even the high priest, went up to him once, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the error of the people.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Tarry, I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say thou on.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they dwelt with him all the time when David was in the guard.
And his father in law, the father's father, spared him; and he abode with him three days: so they fasted and drank, and lodged there.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be well.
She shall not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her let her keep.
If there be any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any of his bowels and mercy,
For Israel and the Philistines had prepared the battle in array against the host.
and I will go and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.
And Samuel executed Israel all the days of his life.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, and there were two thousand men with Saul in Michmash, and in mount Bethel, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people sent every man unto his tent.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the temple, and made them sit in the uppermost place among them that were invited, who were about thirty souls.
And thou shalt not only pass before me, but shew me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not:
Then said David, O Jehovah God of Israel, thy servant hath heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he fled after them; and he pursued them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
And they said, What shall be the trespass offering, which we shall return unto him? They answered, five golden instruments, and five of gold, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon your nobles.
And he said unto his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the anointed of Jehovah, to stretch out my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
So David went, and he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook, and where they that were left behind were.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new cords, which are not occupied, then shall I be weak, and be like another man.
