And the priest's servant shall come and say unto the man that offereth the offering, Give me of the flesh of the flesh to be prepared for the priest: he hath not eaten bread boiled in water, but he hath boiled it.
And Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, and were troubled, and fear.
And they passed over, and went on; and the sun went upon them at Gibeah, which is to Benjamin.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan answered him, and said, I have eaten a little honey with the edge of the staff that was in mine hand, and behold, I die.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him a captain over a thousand men; and he went out, and came in before the people.
And David said unto him, What have I done now? I asked thee a question.
For there were openly reproved both to reproach and to tribulation, and to those who were partakers of this manner.
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered into the stronghold of the house of Laadan.
And they said unto them, I and my people were in great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye did not deliver me out of their hands.
And turn ye not aside; for then ye shall go after vanity, which can not profit, nor deliver; for they are vain.
And he shall offer for the people for the sin of the people, and for the sin of his soul.
And he said unto him, We are passing from Bethlehem, even from the hill-country of Ephraim, and I came to Bethlehem, to the house of the Lord, to the house of Jehovah; and there is none taken into his house.
And Jehovah gave them up into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the captain of the host was as Sisera, who dwelt in the hand of the nations.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out, and came in before them.
And there remaineth a house of separation unto the people of God,
Awake, aha, awake; awake, awake, and utter a song; arise, arise, and take away thy captivity, thou son of Abinadab.
And the bands of the Philistines went out from the camp of the Philistines in three companies: and a man went on the way unto Ophrah, to the land of Titus.
And Saul said, Thus shalt ye say unto David, The king desireth not any more dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And when he came, he sat by the way, watching, and in his heart was afraid for the ark of God. And when he entered into the city, there was a great cry.
And the sword returned again, and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote them, and they fled before him.
and we smote the south part of the land of the Philistines, and the land of Judah, and the south of Caleb; and we put fire on the south.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor, the captain of the host, to Sisera, and to the chief of the Gentiles.
who serve unto the pattern and the shadow of the heavens; as it was told Moses, when he was to finish the tabernacle, behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern which was shewn thee on the mountain.
And as they went up the hill to the city, they found young women going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And inasmuch as it is not without an oath, ( for the people were made priests without an oath);
And Saul said, No man shall be put to death this day: for Jehovah this day hath wrought salvation in Israel.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and there was a Levite in the hill-country of Ephraim, who took a concubine of Bethlehem for himself.
Shall the princes of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, God of Israel, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
Therefore, saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, if I say that your house and the house of your father should walk before me for ever, saith Jehovah, even far from me, I will honor them, and they that fear me will I honor; but I will despise them.
And the Philistines looked, and saw David, and despised him; for he was a youth, and was tender, with a fair countenance.
And the king sat at his throne, as before, and the seat by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul; but David's place was empty.
But I trust in Jehovah that I also will come shortly.
And she said, My lord, as long as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that prayed unto Jehovah by thy side.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host fled, and cried, and fled.
I also also in Thessalonica once, and also twice ye sent unto me for my need.
And Moses was afraid, and said, I am full of fear and trembling.
And it came to pass, when David saw that Saul had gone out to seek his life, that David was in the wilderness of Ziph at Hormah.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain; and they found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and thorns; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Behold, all ye children of Israel, Consider and give me counsel.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred young virgins, who had not known man by lying with him; and they brought them to the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under the river.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
And she spake in her heart, and her lips fell, but her voice was not heard at all: as it was, Eli, supposing her to be drunken,
And they sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?
And Saul dwelt in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranates, which was in the name of the Zarhites; and the people were about six hundred men.
For as the sin of them that make idols, and the molten images, and the molten image, and the molten images, because ye have cast away from you the word of Jehovah, he hath put thee from thy place as king.
And I also have lent him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, that he may be lent unto Jehovah. And they worshipped Jehovah there: and she prayed, and said,
But when Jesus had made a sin-offering for ever, he took his place at the right hand of God;
but come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heaven of hosts, and unto the multitude of angels.
who, being in the likeness of God, thought it not stolen with God:
And the children of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said unto them, Why hast thou passed over against the children of Ammon, and have not called us to go with thee? we will burn thy house round about thee with fire.
Not that I seek the gift; but I seek the fruit that shall abound unto your account.
And it came to pass at that time, that he tarried still in his place, and now his eyes were dim, so that he could not see.
and thou shalt see the affliction of my habitation, in all the riches which I will give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And the words, even more, make it clear that there shall be some things which are shaken, as of things that are made, that there may be only those things which are not shaken.
Be not anxious, but in every thing, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your supplication be made known unto God.
And he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And he took his army, and divided it into three companies, and laid an ambush in the field: and seeing that the people came out of the city, he rose and set upon them.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, and Abimelech hired with them vanity and wanton men; and they followed him.
Be thou mindful of them that are leading you, who speak unto you the word of God, whose faith is according to the manner of life,
And Saul arose, and went down into the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony unto the things that were spoken.
And Jehovah said unto him, But I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite Midian as one man.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give ye bread to my people, for they are weary; I will go after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah again; come down, and bring it up unto you.
who, being mindful of his glory, and the glory of his substance, and maketh all things by the word of his power, having made for himself the cleansing of sins, set himself down upon the right hand of the glory on high,
For as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself also took part of the same: that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil.
And all the children of Israel went out, and the assembly was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpah.
And the children of Benjamin went out to meet the people; and they drew them away from the city, and smote the people with slaughter, as before, on the highway, that goeth up to Bethel, the other to Gibeah; and in the field there were about thirty men of Israel.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man to his tent; and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be barren among women; and Samuel shall cut him in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But we can not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to the children of Benjamin.
But the high priest came unto the high priest, to come, a greater and perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that should say, not of this building.
But ye rejoice in the same way, and rejoice in my joy.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Until thou mourn over Saul, and I have cast him away from Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee unto Jesse the Gittite, for I have seen among his sons a king.
For Jehovah will not cast away his people for his great name's sake; for it hath pleased Jehovah to make thee his people.
for the first day of the gospel, until now.
And the servants of old said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? Is it not for this one that they sing in the dance, saying, Saul slew his thousands, but David his ten thousands?
who serve the veil and the shadow of the heavens, as Moses was instructed when he began to finish the tabernacle; for he saith, Take heed to it, that thou make all things according to the pattern which was shewn thee on the mount.
And when he restored the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to a silversmith, who made an image and molten image out of it: it was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; for the children of Israel came to Benjamin, because they trusted in the ambush, whom they had set against Gibeah.
And Saul was very wroth, and it displeased him, and said, They have magnified David ten thousands; but to me have they divided thousands: what more can he have but the kingdom?
And David went to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off, and the distance was great between them.
not according to the covenant which I made unto their fathers in the day of my taking their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: because they kept not my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when the city was told, that the son of Jonathan was come, and they compassed the place, and lay in wait for him all night in the gate: and they kept silent all night, saying, We will tarry until the morning light, and we will kill him.
And the Holy Spirit also beareth us witness, because it was said,
But ye know his experience, that as a child with a father he ministered unto me for the gospel.
And Joseph went up against Bethel, and Jehovah was with them.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel; and Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped by them; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days, that we may send men to every part of Israel: and then, if no man come to us, we will come out unto you.
having now tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come.
And when he had set the rods upon fire, he let them go into the midst of the land of the Philistines, and burned up the desolation, and the standing corn, with the vineyards and the oil.
And they said, Who is it of all the tribes of Israel, that came not up to the Lord unto Mizpah; and, behold, the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead were found not to be in the host.
If ye endure instruction, God dealeth with you as with children; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
And Saul said unto his servant, A good thing is good: come, let us go. And they went into the city of the man of God.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bore his armor, Come, let us go over to the camp of these uncircumcised; and it shall be that Jehovah will work for us: for there is no restraint in Jehovah to save by many or few.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: make us a king to judge us as all the nations.
Neither did they favour the house of Baal, that is, of Baal, according to all the good that he did for Israel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn over Saul, whom I have cast off from Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and come, that I may send thee to Jesse the Shumite; for I have given me a king among his sons.
And he took up the mantle of a ass, which was dead, and saw it on the earth, and slew a thousand men with it.
And it came to pass, when Baal-Hanan the son of Shelemiah went out, and took his place in the gate, that Abimelech and his people arose from the place where they waited.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us: for there hath not been such a thing before.
For if the first was without blemish, there was no place sought for the second.
And Deborah, and Penuel, the son of Abinadab, were on that day.
Salute all your rulers, and all the saints; they from Italy salute you.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and his armor after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armor killed them after him.
If a man pass over against his enemy, will he let him be delivered? So shall ye be blessed by Jehovah for what thou hast done unto me this day.
And the Philistines came together to make war against Israel, three thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people like the sand of the sea: they came up, and rose in Michmash, to the east of Beth-aven.
And David girded his sword above his long robe, and began to go; for he had not sought. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these, for I had not tried. And David turned them away from him.
And Samuel went after Saul; and Saul bowed down before Jehovah.
I exhort them also to be of the same mind, to be of the same mind in the Lord.
And Saul came out of the field, and drove the oxen before him; and he said, Why are the people weeping? And they told him what the men of Jabesh had said.
And now stand ye yourselves, and see this great thing which Jehovah doeth before your eyes;
For every house is built by another; but he that built all things is God.
And Abdon the son of Dodai the Pirathonite died; and they buried the Pirathonite in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.
And the men of Ashdod saw it, saying, The ark of the God of Israel shall not dwell with us; for his hand is heavy upon us, and our god Dagon.
not in envy, nor in pride; but in the hardness of the flesh let every man take another to be better than himself;
This is what we will do unto Gibeah: We will go up against it by the judgment of Jehovah.
Do not increase arrogant words; Let no pride proceed from thy mouth; For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, whose works are not weighed.
And Saul perceived the voice of David, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, My voice, my lord, O king.
And all Israel heard that Saul had smitten the Philistines, and that Israel also had been in abomination with the Philistines; and the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And they smote Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all strong and able men; and there was none escaped.
For if the first were without blemish, a place was not sought for a second.
And Saul went up into his house at Gibeah; and the army went with him, and the heart of God was with him.
And after this he loved a woman, who dwelt in the valley of Sirah; and she was called the name of the valley.
And he said, Here am I, for thou didst call me. And Eli knew that the Lord called the child, and said unto Samuel, Go and sleep; and if he will call thee any more, thou shalt say, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. And Samuel went and slept in his stead.
And the men of Israel were troubled that day; for Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread till it is evening, and I am avenged on mine enemies. And none of the people tasted bread.
And he shall take the tithe of thy sheep, and ye shall be his servants.
And when she heard the voice of the cry, he said, What is the noise of this uproar? The man hasted, and came and told him, saying,
Speak, I pray thee, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, which is good for you, and the king over you of seventy men, and all the sons of Jerubbesheth, or the king over you; and ye shall remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
and Jehovah will give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me; and the Lord will give the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And the carcase of these beasts, whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest, shall be burned without the camp.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Far be it from it! As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
Let not my lord hearken unto this worthless man, the Carmelite: for as his name is, so is he; and the Carmelite is with him; but I, thy servant, did not see my lord's young men, whom thou sentest.
And said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, and did not utterly cast them out.
And the trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive tree, Be thou over us.
For they verily gave us punishment for a little while, as it pleased them; but he did it for our sakes, that we might be holy as he is.
But as it is for men to die, and after this, judgment,
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, set themselves in the assembly of the children of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew the sword.
Thou shalt make a molten image for the idols, and for the molten images, which shall destroy the land; and thou shalt give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand upon thee, and upon thy gods, and upon thy land.
And his brethren spake all these words concerning him to all the nobles of Shechem; and they helped Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great things of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
Wherefore ye make a molten image for yourselves, and molten images of your abominations, that destroy the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
And after him came Jair the Gileadite, who ruled over Israel for twenty years.
And he said unto her, If thou goest with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And he said, How can I go? If Saul heard, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer from the herd with thee, and say, I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels: Thou gavest him a crown of glory and honor, And made him ruler over all the works of thy hands.
And they smote that day the Philistines from Michmash to foot; and the people were weary exceedingly.
by whom this poor body of ours shall be changed into the image of his glory, in the measure of the working wherewith he is able to put all things under himself.
And he said, I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: let us therefore, and come with me to the sacrifice; and he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Jonathan therefore gave his hands to the lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them into the city.
So then, my beloved and my beloved, my joy and my crown, stand fast in the Lord, ye beloved.
Now the first commandment had statutes for worship and the sanctuary.
She shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither shall she drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I have commanded her shall she observe.
The kings came, and fought; and the kings of Canaan fought; and the kings of Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, and they took no spoil in silver.
But the chariots went after the chariots, and the people unto the descent of the nations; and all the people of Sisera were put to the sword, and there was not a man left.
And he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto the asses; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
For it is necessary that the law of heaven should be cleansed with these things; but the things of the heavenly things are more than these.
Now therefore hear ye in the audience of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and trembling, let him return, and depart from the mount of Gilead. And about twenty thousand men returned, and ten thousand.
And David said unto Abishai, Slay him not: for who shall put forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and shall be guiltless?
And when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines came near against Israel; but at the thunder of Jehovah that day the Philistines were afraid, and they gave way before Israel.
By faith Abraham made an offering of Isaac, when he was tempted; and he with whom the covenant had been made, as an offering the only son of his body,
And David said, Jehovah, who hath delivered me from the hand of the lion and the bear, shall save me from the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And a man of Benjamin fled from the fight, and came to Shiloh the same day with his garments out of order and earth upon his head.
For our daughters we can not give them, being bound with an oath and a curse, whereby we said, Cursed be he that shall give Benjamin any of his daughters to wife.
For ye also had compassion on me in my chain, and rejoiced in the spoil of your goods, knowing that ye have for yourselves a good possession, and an enduring one in heaven.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped there; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah said, Judah goeth up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Am I to give up my substance of oil, by which men give glory to God, and cast down the trees?
I reckon all things to be but to the excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord: for whom I suffer the loss of all things, and counted them as dung, that I might gain Christ:
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more to weep.
And said unto him, Thus saith the parable, Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon:
And the princes of Succoth answered and said, Peradventure the hands of the hands of the hands of Solomon, and the hands of Solomon, are in thy hand; and thou hast asked that we should give bread unto thy army.
And the Philistines took the ark of God; and they brought it out of the hand of Ashdod.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
And the elders of the congregation said, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
And it came to pass on the eighth day, that the children of Israel were circumcised, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew Hebrew; and a certain man was circumcised.
And Samuel gave him a account of all things, and kept nothing. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do that which pleaseth him.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with the sword and with the sword: for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hands.
And Benjamin returned, and they gave them the women whom they had kept from the women of Gilead; but they were not sufficient for them.
Brethren, I regard myself not as having taken hold, but one thing I do. Remove the things that are behind, and set forward to the things which are before,
And the women sang, and said, I Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
I will give thanks unto my God upon all my remembrance of thee;
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us according to all that is good in thy sight: save us, we pray thee this day.
And David girded his sword upon his clothes, and sought to go; for he had not yet sought. And David said unto Saul, I can not go in these; for I have not tried. And David put them away.
And when he was come to the Jordan, he passed over; and he and the three hundred men with him were weary, and pursued.
And Jesse called his name Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel; and he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this one.
And it came to pass, when the spirit of the spirit of God came upon Saul, that David took his instrument, and made music; and the spirit came to Saul, and he prospered; and the evil spirit went away from him.
Give not therefore your hope which shall be great.
And Abimelech dwelt in the gate of Judah; and the children of Heth cast out his brethren out of Shechem.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And Jonathan said to the young man that bore his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the camp of these uncircumcised men, and let it be that Jehovah will do for us; for there is no restraint in Jehovah to save by many or few.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag the third day, that the Amalekites had spread on the South and in Ziklag, and they came to Ziklag, and burned it with fire.
And the lad came unto the place of the bow, which Jonathan had shot; and Jonathan called after the young man, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And he said unto his young, Run, I pray thee, find, I pray thee, the arrows that I shall shoot: the young man runneth, and he hath shot the arrow, and let him pass over.
and they said unto Tekoah, Come, and thou shalt be unto us for captain, and we will fight against the children of Ammon.
And the five men that went to spy out the land of Laish spake, and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and molten image? And now ye know what to do.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him exceedingly, and made him his armor.
And when thou comest to the Jordan, he passed over; and he, and the three hundred men that were with him, fainted, and pursued.
If he is able to fight with me, and prevailed against me, then we will be thy servants; but if I be able to overcome him, then thou shalt be our servants, and work for us.
For we have not a high priest that we should not vex ourselves with our infirmities, but tempted in all things, without sin.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee; neither is there any rock like our God.
And all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the children of the east, gathered themselves together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man to his tribe, and to his house; and they went forth from thence every man to his inheritance.
and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side; and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side; and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not go with thee: for thou hast put away from thee the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah hath put thee out from thy place as king over Israel.
For whom Jehovah loveth, he chastiseth; and he destroyeth every son whom he receiveth.
And he believed in David, saying, He hath made himself utterly abhorred among his people in Israel, and hath been unto me a servant for ever.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And his father-in-law, the father of the damsel, kept him there; and he stayed with him three days: and they did eat and drink, and remained there.
And she set in wait in the inner chamber, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and thou, Shammah son. And he brake the bands, as a moth's cord is broken; and his strength was not known.
And they waited a long time till they were ashamed; and seeing that no man opened the door, they took the key, and opened, and found their master lying dead on the ground.
And of the children of Dan, Zorah, and Eshtaol, went out with instruments of war.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved, and desire for, my joy and my crown, stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
Now therefore arise early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that have come with thee; and as soon as ye rise early in the morning, and have light, depart.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And Samuel took the vial of the oil, and poured on his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath appointed thee over his inheritance for the prince?
And he gave the sacrifice, and sent away the people that had come with the offering.
Now therefore hear ye their voice; but let them warn them, and show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward; and Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
And Samuel dwelt until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel was afraid to declare the vision to remembrance.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against the Philistines to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he is a man of war from his youth.
Neither will I destroy the nations which Joshua left, when he died:
and we saw that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
And the children of Benjamin went out boldly out of the city, and saw their enemies flee, and pursued them a long way, as they had done the first and the second day, as they had done the first and the second day; and they fled by two ways, which went up to Bethel, and the other to Geba; and they slew of thirty men.
And when Samuel had made all the tribes of Israel come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Abimelech sat down in a field; but the field of the field was over Tappuah, and his companions out of the city, and would not suffer them to dwell in it.
And the people came in unto the forest, and lo, the honey fell down, and none lay his hand unto his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And they dealt against the house of Rameses, that is, the house of Jerubbesheth, according to all that he did unto Israel.
For they that say such things make it known, that they search for a place for themselves.
But I want you to understand, brethren, that the things which befell me have fallen to the uttermost part of the gospel.
This is the parable, but now it is said, But the things that are shaken shall be taken away, as of things that are made, that the things which are not shaken may remain.
And the kine went straight on the way to Bethshemesh, on the way which they went; they went not to the right hand or to the left; and the princes of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
And the children of Israel were joined together that day; and Saul adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread till evening, until I be avenged of mine enemies. So none of the people tasted any meat.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's flock at Bethlehem.
For this cause he is between a new covenant, that, death, having taken place for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, the promise of the eternal inheritance.
And Jonathan answered and said unto Saul, Oh, that David desired me to go to Bethlehem.
And David arose, and went, he and his men, and smote of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they delivered them in full to the king, that he might be the son-in-law of the king; and Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
And the border on the north side was at Michmash, and the border on the south side toward Gibeah.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall deliver up.
And he took the offering unto Eglon, and the king of Moab was very fat.
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, Because this I have sworn with you, to pluck out to you every right eye, and I have put it a reproach upon all Israel.
Know ye that Timotheus our brother is set at liberty: with whom, if he come quickly, I will see thee.
And make ye my joy, that ye may be one of one mind, having the same love, being of one accord, made ready in mind.
For it is God that worketh in you both to desire and to work, for his good pleasure.
For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now speak unto you, that they are enemies of the cross of Christ:
then shall that which cometh forth from the door of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
And he took a young goat, and the drink-offering, and set them upon a rock, offering unto Jehovah, who doeth wonderful things: and he and his wife looked on.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
and it shall be in the morning about the rising of the sun, that thou rise early, and thrust upon the city; and, behold, he and his people go out unto thee; and thou hast done unto him as thy hand shall find.
And Saul went on this side of the mount, and David and his men on that side of the mount; and David hasted to go out from the presence of Saul; and Saul and his men pursued David and his men, to catch them.
And he sent messengers into all Manasseh, and they followed him; and they sent messengers into Asher, and Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they came to meet him.
And all the inhabitants of the city of Shechem heard of it, and went into the chamber of the house of God.
And they built the house of Ashtaroth, and set it in the wall of Beth Shean.
And the appearance of the countenance was so great that Moses said, I am afraid and trembling.
For this cause we should give heed to the things which we have heard, lest in any way we should be moved.
And it came to pass, when the three hundred three hundred, that every man's sword was lifted up, and every man's sword turned away from the hand of Jehovah against his brother, even unto Beth Jeshimoth, to the end of Abel, to the end of Abel.
And it came to pass, when they heard the Edomites, that had been set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
The weight of the golden rings that he asked was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the overlaying of the capitals, and the chains, and the purple garments which were upon the kings of Midian, and besides the chains round about their camels.
And Shammah the son went to Gaza, and saw a harlot, and went in unto her.
Let us therefore make offerings of praise unto God in all times through him, that is to say, the fruit of lips for his name.
And she said unto Shammah, Behold, thou hast mocked me with lying words; but now thou shalt say, How wilt thou bear thyself?
For it is God that worketh in you both to do and to accomplish, according to his good will.
This is the sign unto thee that shall come unto thee concerning the sons of Levi, the son of Levi, the son of Phinehas: they shall both die in the same day.
And we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
And he returned to Ramah, because his house was there, and there he judged Israel, and built an altar unto Jehovah there.
Now therefore hear, my lord the king, the words of thy servant: If Jehovah stir thee up against me, let him accept the sacrifice; but if the sons of men are cursed in the sight of Jehovah, who have cast me out this day, that I should not dwell in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve strange gods.
that I might know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being reconciled unto his death,
And the princes of the Philistines gave her the seven pieces of cords, which had not been dried up, and bound up all round about him.
Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take, I pray thee, one of the young men with thee, and arise, and go, seek the asses.
And Samuel took a little flask of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Behold, Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance; and thou shalt deliver his people out of the hand of their enemies that are round about them; and this shall be a sign unto thee, that God hath anointed thee to be prince.
And the holy place shall be the most holy place after the second veil.
but he, when he had offered a sacrifice for sins for ever, sat upon the right hand of God;
If thou shalt bring again the ark of the God of Israel, thou shalt send it not empty; but thou shalt render unto him the wages of sin, and thou shalt be healed; and thou shalt know why his hand departeth not from thee.
And Saul said unto his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it; lest these uncircumcised come, and thrust me through, and abuse me; but his armourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. So Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
Let our lord command thy servants that are before thee, and let them seek a man skilful in the harp: and when the evil spirit of God is upon thee, he may play upon it, and thou shalt feel better.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to set him in the valley of Dan, between Zareah and Eshtaol.
Yet they hearkened not unto their judges; for they played the harlot unto other gods, and bowed themselves unto them, and turned aside quickly out of the way wherein their fathers walked, and did not do so.
And on the morrow after the new moon, that is, the second day, there was no one in the place of David; and Saul said unto his son Jonathan, Why hath the son of Jesse not come to the feast?
And the men of Ashdod saw it, and said, The ark of the God of Israel dwelleth not with us; for his hand is hard upon us, and our god Dagon.
And after ten days Jehovah smote the Carmelite, and he died.
Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife was Abigail; and she was a prudent and very fair woman: but her husband was corrupt, and very ill; and he was of the house of Caleb.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue still; And they all shall wax old as a garment.
Then came up the song to Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Shall not David hide himself with us in the wood of the wood, in the mount of Paran, which is on the south of the wilderness?
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me well, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
and feed straw and provender for our asses, and bread and wine for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us, wherewith we shall send it to its place.
For he lusted after you all, and was filled with heaviness, because that ye had heard that he was sick.
And Shimei the son of Obed went with his brethren, and went to Shechem. And the inhabitants of Shechem took courage at his coming.
For by faith, even Sarah herself conceived; and she bare a child when she was old; for she believed him that had promised.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they were not able to escape, who would have refused to receive the words of the earth, much more we that turn away from him that doeth this from heaven:
Now Hananiah spake in her heart; but her lips fell, but her voice was not heard: therefore, Eli thought she was drunken.
And his friend answered him, saying, This is certainly the sword of Israel, the son of Joash, the men of Israel: God hath given up all the host of Midian into their hands.
Woe to us! for who shall save us from the hands of these great gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians in the wilderness.
and make straight paths for thy feet; so that which is lame can not be moved, but be healed.
Then came Jehovah, and said before, and Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel answered, and said, Lord, for the ears of thy servant are open.
And Saul went down into the wilderness of Ziph, and took with him three thousand of the best men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And the mountains were moved before Jehovah, before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Samuel died; and all Israel were gathered together, and mourned for him, and buried him in his house in Ramah; and David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
by which shall we be sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
Now there was a man of the servants of Saul that day, and stood before Jehovah; and his name was called Edom, the chief of the shepherds.
And they laid their bones in the earth under a tree in Jabesh; and they fasted seven days.
and if they say, Come up against us, and we go up: for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand, and this is to us the sign.
And when he saw that he was the Angel of Jehovah, he said, Alas, my lord Jehovah: for now I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
Or else they have not ceased to be offered; for the worshippers, having been cleansed, would have had no more conscience of sins?
to make Israel by them, whether they keep the way of Jehovah, to walk in it, as their fathers kept, or not.
But he that liveth for ever, hath his priesthood not changed.
And we saw that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
And God that begat them with signs and wonders, and with divers signs and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his will?
And they indeed for a few days, according to their own pleasure, instructed us; but he, for our sakes, that we might receive his sanctification.
And he reigned over Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And Abimelech went to smite at Thebez, and encamped against him, and took it.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in a tent.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and made a great slaughter of them: and David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee ruler over his inheritance?
Then they desired him to inquire of Jehovah, that they might know whether they should prosper, and that the thing should be done.
And Saul rose up, and went down into the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And Abimelech went to Tarshish; and the children of Heth sent him away, and his brethren, and they would not dwell in Shechem.
And Gilead took the banks of the Jordan to Ephraim, and it was, when one of the outcasts of Ephraim said, Let me pass over, and let the men of Gilead say unto him, Thou art a Syrian. And he said, No.
and it shall come to pass in the year, that in the year, even the chief priest, that is not without blood, which he offereth for himself, and for the error of the people;
the teaching of the law, and of the putting of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment;
And it came to pass, when their heart was glad, that they said, Call for Jonathan, and he shall play before us. And they called for Jonathan the son of the prison, and he stood before them, and they set him between the pillars.
Let thy meekness be known unto all men; The Lord is at hand.
It is the same to me, if I look down or glory; and in all things I have the mystery of how to be full and to go without food, and to have riches and to be in need.
for the word of Christ from the first day until now.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake to the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines went on, and increased; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, and the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is therein:
And they came to their brethren in the cities of Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What report ye?
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, riding upon camels, and fled.
And when Jehovah raised up to them judges, then was Jehovah with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repenteth Jehovah, because of their groaning from the presence of their oppressors, and of them that smote them.
that he should suffer many times from the foundation of the world; but now he hath appeared once at the end of the world for the captivity of sin.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and worshipped the Baalim, and all the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and the gods of the Philistines; and they provoked Jehovah, and were servants to him.
And all the people stood, and said, We will not return to our tents, neither shall any of us go into his own house.
And the captains of the Philistines said, What these Hebrews do here? And he said unto the captains of the Philistines, Is this not David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who hath been with me for days and years? I have not found any thing in him from the day of his departure until this day.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was greatly afraid; and she said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath hearkened unto thee, and I have laid down my life: I have heard thy words that thou hast spoken unto me.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good; and ye are still still: be not slothful to go to possess the land.
The men of Gibeah rose up against me, and compassed the house by night: they thought to kill me, and they ravished my concubine, and she died.
Now I rejoice in the Lord exceedingly, that now in length your thoughts have increased me, as ye thought also; but ye were filled with joy.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz, and the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, the uncle of Saul.
and testify unto us also the Holy Spirit: for after that he saith before,
For in that he himself suffered being tempted, he is able to help those that are tempted.
And David was the son of the Ephrathah, the son of Bethlehem, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man was old in the days of Saul.
And she arose, after she had eaten and drunk at Shiloh; and, Eli the priest, sat upon a throne, before the door of the temple of Jehovah.
My sons, the report is not good that I hear the people of Jehovah.
Do nothing according to their own lusts, or according to vain eyes; but in meekness considering one another better than yourselves;
And he said unto them, Are ye not the men that hated me, and cast me out of my father's house, and now ye have come to me with diligence?
And he said, Great is my sin: but now, give me glory before the heads of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah your God.
And he changed his way before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and tarried in the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall upon his beard.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord persecute his servant? for what have I done? and what is evil in my hand?
and having been made perfect, and made to all that obey him a cause of salvation everlasting,
And David pursued him, and he and four hundred men; and two hundred men stood still, who were too feeble to pass over the brook.
For if we keep the substance of the faith which we first, even until the end, we have a part with Christ;
And the Sidonians, and the Amalekites, and the Ashdodites, ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew that evil was determined by my father to come upon thee, then would I not tell it thee?
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves together.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? if Saul hear, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do all that pleaseth thee, but not until thou hast taken him from the breast; but Jehovah do as he hath said. And the woman stood there, and gave her the milk, until he was old enough to be taken from the breast.
And he said unto him, What is thy name, that thy word may come to pass, that we may honor thee?
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a great man; and there was not among the children of Israel a better man than he: from his shoulder and upward he was greater than all the people.
where your fathers tempted me, and proved me, and saw my works forty years.
Jehovah be merciful unto me, that I should not stretch out my hand upon Jehovah's anointed: but now take the spear, which is at his head, and the cup of water, and let us go.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the woman went her way, and ate, and her countenance was no more sad.
When ye go, ye shall come in unto a people that are confident, and the land great upon both hands; for God hath given it into your hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the land.
Seeing then it remaineth that some may enter into it; and they, to whom it was first preached, entered not by unbelief.
And the Philistines came up, and encamped in Judah; and they fled together.
And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of the valiant men, and commanded them, saying, Go, and smite the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead by the mouth of the sword, even the women and the children.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved, and desire for, my joy and my crown, stand in the Lord, beloved.
and the priests of Dagon, and all that came into the house of Dagon, did not walk upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
And he thought to lay her down, and said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But as she did not answer, seeing she was dead, he took her up, and laid her upon his ass, and returned to his house.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And Saul said, Then shalt thou say unto David, The king desireth no dowry, but only for a hundred Philistine foreskins, that the king may recover the better of his enemies. But it was in the heart of Saul that David might come to his end by the hand of the Philistines.
Not that I seek willingly; But I seek for your sakes.
but the Amorites dwelt in mount Jaakan, in Aijalon, and in dances; but the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and they became subject to forced labor.
And he went every year to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah; and he judged Israel in the mountains.
My sons, for it is no good thing that I hear: Ye make the people of Jehovah transgress.
That we may say, Jehovah is my help; And I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and treated her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her go.
And the Gileadite came to pass over the ford of the Jordan, by which Ephraim returned. And every one of the children of Ephraim fled thither, and said, I beseech thee, let me pass. The Gileadite said to him, Art thou not a man of Ephraim? If he said, I am not.
And the three bands were lifted up, and the horns were broken; and when the vessels were broken, they took the rods in their left hands, and the horns in their right hands, crying out, for the Lord and for Israel.
For as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, even though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people, and what they say unto thee: They have not turned away from thee, but have turned away from me, and have not desired me to reign over them.
And they sat down together, and ate and drink, and the father of the damsel said unto his son in law, I beseech thee to stay here to-day, and let us make merry together.
And David sware, and said, Thy father knoweth that I have found grace in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is only a breach between me and death.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech the son of Chenaanah came up to David to Keilah, the ephod fell in his hand.
And Saul and all the people with him came together, and went forward to the battle; and every man's sword was turned against the man at his side, and there was a very great noise.
which we have as a measure of the soul, perfect and strong, and that entereth within within the veil;
I speak not as it were for necessity: for I have learned, in whatsoever manner I am, to be content therewith.
and gather themselves unto him every man in affliction, and every man that hath an exactor, and every man bitter in soul, and he is over them for head, and there are with him four hundred men.
Let thy conversation not without love; for he hath said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
So Jehovah made Israel secure that day, and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass through thy land into my place.
And they went forth to meet them, and said unto him, Come in unto me, my lord, and fear not: for he went in to her tent, and covered her with a garment.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went upon smiting one another.
For he is put to the test; he is able to give help to others when they are tempted.
how much more shall the blood of Christ, which by the everlasting Spirit sacrifice himself without blemish unto God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And he said unto him, Far be it: thou shalt not die: behold, my father doeth nothing great or small, and doth not uncover mine ear: and why doth my father hide from me this thing? This is not so.
who through faith overcame kingdoms, having done righteousness, did what was promised, shut the mouth of lions,
And David said, Do not so, my brethren, with what Jehovah hath given to us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.
And when the lad was gone, David rose up from his place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and worshiped three times, and kissed one another; and they wept together, but David more.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw; and, lo, the multitude melted away, and it goeth upon, and is beaten down.
And Saul saw David from that day and forward.
And above it were the cherubim of glory covered with the mercy-seat, about which it was not possible to speak.
then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I shall return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be Jehovah's; and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
and for food, and for food, and for divers ings, and for all manner of service, unto the time of setting forth.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And he took the young men of Succoth, and asked him the name of the princes and the elders of Succoth, and told him seventy men.
And when Ehud had ended the tribute, he sent away the people that were bringing the tribute.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with staves? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah after the death of Jehovah.
And they said, We will gladly give them, and they spread out a garment, and every one cast a ring of his goods.
And the kine went up straight through the way to Bethshemesh; and they went by the way, and did not turn to the right hand or to the left; and the voice of their voice was clear on the way; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto Bethshemesh.
And all the children of Israel went up, and all the people, and came to Beth-el, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until the evening; and they offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And they said, Behold, the feast of Jehovah is in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, eastward by the way that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and southward of the wall.
whose end is destruction, Whose God is the belly; And whose glory is in their shame, Who considereth on earth.
And she called the child, saying, The glory is departed out of Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah, the first altar which he built to Jehovah.
And the children of Benjamin said, They set before us as at first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight, and let us go into the highways.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said; and he took the land of the three sons of Anak, and drove them out thence.
And he commanded the men whom he had sent, saying, Thus shall ye say unto all the men of Israel, Hath not a thing done like this from the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day? Give thought to it, and turn it over in your mind, and give it to you.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, saying, Let me go, why should I kill thee?
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver him into thy hand.
But the sons of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no present: but he held his peace.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Let me now write a riddle unto thee, if ye utter it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find out, and I will give you thirty coats, and thirty changes of garments.
And he took a censer of gold, and the ark of the testimony covered round about with gold, in which was a golden pot, which had manna, and the rod of Aaron, which had budded, and the tables of the covenant.
Let meekness be made known unto all men; The Lord is nigh.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went out to war; and Jehovah delivered the city of Ramah into his hand, and his hand prevailed against Migdol.
And David came in unto the two hundred men that were too tired to go after David; and they made haste to meet David, and they went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and David drew near the people, and inquired of them.
And he said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And we say that in Abraham, even Levi, who hath a right to take the tenth part, gave it.
And she called the child, saying, The glory of Israel is departed from Israel; according to the taking of the ark of God, and of her father-in-law, and of her husband.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God was taken.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah: do unto me according to that which hath gone out of thy mouth: for Jehovah hath avenged thee upon thine enemies, even upon the children of Ammon.
and ye rise up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten souls upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three companies: and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and the rest was scattered, so that there remained none among them.
And he turned from him to another, and spake after the same manner; and the people answered him again after the former manner.
And David ran, and stood over the Philistines, and took his sword, and plucked it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it; and the Philistines saw that they were dead, and fled.
For his heart was with you all; and he was greatly troubled, because ye heard that he was sick.
And the princes of Issachar, Deborah; and over the tribe of Reuben they were called into the valley at his feet: in the course of the children of Reuben there was great.
But God clave the hollow place that was in the mouth, and there came water there out; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof stone, which is in a den unto this day.
For they verily have a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our sakes, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
And Shammah the son went down to the woman, and made a feast there, as the way was among the young men.
And he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the first-born might not touch them.
also to appoint for himself heads of thousands, and of fifties, and of fifties, to plow, and to harvest his harvest; and to make instruments of war, and to make instruments of his chariot.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for I know not that the evil hath been determined by my father to come upon thee, and I tell thee not to thee.
holding forth the word of life to my glory in the day of Christ: I run not in vain, nor laboured in vain.
And the parable came to Mizpah unto his house; and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; and she was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
These are the nations, whom Jehovah hath kept in the land, for the intent of Israel's sake, that all those that had not seen of all the cities of Canaan.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, and fought with the Philistines.
For I am pressed by the two, having the desire to depart, and to be with Christ; for it is far better.
that thou hast put all things under his feet: for he hath delivered all things unto him, he hath left nothing under him: but now we see not yet all things under him.
And Jonathan said unto David, What shall thy soul say? and I will do it for thee.
And he took the king of Amalek with Agag, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
Now there was no iron found in the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews smite them with swords or spears.
I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before my anointed for ever.
And it came to pass, when David had heard these words, that he was wroth with the king of Gath.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the staff which was in his hand, and came against the flesh, and upon the unleavened things, and the fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened things; and the angel of Jehovah departed from his eyes.
For nothing is anxious, but in all prayer, and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your supplication be made known unto God.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
and see, my father, and behold the hem of thy garment in my hand; for in that I cut off the hem of thy garment, and slew thee not, know, and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou liest in wait for my life to take it.
And I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know the things concerning you.
Wherefore I hope to send him at once, when I see how to go with me.
And I will send forth three arrows at the side, and I will send forth mine target.
And he judged Israel three years; and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
Let your glory be known unto all men; The Lord is at hand.
And where there is a release of them, there is no more an offering for sin.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up a Saviour unto the children of Israel, who saved them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
so that I may meditate upon you in this way, because I have thee in my heart, and in my chain, and in my strife before the judges, making clear that it is true, that ye all have your part with me in grace.
Ye have not multiplied, ye speak proudly; the old have gone out of your mouth: for the Lord is the God of knowledge, and by him is the work of him.
making you perfect in every good work to do his will, to do in you that which is well-pleasing before him, through Jesus Christ, to whom the glory for ever. Amen.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
For ye had mercy on me in my bands, and rejoiced the spoil of your wares, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an old substance.
And as they were making their hearts glad, behold, the men of the city, a halt, surrounded the house, and beat at the door; and they spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may have sex with him.
For the covenant of the dead is in the day of the dead; for it is in no manner of force, but there is no man alive.
In those days there was no king in Israel; there was a man, a Levite, who dwelt in the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he took a concubine of Bethlehem in Judah.
Thus was the Midianites subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more: and the country was quiet forty years in the days of Gezer.
Now there was a sign between the men of Israel and the ambush, that they should make a great cloud from the city.
And Samuel rose early to meet him in the morning, and it was told to Samuel, saying, Saul is come in unto Carmel; and lo, he layeth up a pillar, and goeth round, and passeth over, and went down to Gilgal.
And the Levite, the husband of the murderers, answered and said, I came to the house of Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge in the night.
And all the children of Benjamin that fell on that day were twenty and seven thousand men that drew the sword, all that were able men.
Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And he said unto them, Why do ye do all these things that I hear, and your wickedness with all these people?
Now therefore, if thou hast done well, and hast not sinned for Abimelech king over thee, and hast dealt well with Baal, and with his house, and hast made a good return for the goodness of him that fought for thee,
And it shall come to pass, when these signs come to thee, that ye may see that it is needful for you; for God is with you.
And another went by the way of Beth-horon, and another went by the hill of Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my place with pitch, and to burn incense unto me, and to wear the ephod before me; and I gave unto thy father's house for all the sacrifices of the children of Israel.
These are the sons of Levi, that receive the priest's office, that they may take the tithe of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, who are come out of the body of Abraham;
Therefore said I, The Philistines have come down unto me unto Gilgal, and have not prayed unto Jehovah: I have made myself therefore, and I have offered a burnt-offering.
And he said unto them, I would have desired thee: give me every man the earrings of his spoil: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he added no more to seek him.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send you unto you shortly, that I also may be glad, when I know that thou doest.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
And the men of Ashdod rose early on the morrow, and, behold, Dagon fell upon the earth before the ark of Jehovah; and they took their place of Dagon, and put it to its place.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah; and Elkanah knew that she was his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
Is not this David of whom they sang one to another, saying, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
As the former proverb saith, From the wicked, wickedness goeth forth; but my hand shall not be against thee.
and with blood almost all things are cleansed according to the law; and apart from the blood of blood shall not come.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent and with earth upon his head.
And it came to pass, when he was with his brethren, that they smote the city with the edge of his hand, and pursued the enemies that were scattered over the field.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
Go down before me unto Gilgal; and behold, I come down unto thee, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice peace-offerings: and I will come unto thee seven days, until I come unto thee, and shew thee what thou shalt do.
Having been so much better than the messengers, as his inheritance is greater than they.
If one trespass against another, God will judge him; but if a man sins against Jehovah, who will pray for him? But they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah meant to slay them.
Behold, here I am, testify against me, against Jehovah, and against his anointed: whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken, and whom have I afflicted? Whom have I bruised? and of whose hand have I taken a ransom, and hid mine eyes with it? And I will restore unto thee.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through the dry land, which the Egyptians received, and swallowed up.
And Israel was greatly afflicted because of Midian; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Gilead dwelt beyond the Jordan; and Dan went into ships: Asher dwelt by the sea, and dwelt in the valley.
There is an old saying, From the wicked cometh evil; But my hand shall not be lifted up against thee.
And Saul sent his servants to David's house, to watch him, that he might die in the morning. And Michal the wife of David had told him this, saying, Except thou save thyself this night, tomorrow thou shalt die.
And David rose up, and wept, and wept, and wept not.
that my bonds may be known in Christ in all the house, and in all places.
And all the men of Israel rose up from their places, and stood in Baal Tamar; and the ambushment of Israel charged from their places, from the circuit of Gibeah.
and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dance, then come out of the vineyards; and every man taketh his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines, and said, Cast the ark of the God of Israel, and it shall return to its place, and it shall not kill us and our people; for there is a great destruction throughout all the city, and the hand of God was very heavy.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give ye bread of bread unto the people that follow me, for they are faint; and I pursue after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
seeing lest there be any who lack the grace of God: lest any root of bitterness bringeth forth trouble, and many be defiled by it.
And that man went up out of his city from time to time, to bow himself, and to sacrifice, before Jehovah of hosts, in Shiloh, and there were two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, the priests.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beast of the field.
But now we will do this, if God will grant us.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
And the wall of Jericho fell upon the wall of Jericho seven days.
And he spake also to the men of Peniel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Ask thy young men, and they shall tell thee, and the young men find grace in thine eyes; for on a good day we come; give, I pray thee, that thy hand shall find, to thy servants, and to thy son, to David.
Now therefore go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not: but kill man and woman, the suckling and the suckling, the ox and the sheep, the camel and the ass.
lest there be any whoremonger, or profane man, as Esau; for who sold his birthright to the field.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
For I have no man in the same mind, that with pure affection is anxious unto you.
And he said unto him, Where is now thy mouth, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go, I pray now, and fight with them.
But the children of Asher dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they drove them not out.
And Moses was very great, and he would not be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
Moreover, a vow made a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hand,
And when he had gone, his servants came and saw the doors of the upper chamber, and said, Behold, he is put in the upper chamber.
Wherefore have also been born of one, and that of one end is dead, as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man alive among them. And they said, Do all that is good in thine eyes. But the priest said, Let us draw near to God.
And he said unto them, What have I done like that which thou hast done? Is not the cluster of Ephraim better than the cluster of Abiezer?
But they said, How could this man save us? They despised him, and brought him no present: but he held his peace.
And David said unto the king, If I have found grace in thine eyes, let them give me a place in the land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the king's city with thee?
But ye have done well in my affliction.
It shall be that in the morning, when the sun is up, ye shall rise early and rush upon the city: behold, when he and the people that are with him come out against thee, then let ye do unto them as ye shall find.
And Joshua said unto him, Ah, my Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where are all his signs that our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up out of Egypt? And now Jehovah hath cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
and to those that were in Hormah, and in addition, and in addition to all that were in them,
These are the nations that Jehovah left, to test Israel by them, to test all them that have not known the land of Canaan;
And now what hast thou at hand? Give me five loaves of bread, or whatsoever is here.
And he asked her water, and she gave him milk, and gave him butter, and he gave him butter in the dish.
In times past the word of God came unto our fathers through the prophets, in different parts and in divers ways,
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Go up with me into my portion, and let us fight against the Canaanite: then I will go with thee into thy portion. And Simeon went with him.
And he went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city there, and called it Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath Jearim in Judah: therefore they called this place from Dan unto this day: it is the west of Kiriath-jearim.
And Saul said, I have sinned: return, O David, my son: for I will no more do thee evil, because my life is precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have gone astray.
And they fled, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness; and in the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who pursued them to Geba, and slew two thousand more.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no bread here at hand; there is only holy bread; but if the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because of the love of Jonathan.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab, on the mountain, and sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
Christ also did not glorify himself, that he might be made a high priest: but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Know ye that Timotheus our brother is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see thee.
And when he had ended the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.
And when all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, they said one to another, What is this that hath come unto the son of Kish? Is he also among the prophets?
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever; for Jehovah hath cut off all the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
And she gave the child the name of the child, saying, The glory is come out of Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And David took all the flocks, and the cattle, and brought them before these cattle; and they said, This is the spoil of David.
And the Philistines assembled, and came, and encamped at Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped at Gilboa.
For they could not bear the commandment, saying, If any beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but walk contrary unto his commandments, then shall the hand of Jehovah be upon you and against your king for your destruction, as it was against your fathers.
Now the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the people of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with saws, even in Ashdod, and in the land thereof.
And all the people cut down every one branch for himself, and followed Abimelech; and they set them up against the expanse, and set the beams on them, that all the men of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring thy son, and he shall die: for he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and he hath cut down the Asherah.
And it came to pass, as they went down at the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Speak unto the servant to go before us, and pass over; but stand thou still a while, that I may tell thee the word of Jehovah.
and ye have taken the ark of Jehovah, and put it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold, which ye have returned unto him for a trespass offering, that ye put in the hollow thereof, and send it away, and it is gone.
According to all their works, they have done from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: as they have forsaken me, and served strange gods, so do they also unto thee.
And he said unto them, If thou be thus, I will take vengeance upon thee, and afterward will I cease.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And when he came, behold, Eli sat upon a seat by the wayside, for his heart was moved for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried.
Remember your elders, who spake unto thee the word of God, and consider the fruit of their way, and follow their faith.
And he went thither to vex Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Ramah by Ramah.
Rejoice ye in Jehovah always; I say, Rejoice ye.
And a man came to Saul, saying, Be quick and come; for the Philistines have fought against the land.
And David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to wit, the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
saying, Blessed I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee exceedingly.
And the children of Benjamin came at that time, and wives were given unto them of the daughters of Jabeshgilead: but they found no one, whom they might give in like manner.
and turn ye not away; for vain things can not profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and set themselves in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people were come out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth to the field. And the two of them went out to the field.
When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, blow ye the trumpets also upon every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and of Benjamin.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, He is sick.
And Shammah went down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah; and they came to the vineyards of Timnah: and, behold, a young lion roared against him.
And to whom did he swear, that they should not enter into his rest; but to them that were disobedient?
And she wept bitterly, and cried unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon, and blew the trumpet, and called the house of Abiezer together to follow him.
And it came to pass between the journeys of the Philistines, that they went over to the garrison of the Philistines, there was a place of the rock on one side, and the top of the rock on the other; and the name of the one was altered, and the name of the other was called.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man of whom I have spoken unto thee, is this that withholdeth my people.
And when they came thither to the mountain, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, thy going in unto Shur, which is before Egypt.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought up the ark of Jehovah: come down, and take it to yourselves.
And Midian and Amalek, and all the children of the east, lay in the valley, as locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand upon the seashore.
so that ye may not be disorderly, but as for those that are partakers of the word, by faith and patience.
And the chief of the Philistines said, What meanest these Hebrews here? and he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
But I have all things, and I have increased; I am full, and have taken away the things that came out of thee, a sweet savour, a sweet savour, a sweet savour unto God.
And the thorn said unto the trees, If it be true that thou wouldest make me king, then come and lay thy faith in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and burn up the cedars of Lebanon.
And he said unto him, What is the word that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me. God do so, and so do to thee, and add so, if thou hide from me one word of all that were told thee.
Only let your conversation be worthy of the gospel of Christ: whether I come and see you, or being absent, hear of you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind for the faith of the gospel.
But if ye are without instruction, in which all of the sons are born, thou art a transgressor, and not sons.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a young man, and a goodly young man; and there was not among the children of Israel a master, than he: from his shoulders and upward he was above all the people.
therefore let us go forth unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
When the hair of the head is upon Israel, when the people shall offer themselves, they shall bless Jehovah.
And Jehiel, the wife of Heber, the Kenites, took in her hand a tent peg and a hammer; and she went softly to him, and cast the nail into his house, and it went through to the ground; and he was faint, and he died.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Baca, but found them not; and they passed through the land of Zephathah, and there they were not there; and he passed through the land of Benjamin, but found them not.
for all seek their own things, not the things of Jesus Christ.
Be free from the love of money, and be content with such things as thou hast; for he hath said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
Thus God did according to the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father, to slay his brethren seventy.
And when she saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he hath told me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hand.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until thou comest unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Saul said, I pray thee, let the punishment of Jonathan be upon me, O Jonathan.
And when they were afar off from the house, Micah and the men that were in the houses that were near the house of Micah cried, and overtook the children of Dan.
And Micah said unto him, Make thy dwelling with me, and be a father to me, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver a year, and thy raiment, and thy raiment.
Now some of the Hebrews had gone over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; but as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him trembling.
If a man sin against a man, then God hath judged him; but if a man sin, who doth pray for him? and they do not obey the voice of their father, though Jehovah delighteth to slay them.
and ye have risen against the house of my father this day, and slay his sons, seventy men, upon one stone, and cause Abimelech the son of his handmaid to reign over the masters of Shechem, because he is your brother.
And David said unto his servants, Before Jehovah, let not it be said that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the prince of Jehovah; for the oil of Jehovah was upon him.
And a bastard went out from the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath, whose name was Gath; and his height was six cubits and a span.
And she fastened it with the girdle, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Shammah son. And he rose up from his sleep, and plucked away the nail of the wood, and the house.
And Shammah the son said unto them, This time, as far as the Philistines are concerned, I am innocent in my sight.
But I am straitened between two men, having a desire to be destroyed, and to be with Christ, a matter by the better.
so that your glorying in me may be multiplied in Christ Jesus through my being present with you.
And the angel of Jehovah came before his eyes, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O man of war.
And Adam said, Now when thy words come true, what shall be the heir to the child, and what shall be his work?
And Jonathan did not hear of the thing that his father had done for the people, and put forth the rod that was in his hand, and put it in the honeycomb, and he brought back his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes behold.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and give birth unto a son, and no razor shall come upon his head; for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb; he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
For ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the will of God, ye may receive what was promised.
And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt not be able to go against the Philistines to fight with him; for thou art a child, and thou art a man of war since his youth.
for he was sick in death; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him alone, but also upon me, that I might not be sorrowful.
And she let him down through a window; and he went, and fled away, and escaped.
For ye have need of patience, that having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith Jehovah; and the Lord will judge his people.
And he smote him in Ziklag that day; and Ziklag was of the kings of Judah unto this day.
And he said unto them, This is nothing else, but the sword of the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for Jehovah hath delivered Midian, and all their hosts into his hand.
that he may be gentle to them that are ignorant, and go astray; for he also is surrounded with infirmity.
I will remember their iniquity and their statutes; I will no more remember them any more.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Anna, why weepest thou? and why hast thou not eaten? and why hast thou afflicted thy heart? am not I better to thee than ten children?
And Jehovah was angry with them, and delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
And they took the thing that Micah had made, and the priest, and came to the people of Laish, to a people that dwell in silence, and not in danger; and they put them to the sword without mercy, and burned their city.
And Moses was born three months by faith by his parents, because they saw the child fair; and they feared not the king's judgment.
And David said unto him, Can thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.
And the Philistines went up into the land of Judah, and encamped in the place that was called after them, that is, The place of the Zarhites, where their army was spread.
And the Amorite was determined to dwell in Haran, and in Aijalon, and in suburbs; but the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon them, and they became subject to forced labor.
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of the words, which they that heard, being destroyed, spake not to them any more.
And David arose, and went over with the six hundred men that were with him, even the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
And David said, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with what Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.
And David took his sword, and put the girdle round about him, and he could not go forth; for he was not willing to go forth; and David said unto Saul, It is not for me to go out with these, for I am not with them. So David took them away.
Israel set up a ambush round about Gibeah.
And Jacob died by the faith of Jacob, and blessed every one of the children of Joseph, and worshipped the head of his rod.
And he said, Mercy, I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Naphtali took not the land of the people of the people of Beth-shemesh, nor of Bethath, and drove them out; but he dwelt among the Canaanite in the land; but the people of Bethshemesh and of Beth Horon were put to forced labor.
And the elders of Gilead said, Jehovah will be a witness between us, and we will do as thou sayest.
Brethren, I count not myself to bear: but one thing I do, that I may forget the things that are behind, and set forth for them that are before,
And when these signs shall come unto thee, thou shalt do as thy hand shall find; for God is with thee.
But I have all, and I have increased: I am full, and have taken away the things which were sent from you, a sweet savour, a sweet savour, a sacrifice pleasing to God.
and carry these ten centurions unto the captain of the thousand, and visit thy brethren to see how they are, and take a pledge of them.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, my son David: and thou shalt do well, and prosper thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And he left them, that he might test Israel by them, whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had commanded their fathers by Moses, or not.
Is not the land of the which thy god Chemosh cast out from before thee? and we will keep all the land of them that Jehovah our God shall send out before us.
( Of whom the world was not worthy), and walked in the wilderness, and the mountains, and the caves, and the holes of the earth.
And he said unto him, Far be it from it, thou shalt not die: behold, my father doeth nothing great or small, but that he refuseth it to me: why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so.
and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own, which is of the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness of God by faith;
And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled from before him; and many fell unto the door of the gate.
That which thy god hath made thee to possess, dost thou not possess it? and all that Jehovah our God hath driven out from before us, it shall we possess.
Those whose root is in Amalek came forth out of Ephraim, after thee, O Benjamin, among thy people; And out of Machir came out of Machir; And they that handle the staff of the prince came out of Zebulun.
And Samuel told him all the words, and hid nothing from him. And he said, He is Jehovah; that which is good in his sight.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they made the Canaanite slaves, but they utterly utterly dispossessed them.
And the Amorites dwelt upon the mountain of Dagon, in Aijalon, and in dances; but the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and they became tributaries.
And they said, Thou hast not wronged us, neither oppress us, nor taken by any man's hand.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, the woman's concubine had fallen at the door of the house with her hands upon the door.
and let us consider one another to provoke love and to good works.
And the congregation sent twelve thousand men of the mighty men, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead, with the edge of the sword, with the women and the little ones.
Thou art a beloved of righteousness, and an enemy of evil; and so God, thy God, hath put the oil on thy head above the heads of thine enemies.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Jehovah even will require it at the hand of the enemies of David.
And Saul sent again to David again, saying, Bring him to me in the bed, that he may be slain.
And Abraham, being tempted by faith, offered up Isaac; yea, he that had received the promises offered to him, and only a son.
And he smote them from Aroer, and went to the brook of Minnith, and to the suburbs of the vineyards, a very great smiting; and the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house; and the child ministered unto Jehovah in the presence of Heli the priest.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred cakes, and two cups of wine, and five sheep prepared, and five measures of corn, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and laid them on asses.
For if the blood of goats and bullocks, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkle them that are defiled, sanctify unto the pureness of the flesh;
But go, and do good, and give to others; for it is well-pleasing in God.
And David called unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Wilt thou not answer Abner? And Abner answered, Who art thou that thou hast called the king?
that we should have such a high priest, that is holy and without evil, and doeth no wrong, having no part with sinners, and made high above the heavens:
And they came down from the high place into the city, and talked with Saul on the housetop.
And it came to pass, when he rose up early on the morrow, that he pressed the wool together, and poureth out the dew from the fleece, and was full of water.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David saw the place where Saul was lying down, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army. Now Saul was lying in the camp, and the people encamped round about him.
And he said unto them, This time will I be innocent in the sight of the Philistines, when I shall hurt them.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now in the last your visitation was increased, in which ye were diligent, but ye lacked the opportunity.
and Ziklag he gave him to be in Ziklag, that day for the kings of Judah unto this day.
For Jehovah will visit his beloved; And every man shall be his heir.
and all died in the faith without receiving the promises, but seeing them afar off, and receiveth them, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
And it came to pass, as he did so year by year, that she went up to the house of Jehovah, and her sister made her angry; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
that ye may be perfect and without blemish, children of God without blemish in the midst of a perverse and perverse generation, among whom ye are seen as bright in the world.
And Saul chose for himself three thousand men of Israel, of which two thousand were with Saul in Michmash, and in the mount of Bethel, and one thousand, with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and he sent the rest of the people to their tents.
And all the men of Israel said unto Jeremiah, Rule thou over us, and upon thy son, and upon thy son's son; for thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Midian.
Deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought me thy servant into a covenant of the Lord with thee: but if there be any iniquity in me, slay me, and bring me not in unto thy father.
And it came to pass, when thou heardest the decree of the dream and the interpretation thereof, that he bowed himself, and returned unto the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath given into your hand the camp of Midian.
And he smote the king of the Amalekites with them, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And the spies saw a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, the entering into the city, and we will shew thee mercy.
And they said one to another, Who did this thing? And they sought, and sought, and said, This is the thing which Joash did.
He asked also the milk of her milk; And she brought forth butter in her bosom.
And it came to pass as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul with timbrels, and with gladness, and with gladness.
But ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore will I not deliver you any more.
And let all thine enemies perish, Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the sun when it riseth up in his strength. And the land rested forty years.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And Jonathan sware unto David, because he loved him: for he loved him as his own soul.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Gilead there.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will recompense, saith the Lord; and again, The Lord will judge his people.
And they brought the ark of God into the house of Dagon, and put it by the side of Dagon.
And David said unto Jonathan, Tomorrow is the new moon, and I will not sit with the king at his table: but let me go to a place in the land until the evening.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Did I take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, and to go up unto my altar, to make the smoke of the offering go up, and to take up the ephod? Did I give unto your father's house all the offerings of fire by the children of Israel?
And it said unto them, Can I leave my sweet, and my pleasant fruits, and go to be exalted among the trees?
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
I know both to be abased, and I know to abound; in all things, and in all things, to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want.
And he numbered them in the valley; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
For take heed to him that hath endured such against the wicked against himself, that ye be not weary, and faint in your heart.
For this is the covenant that I will give unto the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my law in their heart, and I will write them upon their heart, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Go therefore, I pray thee, with all diligence, and take counsel, and consider the place where his foot is, and who hath seen him there; for he thinketh of me, that I lie in wait for him.
And they that were full shall hire themselves out for bread, but the hungry shall be fat: and as for the fruitful, she shall bear seven; but she that hath many sons, shall wither away.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to be with him in the camp of Dan, between Seraiah and Kadesh.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty cups, and lamps within the vessels.
And he consulted with Jehovah; and he answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by priests, nor by prophets.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And it came to pass the next day that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass that they that remained were scattered, and not two of them were left together.
So Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and they set wait upon Shechem in four bands.
And Israel and the Philistines had gathered themselves together, and they were armed against the host.
And this I pray, that thy love may abound more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
And he said unto them, What have I done now as you? are not the gleanings of Ephraim better than the harvest of Abiezer?
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew there thirty men, whose garments he took away, and gave to them that told the parable; and being very wroth he went up to his father's house.
And he said unto them, Let me make a request of thee, that ye may give me a ring of gold from his hand. And they had gold rings of gold, because they were the Ishmaelites.
And they came to the house of God at Shiloh, and dwelt before him until the evening, and lifted up their voice, and wept and wept, saying,
For all the land is come into a forest, And honey upon the face of the field.
For such a high priest, who is holy, and undefiled, and undefiled, separated from sinners, and made high above the heavens,
And ye came not to a mountain which is to be touched, and to burn with fire, and with a cloud, and with a thick cloud, and with a mighty wind,
Of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called:
Abide thou with me; fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: for thou shalt be saved with me.
For the Holy Spirit also is a witness unto us, for after that he had said before,
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
And he went down at her feet, and went down; and he was stretched out, and went down, and went down, and went down there.
Arise therefore in the night with the people that are with thee, and he hid himself in the field:
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, Who among all thy servants is as faithful as David? he is the son-in-law of the king that goeth quickly to keep thee, and be honoured in thy house.
where he entered us, having become a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
And Saul saw that he was wise, and feared him.
Behold, my daughter, the virgin, and his concubine, let me bring them out, I pray thee, and afflict them, and do unto them that which is good in your eyes; and to this man do not this foolish thing.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a spirit of understanding, that I may go unto her, and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a spirit in Endor.
And the three elder sons of Jesse went, and went after Saul to battle; and the name of his three sons that went into battle against Eliab the first-born, and his second Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And Saul said to the bearer of his weapons, Draw thy sword, and pierce me with it, lest they come, these uncircumcised ones, and thrust me upon me, and thrust themselves upon me. And the bearer of his weapons was not willing, for he was greatly afraid; and Saul took the sword, and fell upon it.
And the voice of Jehovah came to Saul in Gibeah, and said, Is not David waiting for us in the mount of Paran, before the wilderness?
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan; and they came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And Saul said unto him, The young man, whose son art thou? And David answered, I am the son of thy handmaid, the son of Bethlehem.
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king: for he hath turned back from me, and hath not kept my commandments; and it grieved Samuel; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And the uncle of Saul said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee.
For Jehovah will not give up his people, because of the glory of his name; for it is Jehovah's pleasure to make of you a people for himself.
And the lords of the Philistines passed by hundreds, and by thousands; and David and his men passed in the hinder parts.
And it came to pass at the time of the wheat harvest, that the son of the wheat came unto his wife, saying, I would go into the chamber of my wife: but her father would not allow him to go in.
Have they not found? and they divide the spoil, a female, for every head, for every head, and out of the hand of Sisera, and of the work of broidered work, and of the work of embroidery, for the neck of the spoil.
And Micah bare the Levites; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
Let them give heed to it, that go on white asses, And they that walk in the way.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, we fear in Judah; how much more shall we go to the battle against the Philistines?
Now therefore deliver us the men, the children of Belial which are in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and put away evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken to the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And David said, What have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I came in thy service unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And the fig-tree said unto them, Have I ceased from my sweet pleasure, and my good increase, that I have gone astray upon the trees?
And Israel sowed, and Midian, and Amalek; and the rest of the nations came up.
For when God made a vow unto Abraham, since he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself:
And of the sons of Israel, who came out of his stead, were threescore and seven; and he had many wives.
And when I blow with the trumpet, I and all that are with me, ye shall blow the trumpets round about the whole camp, and say, For Jehovah, and for the house of Israel.
And his brethren came down, and all his house, and took him up; and they brought him up, and buried him between Zareah, and in the valley of his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
And a messenger of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold, I pray thee, O barren woman, and thou shalt not bear: when thou hast conceived, thou shalt bear a son.
This mind be in you, which also is in Christ Jesus.
And the congregation sent twelve thousand men out of the army, and commanded them, saying, Go, smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women and children.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him before seeing that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, and the people said one to another, What is this that hath happened unto the son of Kish? Is he also among the prophets?
All these are dead according to faith, not having received the promises, but seeing them afar off, and exhorting them, and confessing that they are sojourners and strangers upon the earth.
And the children of Judah made not the Jebusites, who dwelt in Jerusalem, go out; and the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
and to remain in the flesh more necessary for your account,
God giveth us more good for us, that they be not perfected without us.
And after him was Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox, and he delivered Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not turn again with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And the children of Israel drew near unto the children of Benjamin on the second day.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose early in the morning, and he prepared to go away: but the damsel's father said unto his daughter-in-law, Take a little bread, that thou mayest keep thy strength, and then go thy way.
And the people of Gilead said one to another, Who is the man that shall fight against the children of Ammon? he is the head of all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And as for your asses that were lost three days old, do not care for them, for they are found: for whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not for you, and for all the house of your father?
And call unto the children of Dan, and they turned round their faces, and said unto Micah, What is it that thou hast been called together?
so that the Christ also was once offered to bear the sins of many, shall appear unto them that seek him the second time without sin.
I commend for the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And Jonathan seduced David, because he loved him: for he loved him, as he loved his own soul.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the stick that was in his hand, and touched the flesh, and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of Jehovah went out from his presence.
And they fled, and brought him thence; and he set himself in the midst of the people, and he was above all the people from his shoulder and upward.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the tribe of Dan, and his name was Adam; and his wife was barren, and bare no children.
And Shammah the son said unto them, This time I am innocent toward the Philistines, though I do them hurt.
For we have many words to speak, and hard to interpret, seeing ye have become dull of hearing.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the old old: now that which goeth forth, and wax old, is ready to perish.
And they sat down, and did eat, and drink, and they were both of them together. And the damsel's father said unto the man, I pray thee, tarry well in all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And he said unto them, Watch me, and do the same: when I come unto the uttermost part of the camp, do as I do.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah again: come down, bring it up unto you.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Abidan, and blew the trumpet, and the Hushathite of the house were gathered after him.
And she said, Hail hath taken away from Israel: for the ark of God is taken.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgotten Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the high places.
And when they had waited so long, they were ashamed, because he opened not the doors of the upper chamber: and they took the key, and opened the doors, and there their lord lay on the earth.
And the number of them that took up the waters with their tongues were three hundred; and all the people went down upon their knees to the water.
And Jehovah raised up princes, and they delivered them out of the hand of their spoilers.
How shall we give wives for them that remain, because we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
Salute all saints in Christ Jesus.
Behold, ye are all children of Israel: Give ye counsel and counsel.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain, and the children of Israel stood on the mountain, and the valley between them.
The saying of the elders saith, Out of the wicked cometh evil; but my hand shall not be upon you.
And when these signs shall come upon thee, do whatsoever thy hand shall find; for Jehovah is with thee.
And Amasa said unto her, If they bind me with seven green things, which are not dried up, I am weak, and am as one of the sons of men.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and the children of Dan sought their inheritance, to be their dwelling; for they were not divided among the tribes of Israel.
And the children of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to smite with slaughter against thirty men of Israel, saying, They shall be utterly smitten before us as in the first battle.
And it came to pass about a month after this, that Nahash the Ammonite came up, and set himself in array against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will be thy servants.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David: but Jonathan the son of Saul loved David exceedingly.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said unto Saul, Why dost thou hear them that say, That I desire to do you wrong?
And when ye have waited three days, go down quickly, and come unto the place where thou hast hid thyself, and remain by the stone of Ephraim.
And all the children of Israel went up, and all the people, and came to Bethel, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted on that day until the evening, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when the cart came into the field of Jeshua, a man of Beth Shemesh, that was, there was a great stone; and there was a great stone, and they cut the wood of the cart, and laid the cattle upon it as a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail against him: thy servant shall go and fight with the Philistines.
And there remaineth a day of rest for the people of God.
And the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the shewbread, that was taken before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
And Jonathan took off the robe that he had on, and gave it to David, and all his army with him, even to his sword, and for his bow, and for the girdle round about his flesh.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, be thus minded; and if ye be otherwise minded, this also God will reveal unto you.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he ministered with me in the glad tidings.
Now see how great this man was, to whom our father Abraham gave a tenth part of the things which he had prepared.
For the Christ is not entered into holy places made with hands of the truth, but into heaven, to appear before the face of God.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen that Jehovah hath given thee this day into my hand in the cave, and said to slay thee, and have pity on thee, and I say, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he hath anointed Jehovah.
Now therefore let my lord the king hear the words of his servant; if it be so, that Jehovah hath stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering: but if it be the children of men, they are cursed before Jehovah: for they have driven me out this day, that I should not cleave to Jehovah's inheritance, saying, Go, serve other gods.
Yea, I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is greater than all: for whom I have suffered all things, and to me they are less than nothing, that I may have Christ as my reward.
And the children of Israel turned back in the battle, and Benjamin smote them, and slew of the men of Israel about thirty men: for they said, Surely they are smitten before us as in the first battle.
Now this is the thing which we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it.
And he took two oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent through all the borders of Israel, by the hand of the messengers, saying, He that cometh forth after Saul and Samuel, thus shall he do to his cattle; and the fear of Jehovah shall fall upon the people, and they shall come out as one man.
And Isaiah believed his words, saying, He hath made himself odious to all his people Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
And Shammah the son cried unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, do me now now in mind, and make me strong only this once, O God, that I may recover from the Philistines for my two eyes.
The wise, her daughters, shall answer her; Yea, she saith unto herself,
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, northward of Mount Gaash.
For if the word, speaking by angels, became strong, and every transgression and transgression received a righteous reward,
to them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David himself and his men dwelt.
And the children of Benjamin were gathered out of the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle with the children of Israel.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Hast thou seen him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people cried, saying, God save the king.
And Joseph said that the children of Israel should go out of Egypt, and commanded his bones.
And Caleb said, I will give my daughter Achsah unto the man that smiteth KirjathSepher, and taketh it.
dwell with me; fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: for thou art a guide with me.
A certain man void of Moses' law, died without any mercy under two or three witnesses:
Zebah and Zalmunna fled; and he pursued them; he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings in the ears of the people; and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And the time that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was four months.
And they took their daughters to their wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
And it came to pass, that his mother's house spake unto him in the ears of all the people of Shechem, saying, He is our brother.
And Hananiah answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman whose spirit is broken: I have not drunk wine nor strong drink; but I have opened my heart before Jehovah.
And being certain of this, I know that I shall go and go with you all, for your increase and joy in the faith:
For the seventh day he spake; and God rested on the seventh day from all his works.
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Buy him, and see in his great strength, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him against him, and we will give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron; and the name of Hebron was called Hebron, and Ahiman, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
Then said all the trees unto the thorns, Come thou, and reign over us.
And the people said unto Saul, Is Jonathan dead, who wrought this great salvation in Israel? Jehovah liveth, if there fall from the head of his head to the earth, for God hath done this day. And the people save Jonathan, and he died not.
and fulfil my joy, that ye may think the same thing, having the same love, coupled in soul, thinking one thing;
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of the king of Gath.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came forth, and the vessels of the young men are holy; and the bread is in a common thing, even though it were hallowed this day in the vessel.
And now, Jehovah God of Israel hath cast out the Amorite out of the presence of his people Israel, and thou shalt possess it.
And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of the Jews, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.
Go now, I pray thee, and know, and know, and see, and see his place where he is, who hath seen him there; for it is told me that he dealeth very treacherously.
And the Philistines rose, and went, and came to meet David; and David hasted, and ran to the host to meet the Philistines.
And Japhlet passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron, and it came to pass, when the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekron cried out, saying, They have brought unto us the ark of the God of Israel, to slay us, and our people.
And he spake also unto the men of Peniel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
Now these are the golden vessels which the Philistines returned as a trespass offering unto Jehovah: one for Ashdod, and Ashkelon, and Ashkelon, and one for Gath, and one for Ekron.
also a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten them, his spirit returned, and he was refreshed: for he had not eaten bread, nor drank water three days, and three nights.
But what profit is it unto me, that I have counted the loss for Christ?
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcrafts, and the imagination of their heart is as iniquity and idols: because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also cast thee off from being king.
Yea, I count all things, but the glory of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I suffer the loss of all things, and count them as dung, that I may win Christ.
holding fast to the word of life, for the glory of me in the day of Christ, that I run not in vain, or in vain.
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise; and Saul sent messengers again, and they prophesied also.
The wisest of her women shall answer her; She also shall answer her soul.
It is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the anointed of Jehovah. And now behold the king's spear, and the staff of water that was in his heart.
And it came to pass every year, that, being given to Elkanah, and to his wife a blessing, saying, Jehovah give thee seed by this woman in exchange for the child that thou hast given unto Jehovah: and they returned to their house.
And it was told Saul by certain saying, Behold, David is in Ramah in Ramah.
And all the wicked men, and the wicked, of those that went with David, answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may go away and depart.
And let us consider how to stir one another up to love and good works;
And as this is not without oath,
And all Israel heard, saying, Saul hath smitten the garrison of the Philistines, and moreover, Israel hath been abhorred of the Philistines; and the people are called after Saul to Gilgal.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And David said unto Saul, Why do thou hear the words of men, saying, Behold, David seeketh to hurt thee?
And the Philistines called for priests and for diviners, saying, What do we do unto the ark of Jehovah? let us know how we send it to its place?
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no power to weep.
For if the word which was spoken by angels was established, and every transgression and transgression received righteous,
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the rock of Etam, and said to Jason, Knowest thou not that the Philistines reign over us? and what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, Just as they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And she bare his concubine in Shechem, and bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.
For they that speak such things make manifest that they seek a habitation.
And the woman hasted, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, he hath appeared unto me, the man that came daily unto me.
But the people took of the spoil, and the sheep, and the oxen, and the choice of the devoted things, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And they rose early the next day, and, behold, Dagon fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and they took their place of Dagon, and set him in his stead.
And David went from thence to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother go out with thee, until I know what God doeth for me.
The stars have fought from heaven; They have fought against Sisera.
And the princes of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, set themselves in the assembly of the children of God, four hundred thousand footmen by the sword.
And Saul was very wroth, and that he spake evil in his sight; and he said, They have sought unto David ten thousands; but to me they have sought the thousands; and there is more for him but the kingdom.
But my God shall abundantly provide all your need for his riches in the glory of Christ Jesus.
By faith Abel offered unto God a greater sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness of righteousness, God bearing witness unto his gifts; and by it he died, and yet he spake.
But as for me, I will shew the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I shall not die.
Zebulun was a people that bare his soul to death, And Naphtali also in the high places of the field.
And the man of Elkanah went up with all his household, to make a vow unto Jehovah, and to make his vow.
In the days of Shelomith, the son of Jephunneh, in the days of Jai, the highways were not used; and they journeyed by the way.
And he sent to them that were in Bethel, Ramah of the south, and Jattir,
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day: now let me smite him with a sword, and let him smite the earth with his spear, and there shall be no need to give him another.
and that God was able to give life to the dead; and because of this he brought him back as if he were dead.
Christ also did not glorify himself to be a high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my son: this day I am thy father.
If indeed he were on the earth, he would not be a priest; there were those that offer the gift according to the law;
And Jehoash said unto all those that fight against him, Shall ye take up the sentence of Baal? shall ye deliver him? and let him that taketh up his cause be put to death while it is yet the morning: if he be a god, let him take up his cause, because of the breaking down of his altar.
And all the men of Israel that had taken refuge in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, and pursued them.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head; and he was clothed with a pound of balances, and weighed five thousand shekels of brass.
But David fled, and went away, and came to Samuel in Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him: and he and Samuel went and dwelt in the land.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go? and have I smitten among these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and thou shalt smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor, the captain of his host, to Sisera, and to the chief of the Gentiles.
And the children of Israel went out to fight with Benjamin; and the children of Israel made war against them at Gibeah.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you.
And when David came again after the destruction of the Philistines, Abner took him to Saul, with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And Saul looked not upon David with a good eye from that day and forward.
And Saul arose, and went down into the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, None of us goeth to his tent, and none of us turn aside to his house.
When ye go in, ye shall come to a people safe, and the land shall be wide in every way; for God hath given it into your hand, and there is a place where there is no pleasure in the earth.
And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; for he had not found it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these; for I have not found them. And David put them away.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house, to keep him, and to slay him in the morning: but Michal his wife told David, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life this night, then thou shalt be slain.
For every house is builded by others; and he that is all things built God,
And Jehovah addeth to appear in Shiloh, for Jehovah was revealed unto Samuel, in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
And he thirsted, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great victory by the hand of thy servant; and now shall I die in thirst, and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised.
Ye have not yet resisted unto blood against sin.
And they sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying,
And it shall be, if Israel sowed, that Midian shall come up, and Amalek, and the children of the east; yea, they shall come up against him.
As for thy asses that were lost three days ago, do not consent unto them, for they are found. For whom is all desirable in Israel? Is it not for thee, and for all thy father's house?
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, According to these words hath David spoken.
Now ye also, ye also, know also, that in the beginning of the good tidings, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly came with me, as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.
And Saul pitched his tents in the high place of the wilderness by the way; and David dwelt in the wilderness; and he saw that Saul had come after him in the wilderness.
And when thou comest to the Jordan, he passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him, discouraged, and pursued.
And the children of Israel returned by their tribes, and by their fathers' houses, to their tents: in those days there was no king in Israel: but every man did that which was right to himself.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of the valley, and they found not; and they passed through the land of the Ethiopians, and they were not; and he passed through the land of Benjamin, and they found not.
Now the sons of Eli were the children of Belial; they knew not the Lord.
For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God hath done from his.
And the Philistines returned from thence to the children of Israel from Ekron to Gath; and Israel delivered their land out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
having no fear of them that are against thee; which is a sign of their destruction, but of thy salvation, and of God;
And they gave up Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples round about them, worshipping them, and provoked Jehovah to wrath.
and the men were very good unto us, and have not put us to shame; and we looked not after anything all the days that we went up and down with them in the field.
Have I hated men, that ye have brought this man to a mad man in my presence? shall this man come into my house?
But to hospitality do not forget; for by this certain men, being not aware of it, have entered into angels.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which art taken of thine, and thou hast sworn in mine ears, and said in mine ears, behold, the silver with me I have taken it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah.
And when the lad was gone, David rose from a place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and fell three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David was greater.
But I consider those things that are profited unto me for Christ.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the door of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, there lay the woman his concubine at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the door.
And David's servants said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah saith unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do unto him as it pleaseth thee. And David arose, and cut off the hem of Saul's garment in secret.
Wherefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of the house of Eli shall not be moved with sacrifice nor offering for ever.
And he had thirty sons riding upon thirty asses: and they had thirty cities, which are called the villages of Jair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And Moab was humbled in that day under the hand of Israel; and the land rested eighty years.
And when he had finished speaking unto Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And they took the thing that Micah had made, and the priest that he had, and came upon a people quiet and safe; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And when all that knew him aforetime saw that he prophesied with the prophets, the people said one to another, What is this that hath happened unto the son of Kish? Is he also among the prophets?
Now therefore, my father, behold, the skirts of thy garment in my hand; for when I cut the skirts of thy garment I slew thee not: know, and know, that there is no evil, nor rebellious in my hand: I have not sinned against thee, but thou huntest my life.
But the children of Asher dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they drove them not out.
For my father fought for you, and was in jeopardy of his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;
And he took a young man of Succoth, and inquired of him; and he told him the princes of Succoth, and the elders seventy men.
For the sentence of God is living, and work, and sharp above every one that is given a two-edged sword, and a sword unto the separate parts, both of soul and of marrow, and of marrow, and of marrow, and of understanding.
Yea, they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and to Ashtaroth.
And when Saul spake to the priest, the noise of the camp of the Philistines waxed louder and louder; and Saul said unto the priest, Take your hand.
For he of whom these things were said in another tribe, Of whom no man stood before the altar,
For Jehovah will not leave his people, because of his great name; for Jehovah hath pleased to make you a people.
And it came to pass that day, that day did God humbled the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
So it came to pass that day, that God smote Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand.
For this cause he is the mediator of the new covenant, that by death, for the redemption of the transgressions that are under the first covenant, those that are called to receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
And the heart of the priest was glad, and took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went with the people.
And all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the people of the east, gathered themselves together, and encamped, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And I went after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he rose up against me, I took him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
and we looked unto Jesus the Christ, and did the work of our faith; and for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, and despised the shame, and was set down at the right hand of God.
Shall the king of Israel come out? and after whom wilt thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a dream?
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Oh, my lord, let the man of God, whom thou sentest again, come unto us, and teach us what we should do concerning the child that shall be born.
And that day he gave him the name of Jerubbesheth, saying, Let Baal take up his cause against him, because his altar is broken down.
And Adam said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
My heart loveth the princes of Israel: O thou that of thy own good will ye bless Jehovah?
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Jakeh, the son of Michri, the son of Kemuel, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
And the old man lifted up his eyes, and saw the traveller in the open square; and he said, Where goest thou, and whence comest thou?
And all the people went to Gilgal, and caused Saul to reign there before Jehovah in Gilgal, and offered there sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul rejoiced with all the men of Israel.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? and again I will be unto him a father, and he shall be unto me a son.
And Saul and the people spared them, and the best of the flocks of sheep, and the fat of the herds, and the garments, and the rams, and all that was fair, and they would not destroy them: but every thing that was abominable and good for nothing, that they destroyed.
And Jehovah said unto David, By the three hundred men that are left, I will save thee, and deliver the Midianites into thine hand; and let all the people go every man unto his place.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him, and he loved him greatly; and he became his armor.
For as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die; but there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
And the children of Dan went on their way; and Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, and turned and returned to his house.
As it is righteous for me to think this unto you all, because ye have been in your hearts, and in my bonds, and in my defence, and by the gospel, that ye are all partakers of my grace.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of the Temanites, whose name was called by name.
And the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service he sprinkled in like manner with blood.
For he hath not subjected to angels the world, which should come, whereof we speak;
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and let us renew the kingdom there.
And Saul and the men of Israel gathered themselves, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And they turned thither, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and sought after his welfare.
Cursed is the curse upon her, saith the angel of Jehovah, and a curse upon her men, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
And they said, He is before you; go quickly quickly, for he cometh into the city to-day, for the people are making an offering in the high place this day.
And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where there is a tumult of the Philistines; and when ye come to the city, ye shall see a company of prophets coming down from the high place with instruments of music before them, and they shall be as prophets.
and when they were fallen, it was impossible to renew them again to repentance; and seeing they crucified the Son of God, and put him to shame.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went up against the Philistines; and they called that place Kibrothhattaavah.
And it came to pass at the time when the daughter of Michal the daughter of Saul was given unto David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
And there was a man in the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Michmash.
And they called the name of the city Dan after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: howbeit the name of the city was Laish.
Go not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again.
But we must take care of ourselves, and be diligent, that one tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
Wherefore they inquired of Jehovah further, if the man should yet come thither. And Jehovah said, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And she sat under a palm tree, which was called by her name, between Ramah and Bethel in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up unto her for all judgment.
but Christ is come to the high priest of the good things to come, by the better and without the perfect tabernacle, which is, not of this creature.
In those days there is no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the tribe of Dan sought for itself an inheritance to dwell; for it hath not fallen unto it unto that day in the midst of the tribes of Israel by inheritance.
In the faith of Noah, being warned of the things which were not yet seen, having feared, having made a ship to the salvation of his house, by which he condemned the world, and of the righteousness according to faith, he became the heir.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses: he and his sons were priests unto the tribe of Dan, until the day of the captivity of the land.
And Abimelech told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were there together.
And the chariots went after the chariots, and after the army, to loose the Ethiopians; and all the bands of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; not one was left.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do these things, which I hear, very wicked, from all the people?
And the messengers sent messengers into all the mount of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and carry the waters before them to the Jordan; and all the children of Ephraim shouted, and took the waters before them, and the Jordan as far as Bethdar.
Who by faith overcame kingdoms, who wrought judgment, and hath sworn, and stopped the mouth of lions;
For God is not unrighteous, that he may forget thy work and the labour of love, which thou hast shewn to his name, in that thou didst serve the saints, and yet serve them.
And they said, What is the trespass offering that we shall return unto him? And they said, Five golden kine, and five of gold, and five of the work of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon thy nobles.
But there is no strife in any matter, but the greater is blessed.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the spoil to the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you from the spoil of Jehovah's enemies.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and departed from off Saul.
For our God is a consuming fire.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Balaam, saying, I have brought thee up out of Egypt, and have brought thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will not break my covenant with you, and as for you,
And they fled from before the men of Israel into the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of them.
And they were not satisfied with his words: which the man saw, brought forth his concubine unto them, and left her to their wickedness; and when they had oppressed her all the night, they let her go in the morning.
And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, get thee down from the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
And here, behold, the men that die do receive the tithe; and there, which is testified to that he was alive,
And the number of them that drew up the waters with their hand were three hundred men; and all the people fell on their knees to drink the water.
For many walk, of whom I told you often, and now ye weep, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land; but the king of Edom would not hearken to it. And they sent to the king of Moab, but he would not consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
For even in Thessalonica, even in the city of Thessalonica, ye sent for my need.
And they asked the Lord, saying, Is there the man here? And the answer of Jehovah was, that he set himself among the spoil.
and because of this, he ought, as for the people, so also for his sin.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant was keeping his father's sheep; and when a lion or a bear came, and took a lamb out of the flock,
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel the ruler over them, the Spirit of Jehovah came also upon them, and they began to prophesy.
For he, of whom these things are spoken, is of another tribe, of which no man ministered upon the altar.
and they passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul yet in Gilgal, and all the people trembled after him.
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with him, and he departed from himself.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands, and his feet, and his armor after him; and they fell before Jonathan, and slew them after him.
and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dancing, then ye shall come out of the vineyards, and take away every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
For who, when they heard, rebelled? Not all came out of Egypt by Moses.
And the king said unto the king, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests; and let the people of Edom turn and fall upon the priests, and slew in that day, and put upon the linen ephod.
And Elijah said unto the angel of Jehovah, Let us now keep thee, and we shall prepare thee a goat.
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, Who among all thy servants, the faithful, and the law of the king, and hath turned aside unto thy council, and is glorified in thy house?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went, and went, and two men with him; and they came to the woman by night; and he said, I pray thee, God, by the Spirit's spirit, and bring me up, whom I shall call unto thee.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel; and the battle was spread; and Israel was routed before the Philistines; and they slew in battle array in the field about four thousand men.
And again he counteth a certain day, saying, This day day, day after this day; according as it is said before, this day, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your heart.
And the elders of the congregation said, How shall we provide wives for them that remain, since the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
and behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all adversity.
And the Philistines came nearer to David; and the man that had his shields went before him.
the same hour and the same hour, and the same for ever.
But exhort one another every day, while it is called to day, that none of you be offended through the deceit of sin.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, the uncle of Saul.
And the people saw him, and glorified their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hand our enemies, and destroy our land, and have killed many of us.
in the same way, while ye were made a spectacle, both by reproach and afflictions, and part of part, while ye were friends of them that were in bondage.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; and the children of Israel gave land to Benjamin, because they trusted in the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
Of whom it was said, From Isaac shall thy seed take their name.
And a young man of the house of Judah, of the house of Judah, and he a Levite, and he sojourned there.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went forth into the field for David, and a child with him.
Now there was a sign between the men of Israel and the ambushes, that they should make a great flame with smoke out of the city.
The Sidonians also, and Amalek, and Amalek, and the land of Canaan, did thou oppress you, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And the men of Beth Shemesh said, Who shall stand before Jehovah this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
As it is said in the old proverb, The wickedness of the wicked shall come forth: therefore my hand shall not be upon thee. And after whom hast thou come out, O king of Israel?
And now, behold, I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; now the shepherds whom thou hast been with us, we have not put them to shame, neither have we looked after them, all the days of their being in Carmel.
And it came to pass, when he was sleeping, that she took the bands of his head into her garment, and set him with the girdle, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and arise, and rise up quickly; and he arose quickly, and rent himself, and rent himself.
And David smote the land, and spared not man or woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the raiment: and he returned, and came to his face.
And the children of Midian were subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted no more up their head; and the land rested forty years in the days of Gideon.
Not that I have already obtained the prize, nor have I been made perfect; but I go after, if I may receive it, seeing that also I have been received by Christ.
And it came to pass, that every one that saw it said, There was no such thing done, nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day. Think ye therefore, and speak.
And now we say, Jehovah is my help; I will not fear; what shall man do unto me?
For we who have believed, shall enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath: if they enter into my rest, and this is the work of the foundation of the world.
And David sent ten young men; and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go unto the Carmelite; and salute him in my name.
And the three hundred blowing the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his brethren, even throughout the camp: and the camp fled to Bethjoth toward the plain, to the border of Abel Hepher, by bath.
And David gave his portion into the hand of the keeper of the guard, and ran to the host, and came to his brethren to know them.
And death came to Samuel; and all Israel gathered together, weeping for him, and buried him in his house in Ramah; and David went down to the wilderness of Maon.
For the Christ entered not into holy places made with hands of the truth, but into the heaven itself, to be manifested before God for us.
And it came to pass, when they had taken it away, that the hand of Jehovah was stretched out upon the city for his destruction; and the plague was upon all the men of the city, small and great.
And Jehovah said unto him in that night, Take the bullock of the herd that is thine father, and a second bullock seven years old, and break down the altar of Baal that is thy father's, and cut down the Asherah that is beside it;
And Shammah the son answered him, From this day will I be innocent in the sight of the Philistines: for I will do thee evil.
And I exhort you to do this, that I may return unto you shortly.
And when she heard the noise of the cry, he said, What is the noise of this uproar? And the man came quickly, and told him, saying,
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, Abimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me here the ephod. And Abiathar brought there the ephod to David.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and found Saul lying, and sleeping in the tent, and his spear stood in the ground; and Abner and the people slept about him.
In former days in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, let us go, and let us go to the prophet; for he that is called a prophet was in the first time called a seer.
How much more, if the people have eaten willingly this day of the spoil of their enemies which they found, now have there been no great slaughter among the Philistines.
And they told to Sisera the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, unto mount Tabor.
So Abimelech rose up, and the people with him by night, to make a surprise upon Shechem.
And they smote at that time about ten thousand men of Moab, every strong man, and every man of valor: no man escaped.
If they say unto us, Wait until we come unto thee; then we shall stand, and not go up unto them.
And man said unto his wife, We will surely die, because we have seen God.
And they went up from the land of Egypt, and passed through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And the vine said unto them, Am I to give up my wine, that maketh God glad and men, that he may be parted by the trees?
Behold, my virgin daughter, and his concubine, I pray thee, let me bring them out, and do violence unto them, and do unto them as thou please; do not this thing that thou hast done to this man.
and every tongue may confess that Jesus Christ, to the glory of God the Father.
for it is borne witness: Thou art a priest unto ever, according to the order of Malchijah.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
For the law bringeth nothing to perfection, but a present in hope, whereby we draw nigh unto God.
And it came to pass in the morning, that her master arose, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go on his journey; and, behold, his concubine fell at the door of the house with her hand upon the door.
And when Saul spake to the priest, there arose a great tumult in the camp of the Philistines; and it increased by steps, and was heard more. And Saul said unto the priest, Draw in thy hand.
For to which of the angels he said, Thou art my son: this day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be unto him a father, and he shall be unto me a son.
And Saul had given Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of David, to Palti the son of Laish.
And they forsook Jehovah the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods from the gods of the peoples that were round about them; and they bowed themselves to them, and provoked the anger of Jehovah.
And after ten days the Lord smote the Carmelite, and he died.
And the men of Jabesh said unto the children of Ammon, Tomorrow we come out unto you, and ye have done unto us according to all that good in your eyes.
And Jesse called his name Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel: and he said, Jehovah hath not chosen this man.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Hear, ye kings, give ear, ye princes: it is I that will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who can stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go from us?
but we are not of them that turn back to destruction, but of those that have faith unto the salvation of the soul.
And now, I pray thee, hearken also to the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee, and eat, that thou mayest have strength when thou goest on thy way.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised up a deliverer unto the children of Israel, who delivered them: Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
For as Jehovah liveth, who delivereth Israel, I swear, even if it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But none of all the people answered him.
And David wasted all the land, and left neither man nor woman alive; and he took away the sheep and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the clothing, and returned and came to them.
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons; and when his wife's sons were grown, they cast lots, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit the house of our father; for thou art the son of another.
And there was trembling in the camp, and in the field, and among all the people; the bands, and the spoilers, they also trembled; and the earth shook, and it was very great.
Not that I seek the gift; But I seek for the profit that is for your sakes.
And there came a man of God unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Was I not revealed unto the house of thy father in their being in Egypt before Pharaoh's house,
For they are the statutes of the flesh, and of the wine, and of the drink, and of the water, which have their place till the time when things shall be accomplished.
And they answered, We will willingly give them; and they spread a garment, and cast in it every man the rings of his prey.
And the number of the days that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was one year and four months.
if thou hast done good in the faith and in the sincerity of Baal, and in the house of his house, thou shalt rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in thee.
Now therefore behold the king, whom thou hast chosen, and whom thou hast asked; behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and thorns; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
by faith, Noah, having received an answer concerning those things which were not seen, moved with fear, having made the ark to save his house, by the which he condemned the world, and was ordained to inherit the judgment that is by faith.
And the parable thereof, and sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon,
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Say ye, what is this evil?
And he stripped off his clothes, and also prophesied before Samuel, and lay naked all that day and all that night; therefore said they, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Saul stood in the uttermost part of Geba, and passed through Migron; and there were about him six hundred men with him.
And when he was dead, all the men of Israel that were with him returned home.
Offer the word of life, that I may have glory in you in the day of Christ: for my running was not for nothing, and my work was not without effect.
And Jonathan smote the band of the Philistines that were in Geba; and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And he knew that he was an angel of Jehovah; and he said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face.
and know also ye, ye also, that ye excel in the good tidings, that in the beginning of the good tidings, when I came forth from Macedonia, there was no assembly spoken unto me in the way of giving and receiving you alone.
And they turned aside thither, and dwelt at Gibeah; and he went in, and sat in the street of the city; for there was none who brought them into his house to sojourn.
For I am in a strait strait between two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better.
And as they were taking their pleasure at supper, the evil men of the city came round about the house, and smote the door; and they said to the elders, the master of the house, Send forth that man which came into thy house, that we may receive our pleasure with him.
And it came to pass, when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is that thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
And they went from thence to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the Amorites drove the children of Dan into the hill-country: for they would not suffer them to go down into the valley.
Ye have not yet withstood the blood of your blood against the sins of sin.
Therefore, brethren, having confidence in the most holy place by the blood of Jesus,
And the carpenter died, and was buried in Bethlehem.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee, and Jehovah will avenge me upon thee, and my hand shall not be upon thee.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the den which are in the mountains, and in the caves, and in the rocks.
And the priest answered David, and said, I have no bread, but there is holy bread; but if the young men have kept themselves from women.
For many, indeed, have been made priests, because they have been hindered from death.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee in safety, and deliver thee into their hands; but he will not kill thee. And they bound him with two chains, and brought him up out of the rock.
And it came to pass, when they went from thence to Gibeah, that the men of the prophets met him; and the Spirit of God ran upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel stood over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight; and Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped by the rock. And the Philistines came to Aphek,
And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
For ye sent unto me once in Thessalonica once and again.
And I said, Now the Philistines come down upon me at Gilgal; and I have made no prayer unto Jehovah; and I have made myself a burnt offering.
For they did not bear that which was said; and if a beast touched the mountain, it shall be stoned.
And the cities that the Philistines took from Israel, they returned to Israel from Ekron even unto Gath; and their border Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost: and he said to Saul his son, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, and arise, and seek the asses. And they passed through mount Ephraim.
And others were judged with mockers and stripes, and also of chains and prisons.
And the congregation sent and spake all this to the children of Benjamin, who were at the rock of Rimmon; and they assured them that they should not be hurt.
And he went and prepared a kid of the goats, and unleavened cakes of fine flour, and put meat in a basket, and put in a vessel, and brought them unto him under the oak, and brought them to him.
And he took ten men of his servants, as Jehovah had commanded him; and they feared the house of his father, and the men of that city, and did not do it by day, but did all by night.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a hundred and ten years.
And the people came to the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto us from Shiloh, that it may come into our midst, and deliver us out of the hand of our enemies.
even the reproach of Christ more than the treasures of Egypt; for he had respect for the reward of the reward.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Shimei, and Malchijah, and the names of his two daughters: the name of Michal the first-born, and the name of the younger Michal.
And all the children of Israel went to the Philistines, and took their bands, and their axes, and their axes, and all the bands of the children of Israel.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of palms.
And all the men of Israel when they saw the man fled from before him, and were greatly afraid.
For we are partakers of Christ, if we hold the foundation of our confidence unto the end.
And the son of Ebedmelech said, Who is Abimelech, and who are we of Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerubbesheth, and is not the head of his captain? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: why should we serve him?
And the king said unto her, Fear not; but what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw a god going up out of the earth.
And Hananiah prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah; my horn is exalted in Jehovah: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
Wherefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
Now when these things were done, the priests went continually to the first tent, to do the service of God.
Wherefore, from one was born, and that of one who had been dead, as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand that by the sea-shore, these are innumerable.
And when Israel waxed strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, and did not utterly drive them out.
and he brought nigh before Saul, and before his servants, and they ate, and rose, and went in that night.
As to the rest, brethren, as many as are true, as many as are of the grave, as many as the righteous, as many as are pure, as many as are of good report, and as many as are of good report, and as many as are of good report, and of all praise;
saying, Thou shalt offer sacrifices and oblation, and burnt offerings, and for sin offerings, which thou shalt not, nor delight in; which according to the law shall be offered.
that ye may give your righteousness to the good things, that ye may be true and without fault till the day of Christ;
Then said I, Behold, I come, in the volume of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God.
And thou shalt say, Because Jehovah hath given me as Zebah and Zalmunna, I have threshed thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with the threshing instruments.
And they went out before the princes of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth: forasmuch as Jehovah hath avenged thee upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, the least of all the tribes of Israel? and my house, the least of the house of Benjamin, why do ye speak these words unto me?
So he made it a statute and a decree for Israel from that day until now.
And Samuel called the people unto Jehovah unto Mizpah.
And they made a covenant before Jehovah; and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
And Jonathan bare his weapons to his young son, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were greatly afraid.
for he longed for you all, and was very troubled: for ye heard that he was sick.
For then they would have ceased to be offered: for the fear of them was made without sin any more.
And Jonathan gave his weapons unto the young man whom he had, and said unto him, Go, carry into the city.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels; Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour.
Go not thou, I pray thee, until I come in unto thee; and I have brought out my present, and put it before thee. And he said, I will abide till thy return.
and to those that were in Bethel, and to those that were in the south of the south, and to the people of Jattir,
And they cried unto Jehovah, who lifted them up a saviour, and delivered them, that was Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb.
And Jonathan answered David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: why look thou, I pray thee, in the morning, and thou shalt abide in a secret place, and shalt be hid.
Take heed that no man fall short of the grace of God; lest there be a root of bitterness that causeth trouble, and by it many are defiled.
Now Hananiah was speaking in her heart, and her lips were moved, and her voice was not heard; and she thought she was drunken.
at the end of these days hath spoken unto us by his Son, whom he appointed to inherit all things, through whom also he made the world.
For every one that taketh milk is without the word of righteousness; he is a child.
And Jehovah said unto David, Yet the people also are many, bring them down to the water, and I will melt it for thee there; and he of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, and he shall go with thee; and none of whom I say unto thee shall not go with thee; he shall not go with thee.
And God recompensed all the wickedness of the men of Shechem upon their heads; and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth came upon them.
but to-day thou art turned away from thy God, who hath delivered thee out of all your troubles, and out of all your troubles; and thou hast said unto him, Set a king over us: and now thou shalt stand before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth there shall no evil befall thee for this thing.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, I can not tell.
For he hath testified of him, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And the children of Israel departed concerning Benjamin their brother, and said, This day hath been cut off from Israel.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and the idols, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they made him drink water.
and the five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Avvites, that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Hermon unto the entering into Hamath.
And the Philistines came out morning and evening, and offered himself forty days.
But now he hath obtained much more excellent, by so much as he is, the mediator of a good covenant, which is given to the law.
And he gave unto Hananiah a double portion; for he loved Hananiah, but Jehovah shut up her womb.
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and smote of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men; and all these drew the sword.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and put thine hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest: is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe, and to a family of Israel?
For it was so much that Jesus held a good covenant.
And with the stamping of the horse, and of the stamping, and of the stamping of the horsemen.
And it shall be, that in the morning, when the sun is lifted up, thou shalt rise early and set upon the city; and, behold, he and the people that are with him come out against thee, then do unto them as thou shalt find occasion.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal Tamar; and the ambush of Israel ran out of their place, out of the pastures of Geba.
And Samuel continued not to see Saul till the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And the man, the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, Unto Gibeah, which is to Benjamin, I have come, I and my concubine, to lodge.
And he opened all his heart unto her, and said unto her, My head is not touched with a blade; for I am separated unto God from the day of my birth: if my hair is cut off, then my strength shall depart from me, and I shall be as one man.
And he took a young man out of Succoth, and asked him; and the young man, and the captains of Succoth, and the elders, seventy thousand men.
and they shall prove Israel by them, to know whether they keep the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Tamar, between Ramah and Bethel, in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
and said unto him, Fear not; for Saul my father will not deliver thee into his hand; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be by thy side, and Saul my father knoweth this.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us that the asses were found: but of the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken unto him, he told him not.
And Jotham fled, and fled, and went to Beer-sheba; and he remained there for Abimelech his brother.
For if we keep on sinning, after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more a sacrifice for sins;
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that before he went into the chamber of the bride, the men of the city said unto him, What is better than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not been plowing with my heifer, ye would not answer me.
How shall we escape, having neglected the great salvation? which the beginning receive, to be spoken by the Lord, by those having heard it,
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Zuzites, and Amalek: for they were of old men of old, as thou goest to Shur, and unto the land of Egypt.
Go now, I pray thee, and know, and know, and behold his place where his foot is: who hath seen him there? for he saith unto me, He is very crafty.
and being persuaded, I know that I shall abide, and continue with you all, to your course, and joy of the faith,
And he said, With the edge of the ass of the ass, heap upon heap; with the edge of the ass of the ass, I slew dead men.
And we saw that they could not go in, because they believed not.
and Kish begat Saul, and Kish begat Abner, and the sons of Abital;
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for I hear of your wickedness by all this people.
For our country is in heaven, and the salvation of the Lord Jesus Christ;
and gave him a piece of figs, and two pieces of raisins, and he ate; and his spirit came again unto him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, for three days and three nights.
And they went to Mizpah to Mizpah, and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and dancing; and she was only child, and had no son, save her.
That the daughters of Israel went to lament the daughter of Jephllows, four days in a year.
But now they desire a good country, that is, the heavenly, that God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city.
and it is yet far more: for that, after the similitude of Malchijah, there stood another priest.
And as they were making their hearts glad, behold, the men of the city, the sons of Belial, surrounded the house round about, and smote at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine house, that we may know him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jires, and went through Gilead and Manasseh, and came to Mizpah; and from Mizpah he went over to the children of Ammon.
I will put this wool of wool upon the floor; if there be dew upon the fleece of the fleece, and it be dry upon all the ground, I will know that by my hand thou wilt deliver Israel.
And after he rose up Jair a Gileadite, and he judged Israel two and twenty years.
Wherefore, departing from the first commandment of Christ, let us compel to be sober, not putting a foundation to repentance from the dead, of faith toward God;
And when Saul came out of the field after the cattle, Saul said, What aileth the people, that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And Jehovah sent thee on a journey, and said, Go, and utterly destroy the sinners of the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed.
To our God and Father glory for ever. Amen.
And Jacob blessed the two sons of Joseph, when he was near to death; and he bowed down with his staff.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel should not dwell with us; for his hand is grievous upon us, and our god Dagon.
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after gain, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.
And thou shalt say unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak, and this time; I pray thee, I pray thee, and this time with the fleece of the fleece: let it be dry upon the wool, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning; and Michal the wife of David told him, saying, If thou deliver not thy life this night, to-morrow thou shalt be put to death.
by faith Abraham, when he was called, to go forth into a place that he would receive for inheritance: and he went out, and did not know where he went.
And who will hear thee in this matter? For as his portion is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that remaineth with the stuff; and they shall be in the same.
And when Abiathar the son of Chenaanah had fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Jeremiah said unto him, Alas, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why have these evils fallen upon us? and where are his signs, which our fathers told us, saying, Jehovah brought us out of Egypt? But now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the bands of Midian.
And he said unto his servants, Behold, ye see a mad man: why have ye brought him unto me?
And he said unto them, Sacrifice and offering, and burnt offerings, and offering for sin, thou wouldest not desire, nor desire therein; for it is made by the law.
And when they were come into the field, Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us go, lest my father take care of the asses, and be troubled about us.
Now after Abimelech, Tola the son of Jvah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, was the Saviour of Israel; and he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the Philistines gathered their tents to battle, and they gathered themselves together to vex their tents, which went to Judah, and encamped between them and Azekah;
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Art all the young men? And he said, The youngest still remaineth, and behold, he feedeth the flock. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and bring him: for we can not sit down till he come hither.
how much more ye think that he hath broken the blood, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath esteemed the blood of the covenant unclean by which he was sanctified, and hath offered an offering before the Spirit of grace?
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and we will go to Gilgal, and we will renew the kingdom there.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
For I have no man in the heart of any man, That he may have respect for you.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron, and the ark of God came to Ekron, and said, They have brought up the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay us and our people.
And the carcase of the beast, whose blood is taken into the holy place by the high priest, shall be burned without the camp.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why troubled thou me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore troubled: for the Philistines have made war against me, and God is departed from me, neither of the prophets nor of the dream; therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And there is no blemish before him; but all things naked, and laid bare to his eyes, with whom we have to do.
Whence shall they take wives? for we have all been in prison, and not to give our daughters unto them.
And David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel, and come to the pit of Nabal; and ask of him peace.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Gittite.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? why have ye come to me now, when thou art in trouble?
And the children of Benjamin were eighteen thousand, all able men able men.
that I may prove Israel through them, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers did, and not.
And as for Sisera, he called all his chariots, and nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the descent of the nations unto the brook of Kishon.
And the thorn-bush said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, and put your trust in my shadow: and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and consume the cedars of Lebanon.
And it came to pass, when the cloud rose up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, that the sons of Benjamin looked behind them; and, behold, all the city went up to the heaven.
And what shall I say more? For the time would come upon me, that I should speak unto the king of Babylon, whose name was Belteshazzar, and whose name was Shimea, and Shimea, and Shimea, and David, and Samuel, and the prophets:
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And it came to pass from that day, that he made it a statute and a statute for Israel unto this day.
Who is it that should hear thee? for he shall be given to him that went to the fight, and to him that stood by the spoil; for all these are the same.
and in Hebron, and unto all the places where David and his men dwelt.
Shall I take my bread, and my wine, and the flesh I have prepared for my shearers, and give it to men whence I have no knowledge?
And Saul encamped in the mount of Paran, which is before the wilderness; and David tarried in the wilderness; and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And they called the name of this place Pashur, and there they sacrificed unto Jehovah.
For there was a tabernacle made the first, wherein were the candlesticks, and the table, and the table, which is called the holy.
And the son of Ebedmelech went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city; and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him from the ambush.
If any way I come to the resurrection from among dead,
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, Behold the man whom I spake unto thee of: this same shall reign over my people.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Art thou all thy sons? He answered, There is yet a young man, who keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses in all his house.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain; and they found Saul and his three sons lying in mount Gilboa.
And it came to pass on the fifth day, that he rose early in the morning, and the young woman's father said, I pray thee, please, I pray thee, eat thyself. And they tarried still till the day refused, and the two of them eat.
And he divided therein also a little house for the god, and made an ephod, and they came to him, and said, A priest's raiment, and his idols; and he filled the hand of one of his sons, and he became his priest.
And the children of Zebulun dwelt in wait, even to death, and to Naphtali in the high places of the field.
And when the men of Ashdod saw it, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us; for his hand is heavy upon us, and our god Dagon.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played the harp with his hand upon that day, and the spear was in his hand.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people into three bands; and in the morning watch they came to the camp of the children of Ammon, and they came to fight against them till the heat of the day: and they that were not put to death were scattered in every direction, so that they were not gathered together.
For indeed he was sick, coming near to death; but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also upon me, that I should not suffer grief.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Behold, women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came forth, and the vessels of the young men are holy; and the thing is common, and the more; for this day is hallowed in the vessels.
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, And who is faithful among all thy servants, as David, who is the king's son in law, and goeth at thy commandment, and is honorable in thine house?
And she answered and said unto him, Thou hast mocked me, and hast told me lies: tell me that thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shalt weave the hair of my head with the skirt of the house.
The mirth of Saul came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid in the mount of Paran, which is before the wilderness?
And she said unto her, Go in peace; and let the God of Israel answer thee unto the prayer which thou hast made unto him.
And they found themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes wherein they were hid.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he came in, and went out before them.
And the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, and the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And they possessed all the coasts of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto the river Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and came near unto the door of the tower, to burn it with fire.
But we are not of them that return to destruction, but of those that believe to the salvation of the soul.
And of all these men were seven hundred chosen men, who were left in their hand; all these mad stones were upon their heads, and they did not depart.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped there; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
But wheresoever they went, the hand of Jehovah was upon them, as he had said, and as he had sworn unto them; and they were greatly grieved.
In those days there was no king in Israel, And every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
Neither doth any man take the honour to himself, but he that is called by God, as Aaron was.
And Saul went up to his house at Gibeah, and the people whose heart God had touched went with him.
And the Jebusites dwelt in Jerusalem, and the children of Benjamin did not dispossess; and the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Benjamin, even unto this day.
and the golden altar, and the ark of the testimony round about, with gold, in which were a golden bowl of the manna, and the rod of Aaron that had budded, and the staves of the covenant.
And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, depart from among the Amalekites, that I consume not thee with them; for thou hast shown mercy unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of the land of Egypt. And the Kenites left among the Amalekites.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah that belonged to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
being confident of this very thing, that he who hath begun a good work in you shall perfect it unto the day of Christ Jesus.
But the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped, and fled to David.
And she said, Oh that God thy handmaid may find grace in thy sight. And the woman went on her way, and ate, and her face was no more changed.
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite from Bethlehem in Judah, and I seek a dwelling place.
But this is an everlasting priesthood for ever.
And Jacob died by faith; and every one of the children of Joseph blessed, and bowed down upon the top of his staff.
And Jehoash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye plead for Baal? shall ye deliver him? he that shall plead for him, let him be put to death while it is yet the morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself, because he hath cast down his altar.
And the Philistines fell upon Saul, and upon his sons, and slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchijah, the sons of Saul.
And the man said unto him, Now when thy words come true, what shall I do?
For we are the circumcision, that worship by Spirit of God, and boast in Christ Jesus, and trust not in flesh.
And David said unto Abimelech, Is there not under thy hand thy spear or thy sword? for I have not brought my sword nor my weapon with me, for the king's business hasted.
And they said unto them, Come and be our captain, that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
And when he came, behold, Eli was sitting upon his couch by the wayside, because his heart was moved over the ark of God: and the man came to report in the city, and all the city cried out.
Brethren, let your lovingkindness continue.
For this cause we should hear the things which are come to our ears; for fear lest we be moved away.
And he said, The Lord is witness against you, and the man upon whom he hath anointed the holy oil is witness this day, that ye have seen no wrong in me. And they said, He is witness.
and, behold, even as thy soul hath been great this day in mine eyes, so is my soul great in the sight of Jehovah, and he will deliver me out of all trouble.
And they turned before the men of Israel into the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in their midst.
Wherefore I have sworn unto the house of Heli, that the iniquity of his house shall not be purged with sacrifices nor offerings for ever.
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and raiseth up;
But I hope, in the Lord Jesus, that Timothy send quickly unto you, that I also may be of good spirit, having known the things concerning you,
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians, the Amorites, the children of Ammon, and the Philistines?
and if ye do evil, ye and your king shall be consumed.
And Saul encamped in the mount of Paran, which is before the wilderness; but David abode in the wilderness; and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
For when the people were numbered, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
For I beseech you, even more, I pray you, in the hope of my coming unto you.
I will shoot three arrows upon the sides thereof, As I have shot at a mark.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice, and the woman said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? art thou Saul?
but it seemed to me to send to you, my brother, to deal with me, my brother, who hath taken me in the work, and in the battle, and thy servant, with thee, for help.
And thou hast declared this day how thou hast dealt well with me; forasmuch as Jehovah hath delivered me into thy hand, thou hast not killed me.
And he went up, and went up by the way of him that dwelt in tents eastward, and ran, and fell, and smote the people; for the army was established.
And they were stoned with stones, and were tempted, and died by the sword; and they came about in rams' skins, and in the skin of badgers, and in the poor, and in affliction.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew in that day that the Edomites were there, that he should tell Saul: for I am the blood of all thy father's house.
And Jonathan said unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will do for thee.
And the king sent to call Abimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all the house of his father, the priests that were at Nob; and they came all of them to the king.
For concerning them that were once glorified, and had received the gift of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Do not forget hospitality to strangers; for in doing this, some have gathered angels without knowledge.
For in that he suffered, being tempted, he is able to help those that are tempted.
The horns of the mighty are broken, And the stumbling is girded with strength.
by the way which he hath sanctified for us, a new and life, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
So they sent and gathered together all the princes of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to his own place, that it may not kill us, and our people: for there was a great destruction throughout all the city: and the hand of God was very heavy there.
And they said unto him, We have come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And he said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye may not come against me.
But if ye do evil, ye shall be consumed, both ye and thy king.
saying, Verily I will bless thee, and I will greatly multiply thee.
Now therefore, take heed, I pray you, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
From the heavens was the battle, And the stars from their courses.
And Jehovah will give to every man the reward of his righteousness and of his faith; because Jehovah hath given you into my hand this day, and I would not put out my hand against the man that was anointed with the holy oil.
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan, and said with an oath, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
And Saul returned from following the Philistines, and it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go out against the Philistines, and fight against him: for thou art only a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
And they forgat Jehovah their God, and sold them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
The ministers of that which is a copy of the matter, and the image of the things in heaven, as Moses, when he began to make the tabernacle, had commanded of God; for, behold, he saith, that thou make all the pattern that thou sawest in the mount.
Let our lord command, we pray thee, thy servants before thee, they seek a skilful man playing the harp, and it cometh to pass, in the spirit of mourning God, that he hath played with his hand, and it is well with thee.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah: do unto me whatsoever thou hast said; for Jehovah hath sent a full reward upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when he was come to a troop, that the Philistines cried out with a loud voice; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords that were upon his hands were as flax that was burned with fire, and his bands fell from off his hands.
Speak ye, ye that ride upon white asses, and ye that sit in luxury, and walk in the way.
And David left not a man, nor a woman, to bring them again to Gath, saying, Lest they tell us, saying, David did thus, and so. And all the days that he dwelt in the land of the Philistines.
And Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their place.
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why art ye come out to battle in array? am I not a captain of the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? choose a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
For the princes of Israel took the lead in Israel; For the people willingly willingly, Jehovah.
And the Philistines stood on the mount on the one side; and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side; and the valley was between them.
and to them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David went up, he and his men.
And one in a certain place kept witness, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him, or a son of man, that thou wouldest look after him?
And it came to pass in Israel in Israel, that the man went to inquire of God, saying, Come, and we will go unto the prophet; for the prophet of this day is called the prophet.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not save you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And he said, I am he that came out of the battle, and fled out of the field this day. And he said unto him, What is there, my son?
And this is the covenant which I will make unto them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give my judgments in their hearts, and in their heart I will write them:
And Samuel took a lamb, and offered it for a burnt offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
And Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, and blessed Jacob.
And it came to pass, that the vision was great, that Moses said, I am shaking with fear.
And unto Hananiah he gave a double portion, because he loved Hananiah, though Jehovah had shut her womb.
And the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and all the children of the east, and all the children of the east, were as locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand that is upon the seashore for multitude.
Jesus Christ both both and this day and ever.
And put out the power of the fire, and escaped the mouth of the sword, and were strong out of his infirmities, and became strong in battle, and set up the tents of the strangers.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat: but his servants, with the woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
Jehovah, when thou wentest down from Seir, when thou didst come out of the land of Edom, the earth trembled, the heavens poured down, the skies poured down water.
Shall a man arise to pursue thee, and to seek thy life, and the life of my lord be bound in the breast of the living with Jehovah thy God: but as for the life of thine enemy, he will sling it from the mouth of the sling.
And David enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And David took his wife Ahinoam of Jezreel, to be his wife: these two were his wives.
And she said unto him, How can thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me where thy great strength is.
And he went out of the city of Bethlehem, and desired to sojourn wheresoever he should find. And when he was come to mount Ephraim, as he went on his way, and had turned aside a little in the house of Michmas,
And Saul said, They have brought them out of the Amalekites; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the cattle, to sacrifice unto Jehovah your God: we have utterly destroyed the rest.
of whom the world was not worthy, in the wilderness, and in the mountains, and in the caves, and in the holes of the earth;
And he returned after the days to take her, and turned aside to see the dead bodies of the lion, and, behold, they were a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and as honey.
For God is true, and will not turn away from him the remembrance of thy work, and of thy love for his name, in the help which thou gavest unto the saints.
Say, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk in the way.
And she said unto Shammah, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies. Now tell me, I pray thee, with what thou mayest be bound.
And they made a covenant before Jehovah; and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
As for thy asses, which have wandered for three days, thou shalt not remember them; for they are come again. For whom are all the desire in Israel? are they not for you, and for your father's house?
And every priest shall stand daily, and shall offer the same sacrifice many times, which can not be cleansed.
And the Levite, the husband of the dead, answered, and said, I came to the land of Benjamin, in the land of Benjamin, and the wife of my handmaid, for the counsel of the night.
Speak, I pray thee, in the ears of all the people of Shechem, which is better for you, that seventy persons, all the sons of Jerubbesheth, who rule over you, or that one rule over you? And remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And they gave him ten talents of silver out of the house of Baal, with which he hired to himself the needy, and they followed him.
For he hath said, He hath made the first old, and that which is become old, and is old.
And that night Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down to the camp, for I have delivered it into thy hand.
Thou hast made him small less than the angels; Thou hast crowned him with glory and honor, And hast set him over the works of thy hands.
And the man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law besought him, and he abode there again.
For the glory of Moses more than Moses is accounted worthy; forasmuch as the glory of the house is he who built it.
And blessed be thou, who hast kept me to day, from coming to blood, and the vengeance of my own hand.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not do wickedly: for this man cometh into my house, and do not this folly.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the Holy Place.
Neither doth the excellency of Israel lie nor repent; for he is not a man to be moved.
And because I am persuaded of this, I know that I shall abide, and continue with all of you for your progress and joy in the faith,
And he shall take thy bondmen, and thy maidservants, and thy young men, and thy asses, and give them unto his own work.
Now it came to pass one day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man that bore his armor, Come, let us go over to the camp of the Philistines, which is on the other side; but he did not tell his father.
Then David and his men, that were about six hundred, arose, and departed from Keilah, and went wheresoever they should go; and it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah; and he bare to go forth.
And he turned away from him, and spake again: and the people answered him the same way.
But one in a certain place hath testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And he brought the tribute unto Eglon; and he made it very fat.
who said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which thou hast put aside for thyself, and what thou hast sworn in mine ears, behold, I have, and they are with me. And she said unto him, Blessed be my son by Jehovah.
For this reason be let this be in you, which also is in Christ Jesus:
And he sent unto them a prophet, and said, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage;
And now give up the men, the sons of Belial, who are in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and put away evil from Israel: but the children of Benjamin would not hearken to the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man cometh and enquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, was over the house: and they consulted the Lord, and said, Shall we go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin our brethren, or shall we cease? And Jehovah said unto them, Go up, for to-morrow I will deliver them into your hands.
And David restrained his men with his words, and did not let them rise up against Saul: but Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, shew me a sign, that thou speakest with me.
She hath put her hand to the nails, and her right hand to the hammer; and with the hammer she smote to Sisera, and she smote off his head, when she had slain, and smote through his palaces.
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel: and the land had rest fourscore years.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee unto me this day:
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, Whither went thou? They answered, To seek the asses, and not finding them we went to Samuel.
For also with my chain ye comforted, and the spoil of your goods with joy, knowing that ye have in yourselves a better substance in the heavens, and in your patience.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Art these all the young men? And he said, There is yet the youngest remaining, and, behold, he feedeth the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit at table till he come hither.
And he smote them with a great slaughter, and went down, and dwelt in the den of the rock of Etam.
And the people answered him, So shall it be done unto him that overcometh him.
And this is the covenant which I shall give unto them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my law in their heart, and I will write them upon their heart.
And, behold, Saul came after oxen out of the field, and he said, What aileth the people that weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And he said unto them, Watch me, and do likewise: behold, when I come unto the uttermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
and if a man be risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be bound in the sheaf of the living with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies shall he sling them out of the sling.
And the woman said unto him, Behold thou knowest all that Saul hath done, and how he hath taken away the magicians and the soothsayers out of the land: why then dost thou lay a snare for my life, to cause me to be put to death?
when your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.
And we desire every one of you to shew the diligence for the full assurance of your hope until the end,
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw that he was a child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
And it shall be, when Jehovah will do unto my lord according to all the good that he spake concerning thee, and set thee over Israel,
And because of this he ought, even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
And Abigail took two hundred loaves of bread, and two wine, and five sheep, and five measures of barley, and a hundred sin-cakes, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and put them on the asses.
And the men of Ziph came to Saul in Gibeah, saying, Behold, David is hid in the mount of Paran, which is over the wilderness.
And there were also the Hebrews with the Philistines before that time, who had gone up with them into the camp round about; and they also were with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Shushan king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served for eight years.
And Saul was very wroth, and this thing was displeasing in his eyes, and he said, They have given David ten thousands, and they have given to me a thousand; what can he have more but the kingdom?
For there is a blessing in thy heart, and upon thee, who hath kept me to-day from the blood of blood, and from taking into my hand the iniquity of my sin.
And Saul answered and said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my house, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? why then speakest thou unto me?
And David prospered in all his ways: and Jehovah was with him.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a Levite in the hill-country of Ephraim, who took to him a concubine from Bethlehem in Judah.
And the servant said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and a man worthy of honour; and all that he saith shall be done: and let us go thither, that he may tell us the way to go.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak with David secretly, saying, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son-in-law.
For such a high priest became us, holy, undefiled, undefiled, separated from sinners, and became higher than the heavens:
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were on the roof about three thousand men and women, that were beholding the appearance of Samhar.
that ye may judge and approve the things which are more excellent, that ye may be pure and without fault for Christ's day.
not as if I had now received the reward, or was made perfect; but I walk in the hope that I may come to the knowledge of that which I have been made to Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, when she was grieved in her soul, weeping bitterly, she made her supplication unto Jehovah.
And Saul chose for himself three thousand out of Israel, and two thousand men with Saul in Michmash, and in the hill-country of Bethel; and there was a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the remnant of the people he sent to his tents.
And Bela went down with his father and his mother to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a young lion roared against him.
Know ye that Timothy is set free, with whom, if he may come more, I will see thee.
But Jonathan had not heard the oath of his father with the host; and he stretched out the staff that was in his hand, and he dipped it into the honeycomb; and he put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes shined.
And the lamp of God had not gone out, and Samuel had laid down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
For they that were once lightened, have tasted also the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Arise, and fall upon us; for as is the man, so is his strength; and as for Zebah, and for Zebah, and for Zalmunna, and he took the bullocks that were upon their camels.
And he answered her, Go, and he sent her away for two months: and when she went with her kindred, and with her companions, she mourned her virginity in the mountains.
In that day will I accomplish against thee all that I have spoken concerning his house; I will begin and make an end.
And he went up from thence, and came to Phanuel; and he spake the same things unto the men of that place. And they answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered.
And Enoch was crucified by faith, that he should not see death, but was not found, because God had interpreted him: for before that he had the testimony that he had pleased God.
When they had said before, they sacrificed, and burnt offerings, and burnt offerings for sin; and they were not willing to please thee, because they offered according to the law.
Do not be instructed with other customs, for it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats, which hath not attained to them that have been occupied therein.
And he said unto them, Out of the abundance came forth bread: out of the mighty came forth sweet; and they could not three days declare the parable.
And Saul said unto Bidkar, Hear, thou son of Ahitub, and he said, Here am I, my lord.
And Jonathan rose from the table in the heat of wrath, and did not eat bread on the second day of the new moon; for he was grieved for David; for his father put him to shame.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea, As by the dry land, Which the Egyptians sought.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands, and walked upon his feet, and his armor after him; and some fell before Jonathan; and others his armourbearer slew as he followed him.
And Adam besought Jehovah, and said, O my Lord, let the man of God that thou sentest come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. And the woman was wise, and fair; but the man was stubborn, and he was as his heart.
I will remember their iniquity, and their iniquities no more.
And she said, The glory is gone out of Israel: for the ark of God is taken.
And he said unto them, Thus saith he, Thus saith Micah with me, and hired me, and I am his priest.
For if we do evil, after we have known the truth, there is no more sin.
For ye came not to a mountain that could be touched, and that was burned with fire, and to darkness, and darkness, and tempest,
and those that were in Hormah, even those that were in them, and Ashan, and Ashan,
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees;
And David fled, and went away, and came to Ramah, to Samuel, and gave him a account of all that Saul had done unto him. And he went and dwelt in the camp.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, ye shall not send it without an offering, but ye shall send him a sin-offering with it: then thou shalt have peace again, and it shall be clear unto you why the weight of his hand is not taken away from thee.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and served him not.
And he said unto them, Can I forsake my wine, and speak with God and men, and be exalted among the trees?
And the man arose, and his concubine, and his servant; and his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, said unto him, I pray thee, I pray thee, the day of the evening, I pray thee, tarry the night, and lodge the night, and tarry the night, and be merry, and arise early for your journey, and go to thy house.
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; He humbleth, and he exalteth.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favour in thine eyes, shew me a sign, that it is thou that speakest with me.
For this cause let us go on from the beginning of the Christ to abound, not to build again that which is of corruptible works, and faith in God.
And the name of the children of Israel was six years for six years: and there was a fifth of the Gileadites to his death; and his body was put to rest in his city Mizpah.
And he turned back from the graven images which at Gilgal, and said, I have spoken a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Be quiet. And go out from him all that stood by him.
and called the name of the city Dan after the name of their father, who was the son of Israel, which before was called.
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah, as far as Shur, which is beyond Egypt.
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and plundered their tents.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came to the camp, that all Israel lifted up a great shout, and the earth shook.
By faith Abel offered unto God a sacrifice exceeding much of Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God gave testimony to his gifts; and by him he died yet.
And when the children of Israel saw this in the battle ( for the children of Benjamin thought they fled, and pursued them with strength, and slew thirty men of their army);
And there appeared unto the woman an angel of Jehovah, and he said unto her, Behold, thou art tender, and hast not borne children; but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And they took two men of Midian to Oreb, and beat them at Oreb; and they smote them at the rock of Oreb, and in the winepress; and they pursued Midian, and carried the heads of Oreb and over them on the other side of the Jordan.
For it is impossible that the blood of the bulls and the goats shall take away sins.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring thee up? And he saith, Bring up to me.
And he said unto them, Micah hath dealt with me, and hired me, and I am his priest.
And the people came to Bethel, and stood there until evening before God, and wept bitterly.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred men, arose, and went forth from Keilah, and went wheresoever they should go: and Saul told that David had escaped from Keilah; and he set up there.
And David arose, and went, he and his men, and smote with the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought in their foreskins, and they set them before the king to be son-in-law to the king; and Saul gave him Michal his daughter for a wife.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them into pieces, and sent them through all the borders of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, Whosoever goeth forth after Saul, and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went forth as one man.
And the princes of the Philistines brought unto her seven cords, which he spake of, with which she bound him.
And Saul returned, and went out after David, and went to meet the Philistines: for they called that place, the Rock of the camp.
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide, and continue with you all for your sakes and joy of faith:
And Saul cast out his spear, and said, I will make David a thousand of David to the wall. But David took his hands double.
And there was a certain wise, of the family of the children of Dan, whose name was Adam; and his wife was barren and barren.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
But God hath given grace unto us, that they should not be perfected from us.
And he said, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, the king of the Amalekites, I pray thee, and behold, the great bitterness of death.
Behold, I will put the wool of a sheep upon the threshing-floor; if there be dew upon the wool only, and all the earth is dry, then I will know that it is thy purpose to deliver Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken.
For it is not for the blood of the bulls, Nor for the blood of the goats.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who goeth up for us unto the Canaanites, at the beginning, to fight against it?
And Enoch was ninety years old, and his eyes were set, that he could not see.
by faith he that is called Abraham, to go forth into a place which he was to receive for an inheritance; and he went out, and knew not whither he went.
And Jehovah called again, and called by name, and called to him, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called, my son, lie down again.
And the son of Amasa said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? is not the captain of the captain of Hamor the father of Shechem, that we should serve him?
Oh that men would put this people under my hand, that I might remove Abimelech out of the way? And it was said unto Abimelech, Gather together the multitude of the people, and come.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man of whom I spake unto thee, he shall have power over my people.
Speak no more with excellency; Let not the pomp of thy mouth proceed out of thy mouth: For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, And by him is the work of his hands.
And his mother made him a hundred robe, and took him unto him every year, when she came with her husband for the year.
but did empty himself, the form of a servant having taken, in the likeness of men,
And the old man said, Peace be with thee: let all thy need be mine; only take not thy rest in the street.
Wherefore it ought him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful priest before God, that he might be a propitiation for the sins of the people.
but comfort one day by day, as long as it is called, that none of you be made hard by the error of sin.
And Adam arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake unto the woman? And he said, I am.
Neither is an idol found in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make war or spear.
And the woman hasted, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me that day.
And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for they despised the offering of Jehovah.
And the armed army of the Philistines went out unto Michmash.
And David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
So the law that went before is laid on one side, because it was weak and without profit.
If therefore ye have dealt well and without fault with Baal, and with his house, rejoice ye this day in Abimelech, and let him rejoice in you.
Now therefore, take heed therefore, ye yourselves, and drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing:
And he restored the silver to his mother; and his mother took two hundred silver, and gave them to the goldsmith; and he made of them a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
For ye have not yet resisted the blood of blood:
But all Israel and Judah loved David: for he went forth, and went before them.
And Saul said unto his servant, Behold, we go, but what shall we bring to the man? for the bread is gone out of our sacks, and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What have we with us?
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Bethlehem, and was there four months.
Now David was the son of the Ephrathah of Beth-lehem of Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
for all seek their own things, not the things of Christ Jesus.
And he smote among the men of Bethshemesh, because they looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote of the people seventy men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And he smote their tents among them, and utterly destroyed all that were in the edge of Gaza; and they left nothing in Israel for food of life, nor sheep, nor oxen, nor asses.
For we enter into the remnant which believe; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest, though the works were fulfilled since the foundation of the world.
And David came, and Abishai, unto the people by night; and, behold, Saul was lying in the way, and his spear smote upon the earth at his head, and his spear, and the people round about him.
And she said unto her father, Grant me only this which I desire: let me go, that I may go about the mountains for two months, and weep my virginity with my brethren.
And Judah went to the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron, and the name of Hebron beforetime; and they smote thence Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And when the messengers were come in, they found an image upon the bed, and a he-goat's skin at his head.
And it came to pass, when he turned his shoulder from Samuel, that God turned unto him another heart, and all these signs came on that day.
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast was prolonged; and on the seventh day he told her, because she pressed him sore; and she told the words to the children of her people.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which is good in thy sight: tarry until thou hast weaned him; but Jehovah fulfil his word. And the woman abode, and gave her the nurse, until she was weaned.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together against Israel, saying, Thou shalt certainly go out with me in the camp, thou and thy people.
And he ran to Eli, and said, Behold I, for thou hast called me. And he said, I called not; go, and sleep; and he went and slept.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We are sinners; do unto us what seemeth good unto you: save us this day.
And he increased his numbers continually, and with a strong hand prevailed over Jabin king of Canaan, till they had destroyed him.
Shall the king of Israel come out? for whom seekest thou? For a dead dog is a dog.
And David said, By the living Jehovah, Jehovah will destroy him; and the natural day of his death shall come, and he shall go into the battle, and shall come to his end.
And here, behold, the men that die, receive a garment; but there he speaketh, that he liveth.
And Saul said, Bring hither all the corners of the people, and know, and see, that this sin hath come to pass.
Let nothing be done through strife, or in glory; but in humility let each man esteem more better than himself.
that my bonds might be manifested in Christ in all the praetorium, and in all men.
Go therefore, and go in peace, that thou mayest not provoke the Philistines to wrath.
And they told Saul, and sent other messengers, and they prophesied; and Saul addeth, and sent messengers a third time, and they prophesied.
Awake, aha, awake, and awake; awake, sing: Arise, arise, and take away, and take away captive, that took thee captive, O daughter of Abinadab.
And she left her hand to the nails, and her right hand to the hammer; and she smote them, and sought in his head a place for the wound, and smote in his palaces.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thine house.
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which should be spoken after.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, even because we have forsaken our God, and also served the Baalim.
Jehovah be the judge, and let him judge between me and thee, and let him see, and plead my cause; let him judge me against thee.
And the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, and said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee as his wife.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people safe, and to a great land: for God hath given it into your hands, a place where there is no pleasure in the land.
And he took ten of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him; and he feared to do it by day, because of the people of his father and the men of the city by night.
And he went away from the prophets, and came to the house.
And his mother shall make him a little robe, and she shall bring it unto him from time to time; and she shall come up with her husband to sacrifice the sacrifice.
And Joram the son of Joash went up from the fight.
who shall also transform the body of our confusion unto the body of his glory, according to the working of his power, even to himself all things.
And they answered and said, I saw the Edomites that were over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send unto me David thy son, who is with the flock.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he oppressed the children of Israel.
And Saul came to Amalek, and set an ambush in the valley.
without father, without parents, having no genealogies, having neither begotten of days nor end of life, but made as the Son of God, even a priest continually.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim heard that the Philistines fled; and they also followed after them in the battle.
For if the first covenant had been as good, there was no place for the second.
And they compassed the children of Benjamin round about, and chased them, and stamped them at their rest, even unto Gibeah unto the sunrising.
for he served not to angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
And Deborah said unto the Cushite, Arise; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thine hand: is not Jehovah gone out before thee? And he went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered in that day out of the cities six thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
and see, and behold, the daughters of Shiloh dance in the dance; come out of the vineyards, and take for yourselves a wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go unto the land of Benjamin.
And when they were near Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
For whom Jehovah loveth, he correcteth; and every son whom he receiveth.
who have been made, not according to the law of the law, but after the power of an endless life.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him before seeing that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, and the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is he also among the prophets?
And they sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Obed was come into Shechem with his brethren, and sought to set the city against thee.
And David was the youngest; and the three elder went after Saul.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely he cometh up to defy Israel; and the man that killeth him, the king will make him rich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And they said unto him, Nay, we will bind thee, and deliver thee into their hand; we will not kill thee. So they bound him with two chains, and they brought him up out of the rock.
And he sent messengers into all Manasseh, and it was called after him; and they sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali, and they came up to meet them.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these gods, which smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness?
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee and come; for the Philistines have made a raid against the land.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days' tidings, that we may send messengers unto all the coasts of Israel; and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come out unto thee.
and my God shall supply all your need, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus:
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and have cut down the Asherah that was by it.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and in those days the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day all their inheritance fell not unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And they drew near the Jebusites, and the day went down, and the young man said unto his lord, Come, I pray thee, and we turn aside unto this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And it came to pass, when the two months were expired, that she returned to her father; and he did unto her as he had vowed, and she knew no man. And there came a pattern in Israel, and a custom was kept.
and see, and know all the places where he lieth, and come ye again unto me, saying, that I may go with you; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out through the thousands of Judah.
And Micah said, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, because I have the Levite for the priest.
And the border of the Amorite was from the ascent of the scorpion, and the rock, and the high places.
And he said, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
When thou goest from me this day, thou shalt meet two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin, at the border of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek; and, behold, thy father hath sent the matter of the asses, and is anxious about you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And Jehovah said unto Jeremiah, The people are yet few, bring them to the waters, and I will try them; and of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, let him go; whom I shall not go, let him return.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou give them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not that day.
For to which of the angels said he ever, Thou art my son: this day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be unto him for father; and he shall be unto me for a son.
But to what we have come, by the same rule, the same thing think;
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, saying, Bring hither the ephod unto me. And Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey, and what stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye have not found my riddle.
And Saul went down upon the earth, and was afraid of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had not taken bread all that day nor all that night.
And they removed the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
For he of whom these things are said shall come from another tribe, whereof no man hath ever offered at the altar.
And as for me, while I am yet alive, thou mayest deal kindly with me, as Jehovah is gracious, and keep me from death.
And Saul said, God do so, and also more; for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
But give comfort to one another every day as long as it is yet this day, that no one among you may be made hard with the deceit of sin:
And it shall come to pass, when their fathers and their brethren come unto us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be good unto them for our sakes; for we have not kept to every man his wife in the war: for ye have not given unto them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
And at the time of her death, the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
And the battle was hard against Saul; and the archers found him, and they fell with bow; and he was troubled with the archers.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard it, and were afraid of the Philistines.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: for with me thou art in safety.
Have I then begun to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute any thing to his servant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy servant knoweth not all this, less or more.
and at Nob, the city of the priests, smote him with the edge of the sword, both men and women, and children and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And they took their bones, and buried them under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen that Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand in the cave; and some have told me to kill thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is Jehovah's anointed.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring ye the portion which I have given thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it beside thee.
And the Lord said unto the king of Israel, Take thee down to the waters, and I will put them to the water, that he may know thee there: and whosoever I say shall go with thee, and he that I say shall not go.
And the angel of Jehovah came to the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, though thou hast not borne children, thou shalt be with child, and shalt bear a son.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David: for he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works are very good toward thee.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, the son of Levi, the son of Levi; in one day they shall die both of them.
And Samuel dwelt until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel was afraid to shew forth the vision.
And Japhlet fled from among his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Ishtob; and the law was with them, and they went out with him.
And he had forty sons, and thirty sons, who rode upon seventy asses: and he judged Israel eight years.
And the princes of the Philistines gathered themselves together, to offer great sacrifices to Dagon their god, and to make merry, saying, Our god hath delivered our enemy Jonathan into our hands.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel: and the land had rest fourscore years.
But after the dead, the children of Israel turned again, and committed whoredom with the Baalim; and they made a covenant with Baal, that he should be their god.
And he knew not at all things; for Jonathan and David knew the matter.
For the daughters of Israel went and lamented the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite for forty days.
So from that day he made it a statute and a statute unto Israel unto this day.
And the king rose up early, and all the people with him, and all the people with him; and the camp of Midian was in the valley on the north side of the hill.
that I was wroth with this generation, and said, Their heart is in error at all times, and they know not my ways;
And this is the word, but now it is necessary: that the things which are shaken are removed, as of things that are made, that those things which can not be moved may remain.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan shewed him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him, as before.
And Samuel took Saul and his young man, and brought them into the chamber, and gave them a place at the head of them that were called; and they were about thirty men.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and an army as the sand on the seashore; and they came up, and encamped at Michmash, on the east side of Beth Aven.
And Jonathan smote the band of the Philistines that were in Geba; and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And it was told unto the giant, saying, Jonathan is come in hither. And they went about, and lay wait for him all the night at the gate of the city, and kept themselves silent all the night, saying, Until the light of the morning we have slain him.
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt; neither did we miss any thing, as long as we went with them, when we were in the field.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed is Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me.
And Shammah the son said, With the edge of a ass of an ass be heaps, and I have slain a thousand of an ass.
And Jabez, the wife of Heber, took the curtains of the tent, and took the hammer in her hand, and went unto him gently, and smote the girdle into his temples, and it sat down in the earth; and he slept, and was weary; and he died.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and tidings came to Abimelech.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them. But the lad drew not his sword, because he was yet a child.
And the Amorites afflicted the children of Dan in the mount, and gave them not to go down to the valley.
And the woman came at the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
And Jonathan rose up from the midst of the table, and did not eat on the second day of the new moon, because he grieved David, because his father had humbled him.
And the woman came to Saul; for he was very much troubled, and said unto him, Behold thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand; and I have hearkened unto the words that thou hast spoken unto me.
And again he spake, and said, Behold, they come down from the high part of the land, and another troop shall come by the way of the oak.
Neither shall they teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know ye Jehovah: for all shall know me from the least to the greatest of them.
For every commandment, according to the law, by Moses, unto all the people, took the blood of the bullocks, and the goats, and the water, and the hyssop, and the hyssop, and all the people with them.
For though ye ought to be teachers of this time, ye have need of one to teach you again the beginning elements of the words of God, and ye have need of milk, not solid food.
And Abigail saw David, and hasted and came down from off the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the earth.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And she sware, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt remember the sorrow of thy servant, and turn not away from me, but keep me in mind, and give me a child, then will I give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and his locks shall never be cut off.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, I can not tell.
making my joy perfect in the same mind, having the same love, being in peace and one mind;
Be free from the love of money, and good in the things which thou hast; for he hath said, I will be with thee at all times.
And it came to pass, when they were at Shiloh, that no man was found there.
And I said unto thee, I am Jehovah your God: ye shall not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not hearkened to my voice.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in a troop.
And the young men went and went, and came, and told him all these words.
And the woman came as the morning appeareth, and fell at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until the day.
Behold, I am, testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I robbed? or of whose hand have I taken it? Or of whose hand have I hid my eyes therewith? And I will restore it unto thee.
And he said unto all the people, Hast thou seen him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, saying, Long live the king!
And it came to pass, that the name of the Edomites, which was set over the servants of Saul, saith, I have seen the son of Jesse coming in to Nob, and unto Ahimelech the son of Ahitub:
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa.
And he sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to fight against Midian, and take from them the waters up to Beth Aven, and the Jordan. And he called out all the men of Ephraim, and took the waters up to Beth-Baal, and the Jordan.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me this day: and to-morrow will I let thee go, and tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah went upon David from that day on. And Samuel arose, and went to Ramah.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and took the city, and the people that were in it he slew; and he brake down the city, and sowed it salt.
And the power of the children of Israel increased against Jabin king of Canaan, until he was cut off.
For he is counted rather than Moses, because he that built the house is more honorable than the house.
Yea, I beseech thee, an instrument of truth, help them, who have contended with me in the glad tidings, and in the best part, and also my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
who hope we have the measure of the soul, perfect and faithful, and that entereth into that place within the veil;
So Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel; and for eighty years the land had peace.
And Amasa went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah from the daughters of the Philistines.
And Abigail came to Nabal the Carmelite; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, as the feast of a king, and the heart of Nabal was merry; for he was very drunken: and she told him nothing or more until the morning.
then shalt thou go on from thence; and when thou comest to the oak of Tabor, thou shalt see three men going up unto God to Bethel, and one with him three kids of the goats, and three cakes of bread, and another a skin full of wine.
And this is the covenant which I will establish unto them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give them a law in their hearts, and I will write them also in their filthiness.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I again go out to battle with the sons of Benjamin, my brother, or do I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up, for to-morrow I will give him into thy hand.
And Saul commanded his servants to speak unto David secretly, saying, Behold, thou favorest the king, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son in law.
who through faith overcame kingdoms, did righteousness, did righteousness, and hid the mouth of lions;
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he blew the trumpet: and Abiezer was gathered together to follow him.
which God, willing to shew to the heirs of the promise which he had made, confirmed it by an oath,
They fought from heaven; The stars in their courses fought against Sisera.
Behold, my father, the skirts of thy garment in my hand, that when I cut off the skirts of thy garment, I would not put out my hand against thee. Go, and see, that there is no evil in mine hand, nor iniquity, neither have I sinned against thee: but thou liest in wait for my life, to take it away.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Gather now, and see that is gone from us: and they gathered together, and behold, Jonathan, and his armourbearer were not there.
And ye shall put forth the power of fire, and escape from the edge of the sword; and they shall be strong when they are feeble, and shall be full of power in battle, and shall scatter the nations.
And Saul said, Cast me between me and Jonathan my son: and Jonathan is taken.
From the day that the ark abode in Kiriath Jearim, the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, that I may give thy flesh to the birds of heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would keep the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
who serve unto the pattern and the shadow of the heavens, as Moses was instructed to make the tabernacle: for behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern that are shewn thee in the mountain.
And the border went up toward the side of Michmash, in Michmash, and the south toward Geba.
And he answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in mine eyes as a messenger of God: only the princes of the Philistines have said, He goeth not up with us to battle.
But a man put not his hand to his mouth for fear of the curse.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? and why are ye come to me now when ye are in trouble?
And we shall come to a people that is confident, into a broad country; and Jehovah will deliver the place unto us, in which there is no pleasure in the field.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog that thou comest unto me with staves? And the Philistines took David by his gods.
And it came to pass between the fords, that Jonathan sought to go over unto the host of the Philistines; and there was a sharp rock upon the one side, and a flint on the other side: and the name of the one was altered, and the name of the other.
For it is God that worketh in you both, and worketh according to the good pleasure.
And God did so; for the wool was dry, and there was dew upon all the earth round about.
until now thou hast not given thy blood to sin.
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me pass over, I pray thee, through thy land; and the king of Edom hearkened not; and even unto the king of Moab sent, and he would not be willing; and Israel abode in Kadesh.
and he left the blood of the seventy sons of Baal, and the blood of their blood upon Abimelech their brother, and upon the rest of the princes of the Ethiopians, who helped him.
And it was told Saul, that David was come to Keilah; and Saul said, Jehovah hath delivered him into my hand, and he is shut up into a city, that hath gates and bars.
And before the light of God went forth into the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And he put his hand into his sack, and took a stone, and cast it with the mouth of the sling, and smote it round about the neck of the Philistines: and the stone was fastened in his forehead, and he fell upon his face upon the earth.
Wherefore, seeing we are compassed together with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth overflow us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us;
But if thou art afraid, go down to the camp with thy staff;
even as it is meet for me to think of you all, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence, and concerning the gospel, ye all partake of my grace.
and I have drawn unto thee, unto the river of the river, to Sisera, and to Sisera, and to his chariots, and to his multitude, and have given him into thy hand.
What shall come upon us, if we give not our heart to such a great salvation? the salvation of our fathers first had knowledge of the words of the Lord, and who was made certain unto us by those to whom his word came;
For it is as the sin of divination, and for the rebellious; and as the sin of idols, so that they do not obey: therefore have ye rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king.
God do so, and so, and add more to the enemies of David, if I leave of all that are unto him till the morning, every one that looketh upon the wall.
and the peace of God, which passeth through all understanding, keep your hearts and mind in Christ Jesus.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: leave me alone two months, that I may go and go down upon the mountains, and weep my virginity, I and my companions.
But Hananiah went not up, for she said unto her husband, When the child is weaned, I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah; and he shall abide there for ever.
doing nothing through strife, or in the conceit, but in meekness, and in meekness, than for himself.
For I will be merciful unto their transgressions, Neither will I remember their sin any more.
I repented that I have set up Saul to be king; for he hath turned away from me, and hath not fulfilled my words. And Samuel was much grieved, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
But my God shall supply all your need for his riches in the glory of Christ Jesus.
Therefore I sware in my wrath, If they enter into my rest.
according to my desire and hope, that I should be put to shame in nothing, but with all boldness, even now in my body, whether by life or through death.
But she went not up, for she said unto her husband, I will not go until the child be weaned, and until I carry him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and abide always there.
And he put to the sword at Nob, the city of the priests, and of man, and of the child, and of the child, and of the ass, and of the ass, and of the sheep; and all the souls of the sword.
And David said, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with what Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us alive, and given the troop that came against us into our hand.
Then came up the son of Shelemiah, and his brethren, and went to Shechem; and the men of Shechem believed in him.
And the children of Asher dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the inhabitants of the land; for it did not drive them out.
And thou shalt see the affliction of my tabernacle, and all the good of Israel, and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion and of the bear, will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem strove unto Abimelech.
And Jehovah delivered him with all his host into the hand of Israel; and he slew him, and possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitant of that country.
And Samuel reigned in Israel all the days of his life.
And Samuel said, What aileth the sheep in mine ears, and the voice of the cattle which I hear?
Now therefore, O king, have thy soul's desire, and come down, and we, for our portion shall deliver him into the king's hands.
And Saul spared the people, even the people, and the people, and the best sheep, and the cattle, and the lambs, and the lambs, and all that good, and they were not willing to destroy them; and all the work, despised and wasted, they devoted.
And when these signs come unto thee, do for thyself what thy hand findeth to do, for God is with thee.
Whosoever shall come forth out of the doors of my house, and shall meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, I will offer a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the heads of the Philistines said, What these Hebrews? And he said unto the heads of the Philistines, Is not this David's servant David king of Israel, who hath been with me these days or these years, and I have not found in him any from the day of his fall till this day?
And go not from the right way unto the idols of idols, wherein there is no profit, and no salvation; for they are false.
I strive with the mark of God in Christ Jesus;
And Japhlet went with the elders of Gilead; and the people made him head, and chief over them; and they wrote all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And he kept the passover and the sprinkling of blood, that he that smote the firstborn would not touch them.
and the handle went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the sickle, because he drew not back the sword from his bowels; and it went out the back.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Geshurites, and the Amalekites: for the nations were of old men of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
And the trees went, and anointed a king over themselves; and they said to the olive tree, Rule over us.
And the destroyer went out from the camp of the Philistines three companies: and one went to the way of Ophrah, to the land of Bilhah.
And the children of Israel said, Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son; for thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Midian.
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath said unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me: God doeth so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he said unto thee.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him.
And the elders of the congregation said, What are we to do with wives for the rest of them, seeing that the daughters of Benjamin are dead?
For it is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
And I will send a lad, and say unto him, Go and fetch me the arrows.
And David said unto his servants, Put ye upon your swords, every one of you, and every man with his sword; and David did likewise; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred men watch over their goods.
Now she had lain in the chamber, and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and thou, Shammah son: and he brake the cords, as a piece of flax is broken; and his strength was not known.
then the men that were in Gibeah, that are in Gibeah, so that we may kill them, and make this evil out of Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hear the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And the wicked said, Shall this man be able to save us? And they despised him, and brought him no present; but he lied, as though he had not heard.
And they went down from the high place into the city, and spake with Saul upon the top of the house: and he prepared Saul on the top of the house, and he slept.
And the people sent unto Shiloh, and they brought the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts upon the cherubim, and the two sons of Heli, and Ophni, and Phinehas, with the ark of the covenant of God.
These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but seeing them, and embraced them afar off, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion that I have given thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it aside.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and stamped them; and they had a feast; and they went into the temple of their god; and they ate and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth Anath; but he dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, and of Bethath, became the chief of them.
and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
And the hoofs of the hoofs of the hoofs of the horse, Because of the tumult of their masters.
And it shall come to pass, when thy father sinneth against me, that thou shalt say, Thou shalt say, Thou shalt say unto me, Thou shalt go to Bethlehem his city; for there is a year appointed for all the house of Israel.
And when the people came to the forest, behold, honey was dropping forth; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
I am not mad, I, that ye have brought in this one to be mad by me. Is this one come into my house?
But the child knew not what went on; only Jonathan and David knew it.
and may be found in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness of God through faith,
Go and cry unto the gods whom thou hast chosen; Let them deliver thee in the time of thy trouble.
Now therefore take thy stand, that I may judge thee before Jehovah, according to all the works of Jehovah, which he hath done with both thee and thy fathers.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: leave me alone two months, that I may go and go down to the mountains, and weep my virginity, I and my companions.
and when he was in labor, he began to be unto all that obey him, the cause of eternal salvation.
But I am in a parable between the two, having the desire to depart and to be with Christ, which is far better.
For Jehovah will do unto thee as he spake by me, and he will break thy kingdom out of thy hand, and will give it to thy neighbor David.
And they told Sisera, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, unto mount Tabor.
For thou art also with child, and shalt bring forth a son, and his locks shall not be cut off; for the child is to be separated from his birth, and he shall take up the work of Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with him, and had departed from off Saul.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and an ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, and the child was young.
And Malchijah was yet in the loins of his father, when Malchijah saw him.
In those days there is no king in Israel; Every man doeth that which is right in his own eyes.
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
where thy fathers tempted me, and saw my works,
How much more if the people had well eaten this day of the spoil of their enemies which it hath found; for now the plague is not great among the Philistines.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people spake of stone him; for the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons, and for his daughters; but David was comforted in Jehovah his God.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And the son said unto his father, Get her for me, for she pleaseth me well.
And the men did so; and they took two kine, and oxen, and laded them, and shut up their young ones in their stead.
And it came to pass, because she grieved him with her words all the days, and besought him, and his soul was grieved to death;
For transgression is the sin of divination, and perverseness and sin; because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
And all that remain of thy house shall come down to bow before him for a piece of silver, or for a cake of bread, and shall say, I pray thee, give me one of the priests's office, that I may eat bread bread.
But the man would not tarry the night; and he rose up, and went, and came to Jebus, that is, Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine was with him.
who in the days of his flesh, prayers and supplications unto him that was able to save him from death, with great weeping and tears, having offered up, and had been heard in fear to that which he feared,
And they were a wall unto us both by night and by day; and we were with them the sheep.
And before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that offereth, Give flesh to the priest; for he shall not have boiled flesh of thee, but raw.
And after him was Abdon the son of Harim, the Pirathonite, which was over Israel.
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the valley of the wilderness.
And many have become priests, because they were prevented by the resurrection.
And the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, who went up with them into the camp out of the country round about, they also returned to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And he said, Behold, seventy kings, having their fingers and toes cut off, gathered themselves up under my table: as I have done, so hath God recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
And the king sat upon his throne, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
And it came to pass, when he entered into his house, that he took a knife, and took his wife, and cut her into twelve pieces; and he sent her through all the borders of Israel.
What thou hast done is not good: by the living Lord die thou, because thou hast not kept thy master, the man of whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil: behold, where is the king's spear, and the vessel of water which was by his head?
For they, their cattle, and their tents, would come up as a great number of locusts; they and their camels could not be counted; they came into the land, and devoured it.
And David answered and said to Abimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, Who shall go down with me unto Saul unto the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
And the young men of David turned aside, and returned, and came in, and told him according to all these words.
For some that heard did anger, but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people waxed weary.
and the name of the wife of Saul's wife, Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the head of Abner was Abner the son of Ner, the uncle of Saul.
And he changed his way before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and laid up the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall upon his beard.
According to all the works that they have done from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh, for Jehovah showed himself to Samuel in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
And he said, This is the way of king that shall be thy prince: he will take thy sons, and make them his servants, and his horsemen, and his chariots, and they shall run before his chariots.
And he shall take thy bondmen, and thy maidservants, and thy oxen, and thy ass, and put them in his work.
And Benjamin went out from Gibeah to meet them on the second day; and they smote the children of Israel again, eighteen thousand men to the ground; all these were the sword.
And his armourbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be in thee; and Saul my father knoweth.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, together with the workmen, and stewards.
And Memucan came unto him, and he sat in the upper chamber of the wall, which he had for himself, and said, I have spoken unto thee a word of God. And he arose from off the throne.
And he answered and said, This is nothing more than the sword of the son of Joash, the son of Joash, who hath delivered Midian into his hand, with all the host.
And a man from thence answered and said, Who is their father? And it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before, and that went up with them into the camp round about, they also returned to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And again, I will put my trust in him; and again, behold, I and my children, whom God hath given me.
For our God is a consuming fire.
And when the men came in, there was the image in the bed, with the bands of the goats' hair at his head,
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; for we have taken an oath in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and my seed for ever: and David went away, and Jonathan went into the city.
And he turned round from him to another, and saith according to this word; and the people returned him as the first word.
And the priest said, Behold, here is the sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou didst thresh westward in the midst of the valley, bound up in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take this, take it, for there is no other besides this. And David said, There is none like that, give it me.
And this hope is like a strong girdle for our souls, fixed and certain, and going in unto that which is within the veil;
For where he taketh the angels, he taketh hold of the seed of Abraham.
And it came to pass, as he spake unto them, that the mighty man, whose name was Goliath the Gittite, came up out of the den of the Philistines, and spake as he had before, and David heard his words.
And Abimelech, one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, went and fled after David.
And the children of Israel put away the Baalim, and the rod, and served Jehovah only.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not upon his face, nor on the height of his stature, because I have cast him off; for I see not as man seeth: for man looketh at the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh at the heart.
and the wood of his spear like a weaver's beam, and the flame of his spear six hundred shekels of iron, and the armor of the bucklers goeth before him.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come, we will glorify thee?
And when she came to her husband, she said unto him, A man of God came to me, having the face of an angel very grievous: and when I asked him that he was, and where he came, he would not tell me.
As I sware in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest.
And when the men of Israel fled in the battle, Benjamin began to smite and kill the men of Israel about thirty souls: for they said, Surely they are smitten before us as in the first battle.
And his mother made him a garment, and brought it unto him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the sacrifice of the sacrifice.
And David and Jonathan made a covenant; for they loved him as his own soul.
Now the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
Now therefore arise, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do in thy sight.
And it is true that by the law, the Levites, who have the office of priesthood, shall take a tenth of the people's goods; and they shall say, They take it from their brethren, though these are the children of Abraham.
And she said, Let thy servant have grace in thine sight. So the woman went away, and took part in the feast, and her face was no more sad.
And the man went out of the city of Bethlehem, to sojourn in the land of Judah, where he found a place; and he came to the house of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to be his journey.
And when he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the prison our being shut, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.
And again, if the fathers of our flesh gave us punishment and reverence, how much more shall we be under the authority of the Father of spirits, and have life?
And his servants told David these words; and the thing was right in David's sight to be the son-in-law of the king; and the days were not fulfilled.
For my father hath fought for you, and hath cast away his life from thence, and deliver you from the hand of Midian;
And they circumcised the eighth day, of the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew Hebrew, according to the law, a Pharisee.
And the Philistines set up their forces against Israel; and the battle was hard; and Israel prevailed against the Philistines, and smote them four thousand in the field.
But this day thou hast rejected your God, who hast delivered you out of all your evil and your afflictions; and ye have said, Nay; but set a king over us. Now therefore stand before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your families.
And Jehovah said unto him, There are yet many people: bring them down to the waters, and I will prove them unto thee there: and they shall go with you, and they shall go with you; and whosoever I say unto you, Go not with you; the same shall not go.
Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the army of Jehovah? for they had bound themselves with a great oath, when they were in Mizpah, that every one should be slain.
that we may be as all the nations, and our king may reign over us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
Let us therefore go forth unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
And he returned from the pillar of stone at Gilgal, and said, I have something to say unto thee in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be silence; and let all those that stand before him go out.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; Among the congregation will I sing thy praise.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they looked, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
Now David the son of Bethlehem, the son of Bethlehem, beforetime, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons, and was old in the days of Saul, and of great age among men.
And every high priest that is taken from among men is given to him, that he may take care of the things that are in the service of God, that he may make a sin-offering.
of the doctrine of baptism, which is put on also of the dead, and of the resurrection, and of eternal judgment;
And when the children of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went every man unto his own house.
And the inhabitants of the villages ceased, and they ceased in Israel; and when Rebecca came, I rose up, that I arose a mother in Israel.
And they said unto him, Say now, Shipound. And he said, There is a man of Alexandria, for he could not judge it. So they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time forty thousand of Ephraim fell.
Neither have the children of Israel remembered Jehovah their God, who delivereth them out of the hand of all their enemies round about,
For there shall be no more in force of them that are dead; for it is not in force when he that made the will be alive.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and admonish those that walk this way, even as ye have us an example.
And there arose also one, and him as dead as dead, and many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea.
But we are not of them that are perishing, but of them that have faith even unto the salvation of the soul.
And it came to pass, that all that were slain of Benjamin were five thousand armed men of war, mighty men of valor.
And she ran and ran to her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, whom I have seen before.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath appointed him ruler over his people: for thou hast not kept what Jehovah commanded thee.
Now therefore go, and smite Amalek, and destroy utterly all that they have, and spare them not, but slay man and woman, the suckling and the suckling, the ox and the sheep, the camel and the ass.
and went round the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and passed over against the border of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon; and he did not enter into the border of Moab.
And the child Samuel grew, and grew on, and pleased the Lord and men.
When the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, his father's father, his father, his father, said unto him, Behold, the day draweth to evening, tarry thou all night: behold, the day is ended: tarry here, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow go on thy way early, that thou mayest go home.
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the battle, the Philistines of Gath, the Gittite of the Philistines, and spake according to the words of the Philistines; and David heard them.
I know how to be humbled, and I know how to abound: in all things, and in all things, I have learned the mystery both to be filled and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in need.
And he began to cry out after them: and they lifted up their eyes, and said to them, What aileth thee? why criest thou?
And when the men of that place saw him, they brought him thirty men with him.
And all Israel came up from Dan to Beersheba, that Samuel had been a prophet of Jehovah.
Return therefore, and go in peace; and do no evil in the sight of the princes of the Philistines.
So Abimelech arose, and all the people that were with him by night; and they set themselves in ambush against Shechem in four companies.
By faith, Joseph died, concerning the going forth of the children of Israel, and made mention of his bones.
And David rose up, and came to the place where Saul's tents were; and David saw the place where Saul slept with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul slept in the chariot, and the camp of the people were round about him.
And there was a son of ninety and eight years, and his eyes were standing, and he was not able to see.
And it came to pass, when they had eaten at Shiloh, and when they had drink, and when they had drink, the priest sat upon the throne by the side of the house of Jehovah.
And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the den of the lion, and out of the mouth of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon came, the king sat at the feast.
For wait from henceforth until his enemies are set under his feet.
And the princes of the Philistines gathered themselves together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy into our hands.
And the young man arose to set his wife and his servant; and his father spake unto him again, saying, Consider that the day is past, and the time is near, tarry with me, and spend the day in mirth; and to-morrow thou shalt go into thy house.
And she said unto him, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and hast told me a false thing; but now at least tell me, that thou mayest be bound.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the camp; for I have delivered it into thine hand.
And he called, and said, My son Samuel: and he saith, Here am I.
And when Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly feared.
And the ark of God was taken; and Chenaniah and Phinehas, the sons of Heli, were put to the sword.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man? who is like thee in Israel? why have thou not kept thine eyes to the king? for one of the people came to destroy the king thy lord.
And David rose early in the morning, and he gave the sheep into the care, and took the baggage, and went according to the word of Jesse; and he came to the place where the chariots were, when they went out to battle with their cry.
Whatsoever cometh out of the winepress she shall not eat, and wine and strong drink she shall not drink, and any unclean thing she shall not eat: all that I have commanded her she shall observe.
Now this is my purpose to make known unto you, brethren, that the cause of the gospel hath been wrought in my sufferings.
Even so the Christ glorified himself not to be chief priest; but he that spoke unto him, said unto him, My son art thou, I to-day have begotten thee.
And they rose up, and went to Ziph before Saul; and David and his men were in the wilderness of the wilderness, to the south of the wilderness.
Ye were not pleased with burnt-offerings, And concerning sin offerings;
And the children of Israel kept not in their heart Jehovah their God, who saved them from all their enemies on every side.
And it came to pass, as Samuel had spoken to all Israel, and Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped by flatteries; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And the small part of the house was according to their deeds; and the curse of Jotham the son of Jeroham came upon them.
And there came a man of God to Eli, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Did not I openly appear unto thy father's house, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharaoh?
But though I am poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and in your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with you all.
And Saul heard that David had been seen, and the men that were with him: Saul was in Gibeah, and sat under the oak in the high place, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were in their places before him.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives for themselves, according to their number, of the Sabeans, whom they carried off: and they went and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
And David rose up, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Elasah the king of Gath.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, when he died.
And Saul said unto his servant, Thy word is very good: come, let us go. And they went into the city, where the man of God was.
And the priest's custom was before the people, that when every one offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came, and the flesh was in his hand, with a hook of three teeth in his hand;
And Saul went on this side of the mount, and David and his men on that side of the mount; and David made haste to recover Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
though I myself might have confidence in the flesh, if any man think that he is confident in the flesh, I yet more:
Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David saw the place where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army. And Saul lay in the place of the chariots, and the people were encamped round about him.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, with which Abimelech hired for vain and for light, who followed him.
And when she saw that she had let her see, she sent word unto the elders of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he hath let out all his heart unto me. Then the princes of the Philistines came to her, with the money in their hands.
Finally, brethren, rejoice in the Lord, to write the same things unto you, not to me, but to keep you safe.
And he came to Ramah, and came unto the great pit which was in Sochoh, and said, In what place are Samuel and David? And it was told him, Behold, they are in Ramah in Ramah.
And the land rested forty years: and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until there was no strength in them to weep.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten before us as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and carry them away from the city to the highways.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
that thou hast put all things under his feet: for in that he hath subjected all things unto him, he left not nothing under him: but now we see not as yet all things obey him.
And they circumcised the eighth day, of the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew Hebrew; and the law was a Pharisee.
My son, hast thou forgotten him? My son, make not the chastening of the Lord, neither chasten the chastening of the Lord.
And he sent, and brought him in, and he was white, with beauty of eyes, and of good appearance; and Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him, for this he.
And Israel was in great need because of Midian; and the children of Israel went up to Jehovah.
And they answered him, saying, Nay, but we will surely bind thee, and deliver thee into their hand, and we will not kill thee: and they bind him with two thick bands, and bring him up out of the rock.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will find ourselves unto them.
And Shammah the son said, Let me die with the Philistines, and let him smite himself with great power; and the house shall fall upon the princes, and upon all the people that are in it; and the dead shall be more than they whom he slew.
So that there is no division in the house of God.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why is he put to death? what hath he done?
And he sent and fetched him, and he was tender and ruddy, and beside a fair countenance, and beautiful. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
And the children of Ammon cried together, and encamped in Gilead; and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
and it shall come to pass, that every man that is left in thy house shall come in to bow himself unto him, for a hire of silver, and a cake of bread, and he shall say, Let me, I pray thee, go unto one of the priests's office, to eat bread of bread.
But the latter end of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defence of the gospel.
and thou shalt see an enemy in my dwelling-place, in all the riches which God shall give Israel: and there shall not be an old man in thine house for ever.
And David went out whithersoever he sent him, and prospered: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was pleased in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
After all that generation were gathered unto their fathers, another generation rose after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor the work which he had done for Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now Jehovah hath established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And Abimelech and the divisions that were with him were beaten, and stood at the entrance of the gate; and the two companies were dashed out against all that were in the field, and slew them.
For he sought the strong city, Whose Maker and God.
And David said unto Abiathar, I was certain that day, when the Edomites were there, that he would bring tidings to Saul; for I am the burden of all thy father's house.
And they called the name of that place to Jehovah, and sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
and they sware unto Jehovah, saying, If thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hand,
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have done wickedly, because we have turned away from Jehovah, and have worshiped the Baalim and the Geshurites; and now, save us from our enemies, and we will be thy servants.
And they answered and said unto them, Behold, he is righteous before you: come quickly, for he is come into the city this day; for there is a sacrifice unto the people to-day at the high place.
but only a great fear, and of the fire of wrath, which shall be the destruction of the enemies of God.
And he said, I have sinned: yet I beseech thee before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may serve Jehovah thy God.
And the servants of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw that the multitude was turned back and forth.
And it came to pass, that, when he went away from Samuel, God gave him a repentance: and all these things were done that day.
And Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness: for Jehovah hath given thee this day, and I will not stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And Jehovah had uncovered the ear of Samuel one day before the coming of Saul, saying,
Wherefore, leaving behind the scriptures of Christ, let us move to maturity, not putting a foundation of repentance from the dead, and faith in God;
Let not my lord put his heart against this worthless man, the Carmelite; for as his name is, so is his name; and folly is with him: but I, thy handmaid, did not see the young men of my lord whom thou sentest.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her friends, and she mourned upon her virginity upon the mountains.
But the man would not tarry that night; but he rose up, and went, and came to Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine also with him.
and if they had been mindful of that which they came forth, they might have occasion to return.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, even to me indeed is not evil, but for you it is saved.
And it came to pass, when Israel waxed strong, that they put the Canaanites to forced labor; but they did not utterly drive them out.
By faith Abraham, when he was tempted, offered up Isaac; and he that received the promises offered his only begotten son,
Say unto him, Long life unto thee. Peace be unto thee, and peace to thy house, and peace to all that thou hast.
And the children of Ephraim came, and said unto him, Why didst thou not send for us, when thou wentest to war against Midian? And they said sharp words unto him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, O Jehovah God of Israel, give us a sign, by which we may know, that thou mayest not answer thy servant to day: if this iniquity be in me, or in my son Jonathan, give a sign; or if this iniquity be in thy people, give holiness. And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people fled.
As to the circumcised, I took it on the eighth day, of the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, the Hebrew of the Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee;
And Michal took the image, and put it in the bed, with a camel's hair upon his head, and she put raiment thereon.
Wherefore I was wroth with this generation, and said, They are always walking in heart, and they have not known my ways;
then Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath cast out the Amorite before his people Israel, and ye will possess it.
He shall keep the feet of his saints; But the wicked shall come to his end in the night; For by strength no man shall prevail.
And it shall come to pass in the morning, when the sun riseth up, and rise up early, and rush upon the city; and when he and his people come out against thee, do unto them whatsoever thou hast a chance to do.
And they called the name of that place to Jehovah, and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is: and when thou shalt come thither into the city, thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place, with a harp, and a tambourine, and a pipe, and a harp before them; and they shall prophesy.
And David girded his sword upon his garments, and he sought to go; for he had not tempted it. And David said unto Saul, I am not able to go with these; for I have not tried them. And David took them away.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be well.
And she said unto her young men, Pass over before me; behold, I am come, and her husband hath not spoken unto her.
So David smote the Philistines with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; and there was no sword in the hand of David.
Suffer my joy, that ye may be likeminded, having the same love, being of one mind.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, your fathers cried unto Jehovah; and he sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought thy fathers out of the land of Egypt, and dwelt in this place.
And they said, We will give willingly; and they spread a garment, and cast in it every man the rings of his prey.
And the inhabitants of the valley bare the wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and behold the ark, and rejoiced to see.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were on the roof about three thousand men and women, who saw while the son of Shimea did.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes: I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And he came in unto the sheepfolds, and there was a cave, and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men were abiding in the cave.
And the children of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well as the cattle, and all that was found; even all the cities that were found they set on fire.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me pass through thy land; but the king of Edom hearkened not: but he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel abode in Kadesh.
And they set up for themselves the graven image that Micah had made, even all the days that the house of God was in Shiloh.
that God might raise up from the dead, from whence also he received him.
And the priest accepted the offering, and took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, and went with the people.
and saith, This is the manner of the king that reigneth over you: he taketh thy sons, and set himself among his chariots, and among his horsemen, and they flee before his chariots.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath shut up thy enemy this day into thy hand: now will I run him through with my spear even to the earth at once, and there shall be no need of a second time.
who being in the likeness of God, thought it not stolen with God:
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to set him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And it came to pass, that the Philistines rose, and went, and drew near to meet David; and David hasted, and ran to meet the Philistines.
And they passed over thence the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And they told themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
and they shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves, and thou shalt take them at their hand.
And Saul gave Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of David's wife, to Phage the son of Mezahab.
and it shall come to pass, when these signs come unto thee, that thou shalt do for thyself as thy hand findeth, for God with thee.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they smote and slew the people, as at another time, in the way that goeth up to Bethel, and the other to Gibeah in the field, in the field of Israel.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let us pass through thy land; but the king of Edom hearkened not; and they sent messengers to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel abode in Kadesh.
Jehovah hath done unto you as he spake by my hand: Jehovah hath plucked up the kingdom out of thy hand, and hath given it to thy neighbor, to David.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Haste, haste, tarry not: and Jonathan's son gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, the son of Levi, the son of Levi; in one day they shall die.
And when Jacob and his sons came into Egypt, and were oppressed by the Egyptians, the prayer of your fathers came up unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt, and put them into this place.
And unto the messengers he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire!
And there remaineth a sabbath unto the children of God.
And the children of Israel saw that Abimelech died, and went every man to his place.
who should do unto an example and to the shadow of the heavenly things, as Moses commanded, to make the tabernacle, for saying, Behold, thou mayest make all things according to the pattern which was shewn thee in the mount.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together for war against Israel, and said unto David, Know thou now, that thou shalt go out with me to the war, thou and thy men.
And he said, Whither have ye beaten this day? And David said, Concerning the south of Judah, and against the south of the sons of Jerahmeel, and unto the south of the Kenites.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and stamped the grapes, and made merry; and went into the house of their god, and ate and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
These are the nations, whom Jehovah hath forsaken, to make Israel known by them, even as many of Israel had not known all the wars of Canaan;
And the hand of Jehovah was upon them whithersoever they went out, as Jehovah spake; and as Jehovah had sworn unto them, and they were very sorrowful.
For indeed we have received tidings of good tidings unto us, even as they also; but the word of the report is not profitable unto them, but not being mingled with faith in those that heard.
And being found in form as a man, he humbled himself, and was obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
And the children of Benjamin were eighteen thousand men: all these were valiant men.
And he smote them with a very great force, from Aroer, even unto the river of Minnith, and from thence, twenty cities; and the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And of the sons of David, Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were both of them.
For the carcase of these beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest, shall be burned without the camp.
And Saul, and the people that were with him, and the best of the sheep, and the cattle, and the cattle, and the beasts, and the lambs, and all that was good, and all that was good, and that they should not destroy them; but all that was mean and weak, that they destroyed utterly.
And having endured patience, he obtained the promise.
for for me to live Christ, and to die gain.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and have worshiped strange gods: therefore will I not deliver you any more.
Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, saying, Samuel, and Samuel; speak; for thy servant heareth.
For the land which hath drunk the rain that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth fruit for them; for whose sakes it is sown, receive blessing from God;
And when they had seen this, they cried out, and said, There was not any thing done in Israel since our fathers came up out of Egypt, till this day: give judgment, and make a decree what ought to be done.
And Saul said unto him, Why hast ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me to lie in wait, as at this day?
And the heart of the priest was glad, and took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went with the people.
And David said, What now have I done? is there not a cause?
And David said unto the king, Behold, thou shalt know what thy servant is to do. And he said unto David, I will keep thee for ever.
And David rose early in the morning, and left the flock unto a shepherd, and lifted up his hand, and went, as Jesse commanded him; and he came in to the highway, and the army that went out to the battle, and they cried for battle.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all your heart, and put away the foreign gods and the Ethiopians out of the midst of you, and lay your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own eyes, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
then let us all, who have come to perfection, be of this mind; and if in anything ye are of one mind, even this will God make manifest unto you.
And David rose early in the morning, and went out from the flock with a shepherd, and took and went, as Jesse had commanded him: and he came to the place of the chariots, as the people went out to battle for the battle.
For he is worthy of him for whom all things, and through whom are all things in bringing many sons to glory, to perfect the coming of their salvation through the sufferings.
And she gave birth to a son, and gave him the name of Shammah the son: and he became a man, and the blessing of Jehovah was upon him.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore get her for me as my wife.
And it came to pass, when David heard that Saul had conspired against him, that he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
For all that eat milk are ignorant of the word of righteousness, because he is a child.
And Abigail went quickly, and arose, and rode on the ass, and five of her maidens, who went at her feet; and she went after the messengers of David, and was to him for a wife.
And the children of Gilead took the plains of the Jordan against the children of Ephraim; and when any of the men of Ephraim that had gone in flight said, Let me go over; the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou the children of Ephraim? And if he said, No.
and in this again shall they enter into my rest.
And they came to their brethren at Zareah, and Eshtaol; and their brethren said unto them, What sayest ye?
For he is waiting for the city that hath foundations, and whose builders are God.
And the son of Obed was called, and said, Who is Abimelech, and what is Shechem, that we should serve him? is he not the son of Micah, and hath made him ruler over the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? why should we serve him?
and thou shalt roll them together with a garment, and they shall be changed; and thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
He went forth out of Egypt by faith, and did not fear the king's fury: for he endured, as seeing him that is not of God.
But if ye do wickedly, ye shall perish, both ye and thy king.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are lawful, whatsoever things are lawful, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are good, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any power, and if there be any praise, consider these things.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in the vineyards.
but Christ, having come as a high priest of the coming of things, by the greater and the perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that should say, not of this creature,
And David went on, and he and six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the brook of Amon, and the remnant stood still;
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; Let them deliver thee in the time of thy affliction.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring near the ark of God: for the ark of God was on that day with the children of Israel.
And Japhlet passed over to the children of Ammon, to fight against them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the multitude of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing over them, the Spirit of God came upon them, and they prophesied.
And Saul and his men went in search of him; and David spake of it, and came down to the rock in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard of this, and went after David into the wilderness of Maon.
And they were left for trial Israel, to know whether they would keep the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers through Moses.
And on that day he called Baal Perazim, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.
He raiseth up the poor from the dust, and lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, to cause them to sit with nobles, and to cause them to sit with the nobles; for Jehovah is the Maker of the earth, and setteth upon them the whole world.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of his mother's father, saying,
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
And Samuel was dead; and all Israel had mourned him, and they buried him in Ramah, even in his own city: and Saul had put away the mediums and the wizards out of the land.
And Jonathan the son of Saul said unto his armourbearer, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines that are over there. But he told his father not.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but, behold, thy glory is not on the way whither thou goest: for the Lord selleth them with the hand of a woman. And Deborah rose up, and went with an ensign to Kedesh.
Was it this day that I began to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king charge anything to his servant, even to all the house of my father; for thy servant knoweth not all this, less or more.
And the Spirit of God came upon him, when he heard these words, and his wrath burned hot.
that he should be made like his brethren in every way, that he might be a high priest full of mercy, and faith in all things that pertain to God, making offerings for the sins of the people.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: therefore they called that place Dan unto this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
Salute all your rulers, and all the saints; for the men of Italy salute you.
And he brought to Eglon the king of Moab; and he made it very fat.
And the Philistines came by morning and evening, and offered himself forty days.
And if he said unto him, First let the fat be burned, then take it as much as thou shalt. And he said, Nay, thou shalt give it to me now, lest I take it by force.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, and drove out thence three sons of Anak.
And he had a chain of brass upon his head; and he was girded with a coat of mail; and the weight of the robe was five thousand shekels of brass.
And the trees went out to make a king for themselves; and they said to the olive tree, Be thou king over us.
And he built it upon the ephod, and set it up in his city, in the city of Ophrah; and all Israel played the harlot after it, and it was to break it in, and to his house for a snare.
And God testified by signs, and wonders, and wonders, and wonders, and distributed of the Holy Spirit according to his will.
And it came to pass, when thou heardest the parable of the dream, and the interpretation of the dream, which they took it, and worshipped, he returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath given the army of Midian into your hands.
But if I live in the flesh, this shall bring forth fruit from my work; yet I know not what I shall choose.
For if the blood of bullocks, and the goats, and the ashes of a heifer, cleanse them that are defiled, shall hallow them unto the cleansing of the flesh;
And it came to pass, when the lad came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, and Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is not the arrow against thee?
making thee full of every good work, and ready to do all his lusts, working in us that which pleases Jesus Christ; and may the glory be given unto him for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel; and the battle was spread out, and Israel was smitten before the Philistines; and they smote them in the field about four thousand men.
And the children of Benjamin did as they had been commanded; and according to their number they carried off every man his wife of them that were merry; and they went into their possession, and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And he died, and was buried in Paran in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of Amalek.
And Saul said, There is no man put to death on this day: for to-day Jehovah wrought salvation in Israel.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, stood in the ephod: and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up to Samuel.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over against Beth-Aven.
And Shammah the son said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto thee: if thou canst tell it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give thee thirty curtains, and thirty changes of garments:
And he made a ephod out of it, and put it in the midst of the city of Ophrah; and all Israel played the harlot with it; and it became a snare to the king, and to his house.
And they said unto Samuel, Weep not to Jehovah our God for us, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Then said they unto him, Say now, and he said, Because he could not speak it right; for he could not speak it right. So they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell on that time forty and forty thousand.
Why do ye harden your heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? and when he had wrought great among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
and to them that were in Sepharad, and to them that were in the cities of Jerahmeel, and unto them that were in the cities of the Kenites,
and encamp against them, and destroy the increase of the land until thy entering in Gaza; and they leave no sustenance in Israel, either sheep, or ox, or ass.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the mixture. And he did so.
And David gave him his oath; and Saul returned to his house; but David and his men went up to their place.
Now after Abimelech there arose a ruler in Israel, and Tola the son of Shimea, the uncle of Judah, a man of Issachar, who dwelt in the hill country of Ephraim.
And Jehovah gave them judges, as well as their saviours from the hand of the oppressor.
and neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that went in unto the house of Dagon, upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou wouldest take a wife of the Philistines, who are uncircumcised? And Jonathan said unto his father, Take this woman for me, for she hath pleased my eyes.
And they were with the house of Micah; and they perceived the voice of the young man, the Levite, and turned aside there, and said unto him, Who hath brought thee hither? and what art thou doing in this place? and what is thy place here?
And ye shall cry in that day because of thy king, whom ye have chosen; and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
And Micah said, Know now, I pray thee, that Jehovah will do good unto me; for I have a Levite as my priest.
And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring them to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell us, saying, David hath done this, and this hath been his journey in the land of the Philistines.
But ye have not kept the word which saith unto you, My son, provoke not the Lord's punishment, neither shalt thou put your trust in the day of visitation.
And the children of Israel returned, and put all the remnant of the city to the sword, both men and beast; and all the cities, and the villages of Benjamin, were consumed with fire.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
having confidence in this very thing, that he that created you a good work shall abide until the day of Jesus Christ;
And the name of the women shall be blessed above women, and the Kenite's wife: Blessed be the daughters of women in the tent.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give me bread, I pray thee, to the people that follow me, for they are weary; and I pursue them as Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And they said, We will not kill thee, but we will deliver thee up bound: and they bound him with two chains, and brought him out of the rock of Etam.
that we may come near, that we may be free, to the seat of grace, that we may receive kindness, and find grace; for the salt is profitable.
And they came into the house of Micah, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What do ye?
But his wife said unto him, If the Lord were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt offering and a sacrifice at our hands, neither did he shew us all these things, nor did as at this time have told us this thing.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh: the two sons of Heli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, the priests, were there.
Jehovah will render unto every man his righteousness and his faithfulness: for Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand to day; but I will not stretch out mine hand upon the anointed of Jehovah.
always at all my supplication, making supplication for you all with joy.
And it came to pass, when Saul returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
Pardon, I pray thee, the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make a house for my lord for ever: for my lord is fighting the battles of Jehovah, and the evil shall not be found in thee as long as thou livest.
If then we have a kingdom which shall never be moved, let us have grace, that we may serve God with fear and reverence.
And Melchizedek the king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, who met Abraham, returned from smiting the kings, and blessed him.
And Adam rose up, and went after his wife; and he came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake to the woman? And he said, I am.
And it came to pass, when they had carried it, that the hand of Jehovah was upon the city with a very great destruction; and he smote the men of the city, small and great, and they went forth in their secret parts.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in thy strength, and redeem thee from Midian: have I not sent thee?
And after him was Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, who smote the Philistines with an ox, and he saved Israel.
And the spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, and he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was girded with his hand.
For it is more better than the angels, and the name which is his inheritance is greater than theirs.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his branch, and they followed Abimelech, and put to the hold, and burned the hold of them with fire: and all the men of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out to the field; and they told Abimelech,
And an angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal unto the place of weeping, and said, I have brought you forth out of Egypt, and have brought you into the land for which I sware unto your fathers; and I sware that I would not make my covenant with you for ever.
who by faith overcame kingdoms, who wrought righteousness, justified by the mouth of lions,
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them; but the lad did not cast his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a child.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, which shall come upon the Levites, the son of Levi, and the son of Phinehas; and they shall die in the same day.
by which shall we be sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
For unto you it is given in the Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;
how Jacob went into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And the sin of these young men was very great before Jehovah: for they gave no honor unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Spirit of God came upon Saul with great force, and he was like a prophet among the men of his house; and David made music for him, as he did day by day: and Saul held his spear in his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and when we saw that they were no whither, we came to Samuel.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give ye bread of bread unto the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I pursue after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made him king of Moab strong against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And Judah went with Simeon, his brother, and smote the Canaanites who dwelt in Zarephath, and put it under the curse; and he gave the city the name of Hormah.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them, and smote them in the nether parts of the valley.
And Saul heard the voice of Jonathan; and Saul sware, saying, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
He keepeth the feet of his saints; But the wicked are cut off in darkness; For by strength there shall no man prevail.
Take heed to the dogs, beware of evil men, beware of the meekness.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas died.
how shall we escape, if we have been negligent in the great salvation, which, having had the beginning in the mouth of the Lord, hath been confirmed unto us by those that have heard;
And Saul dwelt at the borders of Gibeah, under the thick part of the pomegranates; and the men that were with him were about six hundred men.
And Abimelech went after him, and fled before him; and a great number fell by the sword all the way toward the city.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: wherefore now send and bring him unto me, for he shall surely die.
He is able to have compassion for them that have no knowledge, and for them that wander from the truth, because he himself is weak.
They that are delivered from the noise of the archers in the valleys, there shall they hear the righteous acts of Jehovah, even the righteous deeds toward the inhabitants of Israel; then shall the people of Jehovah go down to the gates.
And he had forty sons, and the sons of thirty sons, that were born to him in asses, and he reigned eight years.
And he said unto them, The Ethiopian hath dealt with me, and he hath hired me to be his priest.
For he saith, Thou art a priest unto the age, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in me?
And Jehovah appeared unto Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And he brought him into his house, and gave provender to his asses; and after they had washed their feet, he gave them a feast.
And Samuel took the vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Hath not Jehovah anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
And the word was evil in the eyes of Samuel, that they should say, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
but Christ is the Son in his own house, which we are, if we hold fast the confidence and glory of hope unto the end.
For it is impossible to be renewed again to repentance; and who have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
And the brother of Saul said unto him and to his servant, Whence hast thou been? And he said, Search for the asses; and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And Heber the wife of Heber took a bow, and took the hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and smote the girdle into his temples, and it fell into the ground; for he had fallen into a deep sleep, and was faint; and he died.
Now as for Zebah and Zalmunna, were in Benaiah 'measure, and with their armies, and with them were twenty thousand men from all the host of the men of the east; and they that fell in battle were one hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
Neither shall they teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.
And the thorn-bush said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, come, put confidence in my shadow: but if not, fire shall come out of the midst of the thistle, and consume the cedars of Lebanon.
And they cried unto the children of Dan; and they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they smote the Canaanites who dwelt in the field; and they utterly destroyed it, and called the name of the city Hormah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and he delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Saul clothed David with his long robe, and put a chain of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a coat of mail.
And they laid his body in the earth in the land of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim unto the north of mount Gaash.
but he, because he abideth for ever, keepeth the priesthood for ever.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me; behold, I will follow after thee; but she told not her husband of Nabal.
For it is clear that our Lord came forth out of Judah; and Moses said nothing concerning the priests.
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants, as David, who is the son-in-law of the king, and hath come unto thy council, and is honorable in thy house?
And they took that which Micah had made, and the priest, whom he had, and came in against him, against a people quiet and confident, and smote them by the mouth of the sword, and the city burned with fire.
And he said unto them also, If I return a conqueror in peace, I will destroy this tower.
and call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me the one whom I name unto thee.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went to meet the Philistines; therefore they called that place the Rock of visions.
I will not cut off from my altar; but thou shalt cause thine eyes to fail and cause thy soul to mourn; all the members of thy house shall die as men.
And the king said, Thou shalt die, and thou shalt die, thou and all thy father's house.
And David enquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
And he went from year to year, and went round to Bethel, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel all these places.
And the Lord said unto him, With these three hundred men drink with their tongues, I will deliver thee, and smite the Midianites; and let the people go, every man to his place.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was very sorrowful.
But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his border; but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And the Philistines persecuted Saul and his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchijah, the sons of Saul.
For he that worketh in you, and worketh for his good pleasure, is God.
And when they saw him, they brought forth thirty men with him.
And the Lord discomfited them, and all his chariots, and all his host, before the edge of the sword; and Sisera went down from his chariot, and fled upon his feet.
And the children of Israel came together from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
Behold, thou wilt not despise him that speaketh: for if they were not able to escape, they would not depart from them that testified against the earth: how much more shall we escape who speak from heaven?
And it shall come to pass, when ye shall come to the mount of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is, and it shall come to pass, when ye shall come thither unto the city, that ye shall meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp, and a flute, and a flute, and a harp before them; and they shall prophesy.
And Saul returned from following the Philistines, and they told him, saying, Behold, David in the wilderness of En-gedi.
For finding fault, he saith unto them, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah; and I will finish with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah a new covenant,
and now he hath obtained a more excellent service, how much more more of a good covenant is he, which is given to the price of his mouth.
And Saul hasted, and fell, the fulness of his stature upon the earth, and fear greatly for the words of Samuel; neither was it in him, because he had not eaten bread all the day, and all the night.
And David rose up, and went forth out of the cave, and called after Saul, saying, My lord, O king. And Saul looked behind him; and David bowed himself to the ground, and did obeisance.
And David perceived that Saul had conspired against him; and David said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
and Judah with its coast, and Ashkelon with its coast, and Ekron with its coast.
And it came to pass on the day that Elkanah sacrificed, that he gave up Penuel his wife, and all her sons and her daughters.
And they cast it, and thought to put David to the wall. And David departed from his presence twice.
And the Lord called again, and said, The name of Samuel. And the name of Samuel came to him, and said, Behold, I am; for thou hast called me. And he answered, I called not, my son, to lie down again.
For the things which are in the heavens ought to be purified with these; but the things which are in the heavenly things are more than these.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and Mizpah, and called it, saying, Arise, Jehovah is our help.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou brought me up, and trouble my rest? and Saul answered, I am in great distress; for the Philistines have fought against me, and God hath gone away from me, and will not answer me any more, by the prophets or by dreams. Therefore I have sent for thee, that I may shew me what I must do.
And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as Aaron.
For the law made nothing perfect; but on the other hand there is a hope of hope whereby we draw nigh unto God.
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel; but they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
for we have become partakers of Christ, if the beginning of the hope unto the end we may hold fast;
Behold, thy servant hath overcome the lion and borne; and the number of the Philistines, who are uncircumcised, shall be as theirs, seeing that he hath put shame upon the hosts of the living God.
which is a sign for the present world, where gifts and sacrifices are offered to them, concerning the conscience, to make them perfect;
And the vine said unto them, Shall I not take away my wine that maketh the gods and the men glad, to walk upon the trees?
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is no one to tell me, even when my son hath entered into a covenant with the earth of Jesse: there is none of thee that hath mercy on my cause, nor hath given me any knowledge: for my son hath raised up my servant against me, and they have conspired against me unto this day.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan, and destroyed Judah, and Benjamin, and Ephraim; and Israel was very sorrowful.
He shall judge the virgin in all, and the bed that is perfect, and the whoremongers and the adulterers.
And Saul called the whole multitude of the people to battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay siege to David and to his men.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Midianites seven years.
Yea, I beseech you, brethren, help these women, for they have laboured with me in the gospel, and also the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
and a woman cast the upper stone of the mill upon the head of Abimelech, and crushed his head.
And it came to pass one day, that, as it was, that he lay in his place, and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
And he said unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do that which is good in thy sight.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
And they put their army in array against Israel; and they gathered themselves together; and Israel turned their backs to the Philistines; and there was slain in that war, and there were four thousand men in the field.
Neither shall they teach every man his fellow, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me in themselves, from least unto great among them.
Wherefore God magnified him, and gave him a name above every name.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And Jehovah called again the third time, and rose up, and came to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And she knew that Jehovah called the child.
and the high priest spake unto him, saying,
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall faint from me, to seek me again in all the borders of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
And the son of Ebedmelech said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; for why should we serve him?
And David sware unto Saul; and he went to his house, and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and exalteth.
for of them, whose blood is brought into the holy place, even the blood of the high priest, shall be burned without the camp.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
and ye have gone against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, even seventy men in one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his concubine, king over the city of Shechem, because he is thy brother;
And one of the people answered one of the people, saying, Thy father commanded the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread this day, and the people faint.
And Japhlet ran away from the face of his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Ishtob; and vain men gathered themselves together unto Japhlet, and they went out with him.
And Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
for by it was our fathers justified.
And Jehovah said unto him, Because I am with thee, thou hast smitten the Midianites as one man.
And David sent messengers, and he knew that Saul had come for certain.
And Samuel said, Hath the Lord delight in sacrifice and burnt offerings, as in his commandments? yea, to do his pleasure is better than to offer gifts, and to give ear to him than the fat of sheep.
But his wife took one of his friends, and gave her to her husband.
And Samuel slept until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel was afraid to tell the vision,
Ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall cast down their altars: but ye have not hearkened unto my voice: why hast ye done this?
Then said the trees to the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And he said unto him, Where now is thy mouth, that thou saidst, Who hath called Abimelech, that we serve him? is not this the people against whom thou hast despised? go out, I pray thee, and fight against it.
And the first slaughter, which was Jonathan and his armor, was of twenty men, in the midst of the half part of the land, which a yoke of oxen is wont to plow in a day.
and the priests of Dagon, and all that came to the house of Dagon, did not tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, That offering themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
For the work of Christ he came to the point of death, but delivered his life, that he might fulfill that which is in your part for my service.
And David was greatly troubled; for the people spake to stone him, because their heart was bitter, every man mourning for his sons and for his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And Shechaniah, and Barzillai said, Do thou arise, and run upon us; for the strength of a man is according to his age: he hath gone up, and slew him; and he took the ornaments and the Libyans, with which the camels of kings were adorned.
And the weight of the gold rings which he asked is a thousand and seven hundred of gold, and of the precious jewels, and of the purple, and of the purple garments, which were upon the kings of Midian, and in the bands of their camels.
And the king said unto the priests, Thou turnest, and smite the priests. And the Edomites turned against him, and slew the priests in that day, and slew the ephod in that day.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But if it bring forth thorns and thistles, it is unprofitable and near to a curse, whose end is to burn.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from off Saul, and the spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
And David made an oath again, and said, Thy father knoweth that I have found grace in thine eyes, and he said, Let Jonathan not know this, lest he be afraid. But as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, surely there is only a way betwixt me and death.
And they rose up, and went to Ziph before Saul; and David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, at the right hand of Tarshish.
And the son of Amasa came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
Now the child of Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before: in those days the Lord hid his word from men, and there was no open vision.
For every house is built by another, but he that hath built all things God.
And when the bearer of his weapons saw that Saul was dead, he fell; and he fell also upon his sword, and died with him.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he rose up against me, I took him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And the son of Shelemiah went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate; and Abimelech and the people that were with him arose from the ambush.
So came to the end of the thousand five thousand of the men of Benjamin, that were slain in the day of Benjamin.
And the remnant of Israel ceased, and the children of Rebekah ceased, that I rose up, a mother in Israel.
And when he saw the traveller in the street of the city, the old man said, Where goest thou? and where comest thou?
He hath sharpened the field with the shovel, and with the fan, and with axes, and with axes, and with hammers.
For as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath withheld me from doing evil, if thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there should not be left unto the man of Nabal of the morning the light of the dead, as much as he that lieth upon a wall.
And Saul removed him from his presence, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came before the people.
And Jonathan went up with his hands and with his feet, and his servant went up after him; and the Philistines gave way before Jonathan, when he had smitten them, and his servant slew them.
and set it before Saul, and before his servants; and when they had eaten, they rose up, and went all that night.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and made it by Dagon.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until the evening, and enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I now draw near to battle with the sons of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
The nobles of Gibeah rose up against me, and surrounded the house at night: they thought to kill me, and lay my concubine, and she died.
And Jesse took his seven sons before Samuel; and Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen any one of these.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host fled, and cried, and fled.
Saul was a son of one year when he began to reign, and he reigned two years over Israel.
And it shall come to pass, that every man that is left in thy house shall come and bow unto him for a piece of silver, and a piece of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests' posts, that I may eat a piece of bread.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array against Baal Tamar; and the ambush brake out of their place, even out of the border of Geba.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Offer and offering thee not, but a body hast thou prepared me.
Rejoice ye in Jehovah always; And again I say, Rejoice.
Now therefore give me thy oath by Jehovah, that thou shalt not destroy my seed after me, nor let my name be cut off from my father's house.
And it came to pass, when he was come home, that he took a sword, and divided the dead body of his wife with her bones, and sent the pieces into all the coasts of Israel.
And said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
and they shall ask after thy welfare, and give thee two loaves, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And Elijah said unto the angel of Jehovah, Let us delay thee, we pray thee, and make ready before thee a young goat.
and all Israel knew, from Dan even unto Beersheba, that Samuel was made a prophet unto Jehovah.
Behold, here is my virgin daughter, and his concubine: I will bring them out now, and take them away, and do with them what seemeth good unto thee: but to this man do not do any folly.
And it came to pass, when the young men of David came, they spake unto the wife of Nabal the Carmelite, and they waited.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it out of the plain to Ashdod.
and vowed a vow, and saith, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt see the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and forget not thy handmaid, and hast given to thy handmaid children of men, then will I give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and a razor shall not go up upon his head.
And he said unto her, Arise, and we go. And there was no answer, and he took her upon the ass, and the man arose, and went to his place.
Why do thou make thy heart hard, as the heart of Pharaoh and the Egyptians? When he had mocked them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
and in no fear of your adversaries, which is unto them a sign of destruction, but unto you of salvation and of God.
And the Philistines said, I have defied the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
and Saul and his son Jonathan, and the people that were present with them, were in Gibeah of Benjamin; but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
If therefore the Levites were in charge of the priesthood, ( for the people have received the law), what need shall there be that there should be a priest to the commandment of Malchijah, and not be called after Aaron?
not as the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by my hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: because they kept not my covenant, and I hid them, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass afterwards, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the hem of Saul.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart; and Jehovah hath commanded him to be captain over his people; for thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
And David said unto the men that stood by him, What shall be given to the man that shall kill this Philistine, and will take away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together from the cities of Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and took their spoil out of the camp.
that ye may approve the good things, that ye may be pure and without fault until the day of Christ.
and over it the glory of the glory of the glory, whereof we can not now speak.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, and were joined together as one man.
And Saul said, They have brought them out of the Amalekites; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And they said, Nay, but we will take thee up, and deliver thee into their hands, but we will not put thee to death: and thou shalt take hold of two cords round about him, and they shall take him up out of the rock.
for we are not of them that are perishing, but of them that believe in the inward part.
and none to himself receiveth the glory, but he that is called by God, as also Aaron.
According to all the works that they have done from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they also do unto you.
And he had forty sons and nephews, that rode upon threescore and ten asses; and he judged Israel eight years.
Therefore, brethren, have a confidence in the time into the most holy place by the blood of Christ:
And the Philistines said, I have put to shame the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
By faith Abraham, when he was tempted, offered Isaac; and he that received the promises offered up his only begotten son.
And ye shall make the images of your cattle, and the images of your abominations, which destroy the land, and give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will make his hand clear to you, and from your gods, and from your land.
And Saul said, Because of Amalek they have brought them: for the people had compassion on the best of the flock and of the herd, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God, and to the remnant that we have dedicated.
Thou hast declared this day how thou hast dealt well with me: for when Jehovah hath delivered me into thy hand, thou hast not killed me.
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who set Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a wife among the daughters of thy kindred, or among all our people, that thou shalt take a wife of the Philistines? But he said unto his father, Take her for me, for she pleaseth me.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and drove out the inhabitants of the hill country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, and fought with the Philistines.
And Achbor the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers came up with him; and he was much afraid by the archers.
And let them that are all their souls be bound in chains, because of the fear of death.
by faith, Noah, being warned of God of things that are not seen, being afraid, made a ship to the redemption of his house, by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
They ride upon the white asses, They sit on a long robe; They walk in wait on the way.
And they went aside the way of the night at Gibeah; and he went in, and sat in the street of the city; for no man brought them into his house for the night.
And Abimelech was told, that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
And I said, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish that which followeth.
And he said unto them, What have I done now with you? are not the grapes of Ephraim better than the grapes of Abiezer?
And when Jehovah raised up princes for them, Jehovah was with the prince, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the prince; for Jehovah was moved by their groaning, because of their persecutors and oppressors.
And when they went out, the hand of Jehovah was upon them to hurt them, as Jehovah had said unto them, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them; and they were very sorrowful.
And Saul and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and they came to the valley of Zephathah, and set them in array against the Philistines.
So David took the spear, and the pitcher of water from off over Saul's head, and they went away: and no man saw, and no man arose; for they were all asleep, because the deep sleep of Jehovah fell upon them.
But to abide still in the flesh is needful for you.
And after Israel was strong, he made them tributaries, and destroyed them not.
And the man departed from the city of Judah, to sojourn in Judah, to sojourn there; and he came to the house of Micah to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And Abigail went to the pit of Nabal; and he mourned in his house like a king; and the heart of Nabal was glad, for he had taken much wine; and she said nothing unto him till the day of the dawn.
Brethren, take me as an example, and take note of them that walk after the pattern which we have given.
And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before him; and there fell many wounded, even unto the entrance of the gate.
And he took his staff in his hand, and took him five of the smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the bag of the shepherd, which he had, and he cast them in his hand; and he drew near to the Philistines.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou slain in the valley of God, is bound in a cloth behind the ephod; and if thou wilt take it for thyself, take it, for there is none besides it. And David said, There is none like it; give it to me.
Wherefore three thousand men of Judah went down to the cave of the rock, and said to Shammah son, Knowest thou not that the Philistines reign over us? and he said unto them, Why do thou thus? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And it came to pass, when they that dwelt in the tower of Shechem, that they had heard, they went into the temple of their god, where they made a covenant with him; and the place was great, and it was very strong.
I know also how to be abased, and I know how to abound: every place where I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer.
And Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning the things that were going to pass.
who, being in the likeness of God, considered not equal to God,
and hast forgotten the exhortation of you, my son, saying, My son, take not the chastening of Jehovah, neither be weary when thou art reproved by him;
And when he turned his back to depart from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all these signs came to pass that day.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render their heads; and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
And they which were at one time saw the light, eating the good things from heaven, and having their part in the Holy Spirit,
For they and all their flocks came with their tents; and as the locust was full of locusts, there was a great multitude of men, and of camels, as many as they had touched.
And they asked the Lord further, Will the man yet come hither? And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And Abimelech was told that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
So that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth Christ is preached, and in this I rejoice, I will rejoice.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, Have ye not hated me? and ye cast me out from the house of my father, and why have ye come unto me now when ye are in trouble?
And he built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it the Lord's peace unto this day. And when he was yet in Salem, the house of Ezri,
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and the day of the battle smote twenty-two thousand men of the children of Israel.
And Shammah the son went to Gaza, and saw a harlot, and went in unto her.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was greatly troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hearkened to thy voice, and I put my soul in my hand, and I obey thy words that thou hast spoken unto me.
And after the death of the children of Israel, the children of Israel went again after the gods of Canaan, and trespassed against Jehovah, and made Baal their god.
Now when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
And he said, They were my brethren, the children of my mother: As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst kept them alive, I would not kill thee.
And more also do God also unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all things pertaining to him by the morning light, every one that hath any pleasure in the wall.
And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the wool, and there was dew upon all the earth.
God that bringeth forth, besides him witness with signs and wonders, and manifold things of power, and the gift of the Holy Spirit, according to his will?
And when he had long patience, he took the promise.
Bear thou, I pray thee, with the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make to my lord a faithful house: for the war of Jehovah hath my lord fought, and evil is not found in thee thy days.
And Shammah the son took the two pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
But he that kept not his seed from them gathered the tithe of Abraham, and blessed him that had the word.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Bethlehem, and was there four months.
And he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service in the same way with the blood.
The stars of heaven fight themselves; They fight against Sisera.
And her adversaries provoked her to make her rage, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And David heard that the Carmelite was dead, and said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath taken up my cause against the sinner for the shame that he put upon me, and hath kept back his servant from evil, and hath sent to the crown of Nabal the wife of Nabal. And David sent word to Abigail, to take her as his wife.
For unto us it is declared also, as unto them. But the word of hearing did not profit them, neither was they mingled with faith of those things which they heard.
For then he would have suffered death since the time of the creation; but now he came unto us at the end of the old order, to put away sin by the offering of himself.
But when the judge was dead, they turned back, and were more corrupt than their fathers, that followed other gods, to serve them, and to bow down unto them: and they did not cease their ways, neither did they give up their neck.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel; and he fought against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he smote all that had transgressed.
And Jacob smote every one of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped him on the top of his staff.
And Shaharaim the son of Jephunneh went after him; and he slew six hundred Philistines with the hire of an ox, and he delivered Israel.
that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus for me, by my coming unto you.
And he had the tower of Phanuel broken down, and the men of the city slew.
Ye have not yet resisted the blood of blood.
Jehovah forbid that I should stretch out mine hand against Jehovah's anointed; but I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his hand, and the staff, and let us go.
Know ye that Timotheus our brother is loosed, with whom he cometh shortly, I will see thee.
Say now in the ears of all the cities of Shechem, Is it better for you to be king over all the children of war, or by one man only? and, behold, I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the priest answered David, and said, I have no bread here, but there is holy bread; but if the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Saul said, They have brought them out of the Amalekites; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And God hearkened unto the voice of man; and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field; but the name of her husband was not with her.
And the children of Judah came up against Jerusalem, and took it, and burned the city with fire, and destroyed the city without mercy.
But a certain woman cast a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and rent his head.
Wherefore consider, and think what thou hast to do; for evil is determined against thy husband, and against thy house, and he is a son of Belial, that no man can speak unto him.
At that time they put about ten thousand men of Moab to the sword, every strong man, and every man of war: not a man went away.
And David said to Abimelech, Hast thou not smitten thee with the sword, or with the sword? for I am come out of my sword, and from the sword, because the king's business was ready quickly.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent; and if any one cometh and asketh thee, and saith, Is there any one here? thou shalt answer, No.
And Jehovah came and stood, and called, as he had called the second time, and Samuel, and Samuel, and said, Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth.
And of the sons of David, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; and they both were his wives.
And David's servants said unto him, Now is the time when Jehovah saith unto thee, I will give thine enemy into thine hands to do with him what seemeth good to thee. And David arose, and took the hem of Saul's garment in his hand, and cut off the edge of it without knowledge.
And the children of Dan went out from Seraiah, and Beeroth, six hundred men, ready for war;
And the children of Gilead took the Jordan before the children of Ephraim; and it was so, that when the children of Ephraim that were escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou one of the children of Ephraim? If he said, No.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day, What is better than honey more than honey? what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If thou hadst not plowed with my heifer, thou wouldest not find out my riddle.
by which shall we be sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
When Israel dwelt in Heshbon and the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and the villages thereof, and all the cities that are by the Arnon, for three hundred years, why did ye not recover them at that time?
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; before Jehovah is your way whither ye go.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for his inheritance; but he could not make the valley go out, for they had chariots of iron.
And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer with them.
And there were among the children of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins, who had never known a man; and they dwelt in Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And I have not sinned against thee, and thou hast done with me evil, to fight against me: Jehovah, the judge, judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when the lad came to the place where the arrow was, that Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is it not past thee?
And Jehovah himself hath done that which I said: Jehovah hath taken the kingdom out of thy hand, and hath given it to thy neighbor David;
And when they came to Gibeah, a band of prophets came face to face with him; and the Spirit of God came upon him with power, and took his place among them as a prophet.
And why hast thou not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and go to the spoil, and do the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah?
and ye have rejected your God, which he himself hath redeemed out of all your evil and all your troubles, and ye say, No, but a king thou hast set over us; and now, stand yourselves before Jehovah, by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Suffer us seven days, and we will send messengers into all the borders of Israel; and if there be no man to deliver us, we will come out unto thee.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Elkanah, and Malchijah, and the names of his two daughters: the name of the firstborn was Rebekah, and the name of the younger Michal.
And it came to pass, as he had spoken by the ark of God, that he fell from his throne to the gate, and brake his neck, and died; for the man was old and heavy, and he judged Israel forty years.
And when he had taken him down, they saw them all, sitting round about on all sides, eating and drinking among all the spoil of the Philistines, and of the land of Judah.
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast was prolonged; and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he spake unto her, because she lay sore upon him; and she told the words to the children of her people.
For by one offering he hath made perfect in perpetuity the sanctified.
And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath cast him into my hand: for he is shut in, entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
The punishment of Jehovah is upon Jonathan, if it please my father to do you evil, and I do not give thee word, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and the Lord be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But I reckon all things to be done in account of the glory of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all, and counted them to be filth, that I might gain Christ.
And the kine went straight by the way to Bethshemesh; and they went along the way, as they went, and did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them to the border of Bethshemesh.
Grace to you, and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And his father and his mother knew not that it was the Lord's, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines. And the Philistines reigned over Israel.
And he changed his way before them, and disguised himself in their sight; and he made haste at the doors of the gate, and let his spittle run down into his beard.
and that were in Rephidim, and that were in the cities of Jerahmeel, and that were in the cities of Chinnereth.
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
For our God is a consuming fire.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will go over unto these men, and let them see us.
When kings came, they fought; and they fought against the kings of Canaan, and the kings of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo; and they did not take them.
Why sittest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the voice of the cattle? For the families of Reuben are very great.
Neither shall he offer himself often, as the high priest shall enter into the holy place every year with blood;
And Saul said, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will no more do thee hurt, because my life is precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done foolishly, and have gone astray.
And when the men of Israel that were on this side of the valley, and that were on this side of the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And it came to pass at that time, that, when he was laid in his place, his eyes became dim, and he could not see.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Great is my sin: for I have walked contrary to the commandment of Jehovah, and against thy words; for fear the people, I have done what they said.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou my name? it is too wonderful.
For he that sanctify and the saints, are all from one; for so he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah; and he began to build an altar unto Jehovah.
And Hananiah went not up, for she said to her husband, Until the youth is weaned, I will bring him in, and he shall appear before Jehovah, and dwell there for ever.
We have had fathers of our flesh which chastened us, and we have made them afraid: shall we not much more be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
And the bearer of his weapons said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart: turn unto thee; behold, I am with thee as thine own heart.
And David was loved by all Israel and Judah; for he went out, and came in before them.
Take heed for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication, let your supplication be made known unto God.
And I will make a holy priest for myself, that shall do that which is in my heart and in my heart; and I will make for him a house which shall not come to an end, and his place shall be before my holy one for ever.
And I beseech you, brethren, that ye suffer this word of consolation: for I write unto you in a few words.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his face was like the face of the angel of God, very terrible; and I asked him not where he was from, neither did he shew me his name.
Deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: but if there be in me iniquity, slay me; for why should thou bring me unto thy father?
All the saints salute you, and especially them that are of Caesar's household.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea, as by the dry land, which the Egyptians forbade.
Go after peace with all men, and sanctification without, that no man may see the Lord;
And Jair died, and was buried in Ibleam.
And when the Philistines saw it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
So God smote on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner begat Abner,
and he shall cast it into the pan, or into the pot, or into the pot, or into the pot, and into the pot: and all that the meal-offering of the priest brought up the priest, that they should do unto all the children of Israel that came there at Shiloh.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth, and hanged himself upon the wall of Dor.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, and we die not: for we have added unto all our sins evil to ask for us a king.
And David went up from thence to Mizpah in the land of Moab; and he said to the king of Moab, Let my father and thy mother come and sojourn with thee, till it be clear unto me what God will do for me.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Thou shalt not dwell in a fortress, go, and go into the land of Judah. And David went, and went into the forest of Haran.
in every good work, to do his will, working in you that which is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the workers, beware of the stripes.
And David recovered all that Amalek had taken; and David took his two wives.
And it came to pass at that time, that there was a prophet of the wife of the dead, who judged the people.
And of the cities of the children of Benjamin were six thousand and twenty thousand in the war, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred men.
and said, At the beginning, Lord, the earth hath found; and the heavens are the work of thy hands.
And Samuel died; and all Israel were gathered together, and lamented him; and they buried him in Ramah, and David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
But remember the former days, in which ye were enlightened, in which ye suffered a great deal with sorrows;
And they went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them; and they spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
Neither is any thing that is not seen in his sight: but all things are naked, and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
Now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers: thy shepherds have been with us, and we have not hurt them; neither was there any missing from them, all the days that they were in Carmel.
And it came to pass, when he had ended to bring near the present, that he sent away the people bearing the present.
And the hand of Midian was strong against Israel, from the presence of Midian, and the children of Israel made for themselves the rivers which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And thou shalt say unto God, Let not thine anger wax hot against me; let me speak once more: let me test thee again with the fleece of the fleece of the fleece, and let the dew be upon the ground.
So they set up for themselves the graven image of Micah, which he made; and it remained all the time that God's house was in Shiloh.
In many parts and many ways, God of old spake unto the fathers in the prophets,
And the people were numbered, and there was none among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, We have turned again unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight with the children of Ammon: and thou shalt be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
If there be any consolation in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any part of the spirit be of the spirit, if any of his bowels be moved,
And he said, Go now. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her friends to the mountains, weeping for her.
Let us therefore draw nigh with confidence unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace in time of need.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, to whet every man his field, and his bed, and his axe, and his mack.
Some were tried to mock, and beat, and also with chains and chains.
And the children of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued Midian.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan said unto him, I have eaten a little honey with the edge of the staff that was in my hand; and, behold, I die.
But strong flesh is for them that are of full age; and they that are in part have their senses minded to discern both good and evil.
And it came to pass, when the people came to their tents, that the elders of Israel said, Why hath Jehovah let the Philistines smite us to-day? let us therefore get the ark of Jehovah's covenant from Shiloh, that it may be with us, and deliver us from the hand of our enemies.
And it came to pass, when he was dead, that the children of Israel turned back, and played the harlot after Baalim, and set over them the temple of Baal.
And the name of Jehovah was a high priest after the order of Malchijah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon, the king of Moab against Israel, because they did evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And he arose, and took away his garments, and his garments, and prophesied, even before Samuel, and fell naked all that day and all the night; therefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you.
And the boil took up the shoulder, and the thing that was on it, and set before Saul. And he said, Behold that which is reserved, set it before thee, eat; for it is preserved for thee; for I said, I will call the people. So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And now, O king, by all the desire of thy soul, to come down, come down, and we will shut him up into the hand of the king.
And he said unto them, What have I done now with you? are not the grapes of Ephraim better than the cluster of Abiezer?
Saul reigned one year, and reigned two years over Israel.
And it came to pass before they burnt the fat, that the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that was sacrificed, Give flesh to the priest; for he shall not eat flesh from thee, but raw.
And the servants of old said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing to one another, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And his fellow answered, and said, This is nothing except the sword of the son of Joash, the man of Israel: God hath delivered into his hand Midian and all the host.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, Until the sun be hot, ye shall help. And the messengers came and showed it to the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
And the children of Asher dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; for they possessed not them.
Now consider how great this was, to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth of the spoil.
And for the third time the name of Jehovah spake unto the name of Samuel. And he arose, and came to him, and said, Here am I, for thou hast spoken my name; and it was clear that the voice which was called the child's name was Jehovah's.
by faith Abraham, being called by faith, to go forth to the place that he was about to receive for an inheritance; and he went forth, and did not know where he went.
And the men of the guard answered Jonathan and his armourbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show thee. And Jonathan said to his armourbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And the children of Israel turned aside the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and serve Jehovah alone.
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of the land of Israel: for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And a man arose, and went after his wife, and came unto the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake unto the woman? And he said, I am.
And the king sat upon his throne, as at other times, on the seat by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
And they took hold of them, and bound them round about, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines are upon thee; and they stood in the inner chamber, and the cords were broken off.
Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; And after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; Out of Machir came down princes, and out of Zebulun that handle the pen of the scribe.
and carry these ten sticks unto the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren go, and take their pledge.
And Achbor the son of Joash went to his house, and dwelt there.
And when they came up out of Egypt, Israel journeyed through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And no creature is hid in the sight of him, but all things are naked, and hid unto the eyes of him to whom we must give our account.
for forty years I was wroth with this generation, and said, They go always in their heart, and they know not my ways.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will save thee by the three hundred men, and I will deliver thee into thy hand; and all the people shall go unto his place.
And he said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up, and covereth himself with a garment. And Saul knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed himself with his face to the ground, and worshipped.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And he said unto all the people, Hast thou seen him whom Jehovah hath chosen? for there is none like him among all the people. And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king!
And the five lords of the Philistines, having seen it, returned to Ekron the same day.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Jonathan. And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go forth as at other times, and I will shake myself. But he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
and thou shalt go down before me unto Gilgal: behold, I come down unto thee to offer burnt offerings, and to offer peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry until I come unto thee, and I will let thee know what thou must do.
And he turned from him to another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.
For we are the circumcision, those that worship by the Spirit of God, and boast in Christ Jesus, and put not confidence in the flesh;
Jehovah will do to Jonathan, and thus shall he add; when the evil of thee is good to my father, then I have uncovered thine ear, and sent thee away; and thou shalt go in peace, and Jehovah with thee, as he was with my father.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded you.
And the Levite said that he would dwell with the man, and he became unto him as one of his sons.
And David smote them from the evening even unto the evening of the morrow; and he fled not of them a man, except four hundred young men that rode upon the camels, and were fled.
But they would not hearken unto him; and the man took his wife, and brought her out to them; and they slept with her, and they treated her all night till the morning; and they let her go near the morning.
And it came to pass, as he talked with them, that the man whose name was Goliath, the Philistines, the Philistines, came up out of the camp of the Philistines; and he spake according to the words, and David heard them.
and another company went toward Beth-horon; and another company turned the way of the border that looketh down toward the valley of Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
And it shall come to pass, when their fathers and their brethren come, and murmur against you, and strive against you, and say unto them, Have pity on them, and have not taken them away as by the sword, or as they have done; and when they desired to have them, thou gavest them not, and the fault was committed upon your part.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be refreshed, knowing how ye are.
And the men of Shechem set a ambush for him upon the top of the mountains; and they robbed all that came by them, and Abimelech was told of it.
And the sister of Nabal spake unto David's servants, saying, Who is David? and what is the son of Jesse? and the servants are many in the days that flee from their masters.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she urged him to ask her father a field: and she lighted off her ass, and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And he taketh not himself the honor, but is called by God, even as Aaron also.
For God made a covenant with Abraham, because he had no more a greater by whom he sware by himself:
And Hananiah spake in her heart, and her lips fell, but her voice was not heard: wherefore, said she, she was drunken.
And the strength of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And they rose early the next day, and, behold, Dagon fell upon his face upon the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and they took their place of Dagon, and set him in his stead.
And they went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and through the land of Baca; but they saw no sign of them: and they went through the land of the Ethiopians, but they were not there: and they went through the land of Benjamin, but they did not come over them.
having tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And the children of Israel served Eglon, the king of Moab, eighteen years.
And the king said to the messengers that stood about him, Turn, and put the priests of the Lord to death: for their hand is with David; and they knew that he fled, and told me not: but the servants of the king were not willing to put forth their hand upon the priests of Jehovah.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray thee, how my eyes are light, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto her, and said, Thou art barren and barren; but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah your God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
having confidence in this very thing, that he that hath begun a good work in you shall perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ:
And Jehovah visited Hananiah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel grew before Jehovah.
And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she pleased the well.
And Jesus came into the hands of the high priest for ever, because he was a high priest for ever.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I feared the people, and hearkened unto their voice.
But what things have I profited, these I have counted, because of the Christ.
And Michal took an image, and laid it upon the bed, and put a man's skin with the hair at the head thereof, and covered it with garments.
Tomorrow I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin; and thou shalt anoint him prince over my people Israel; and he will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And Jehovah lifted up judges, to deliver them out of the hand of them that afflicted them; but they hearkened not unto them.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land; but the king of Edom would not hearken. And they sent to the king of Moab, and he would not; and Israel abode in Kadesh.
So David rose up, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Urijah the son of Arioch, the king of Gath.
And the three hundred blowing the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his brethren, even throughout all the host: and the army fled to Beth Shemesh in the valley, and unto the border of Abel, unto the bath.
And Shammah took hold of the two pillars upon which the house rested, and leaned upon them the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, Behold, we pray thee, for a spirit of grief is upon thee.
And Saul answered him, and said, He told us that the asses had returned; but he spake nothing unto him of Samuel's words concerning the kingdom.
And the children of Israel went out against Benjamin; and the children of Israel stood up against them for battle at Gibeah.
And as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah, to pray for you: I will instruct thee in the good and righteous way.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me well, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
And the wife of Gilead bare unto him sons; and the sons of the wife grew up, and cast out the topaz, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in the house of our father; for thou shalt not be heir.
And David received at her hand all that she had brought him, and said unto her, Go in peace into thy house; behold, I have heard thy voice, and hast glorified thy face.
And David enquired of Jehovah again. And he answered and said unto him, Arise, and go to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
And the angel answered him, If thou meddle with me, I will not eat of thy bread: but if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, offer it unto Jehovah: and man knew not that it was the angel of Jehovah.
And David came to commune at Nob, to Abimelech the priest; and Abimelech trembled at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And Israel trusted in their strength, and their number, and set up their host in the same place where they had fought before.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my wine, which speak God and man, and go to be exalted over the trees?
For who, when they heard it, were disobedient? Not all came out of Egypt by Moses.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand; and they slew of them ten thousand men.
And Jonathan said, My father hath brought trouble upon the earth: see now that my eyes are white, because I have tasted a little of this honey.
And Jehovah visited Anna, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel was great before Jehovah.
For I know that this shall turn forth to my salvation by your supplication and the fulness of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
Therefore we say, Jehovah is my help; I will not fear; what can man do unto me?
For as long as the son of Jesse is alive upon the earth, thou and thy kingdom be not established: therefore send therefore, and bring him to me; for he shall surely die.
And the Syrians fled, and chased after him, and caught him, and cut off his hands, and his great toes.
And the children of Israel returned to the children of Benjamin, and they put them to the edge of the sword, even the inhabitants of the city, and the beasts that were found; and they set on fire all the cities that they found.
And Moses was born three months by faith by his parents, because they saw the child attractive, and were not afraid of the order of the king.
and said, I cause you to come up out of Egypt, and bring you into the land which I sware unto your fathers, and say, I will not break my covenant with you for ever; and ye shall not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land, their altars ye shall break down, and ye will not hearken unto my voice, what ye have done.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, as thou comest to Shur, which is before Egypt.
And it came to pass when he was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and went after the Baalim, and set up Baal, as their god.
And he brought down the people unto the waters; and Jehovah said unto Israel, Every one that goeth out of the water with his tongue, as a dog's dog, shall thou set by himself; and likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.
And Baal the son of Joash reigned in his own house.
Wherefore, my dear brethren, as ye always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much more in my sight, working out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And the children of Ammon answered them, and I will make a covenant with you, that I may pluck out all your right eyes, and make you a reproach in all Israel.
Now I beseech you, brethren, bear with my word of exhortation; for indeed I write unto you briefly.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned, do thou unto us according to all that is good in thine sight: save us, we pray thee this day.
But as for us, the high priest came to us, to be a priest, according to the order of Malchijah.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight in Keilah, and they are in the threshing-floor.
And the children of Benjamin were threescore thousand men, and all mighty men of war.
And after him repaired the name of the house of Bethlehem, which is called Bethlehem.
But ye are come unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the high Jerusalem, and unto a multitude of angels.
And Saul enquired of Jehovah; but Jehovah answered him not by dreams, nor by the Urim, nor by the prophets.
And his lord said unto him, Let us not turn aside into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; but we have passed over unto Gibeah.
And the Philistines stood on the mount on one side and Israel on the mount on the other side; and there was a valley between them.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned to the house of Ramah; and Elkanah slept with him, and the Lord remembered her.
And the children of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the children of Israel set themselves in array against them at Gibeah.
Jehovah therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And Shammah the son said unto her, If they bind me with seven green cords, which are not dried up, I shall be weak, and be like another man.
She shall not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her let her keep.
Brethren, I reckon not myself to lay hold of myself; and that which is left of the things that forget, and that which is in the past,
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with the sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I came unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, whom thou hast reproached.
And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, and the king of Heshbon, and said unto him, Let us pass through thy land unto my place.
And Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of the field, and the inhabitants of Sela; and the Canaanites dwell in it, and they became tributary.
And he went to Ramah, and came to the great well of Tyre; and he asked the people, saying, Where are Samuel and David? And they said, They are at Ramah.
And the men of Israel, who were beyond the valley, and who were beyond the Jordan, that the men of Israel had fled, and that Saul and his sons had died; and they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came in, and dwelt in them.
And they put away the strange gods out of the midst of them, and became the servants of Jehovah; and his soul was wroth because of the sorrows of Israel.
And they came down from the high place into the city; and Samuel talked with Saul upon the top of the house.
For that much of a good covenant hath Jesus become surety,
And he made him that remaineth over the nobles among the people: Jehovah hath made me lord over the mighty.
And we saw that they could not enter through unbelief.
and he said, Our kindred have made an oblation in the city, and my brethren have commanded me to be there. Now therefore, if I have found grace in your eyes, let me go and see my brethren: therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.
And Jonathan again made David swear, because he loved him: for he loved him with the love of his soul.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: therefore they called that place Dan, unto this day. Behold, it is behind Kiriath Jearim.
And there remained of all the tribe of Benjamin six hundred men that were able to escape, and fled to the wilderness; and they abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
And here are some that perish, that they receive tithes; but there of whom the witness is, that he liveth;
and by faith also, with Sarah, he also received the old age, because he counted the promise that was promised.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim, and the Ashtaroth; but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And on that day he called him Jerubbesheth, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath cast down his altar.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance belongeth unto me, saith Jehovah, and I will repay him; and the Lord will judge his people.
Rejoice ye in Jehovah always: Again will I say, Rejoice.
And he shall take the tithe of thy sheep, and ye shall be his servants.
And when he was come into his house, he took the knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her with her bones, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
having chosen rather to be afflicted with the people of God, than to have sinned a season,
For he then will I hope to send in haste, when I am able to see how things shall be for me:
and they went away from him, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
And David was wise in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
And he said unto him, Thus saith the parable, Israel took not the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
For this day the Lord will deliver thee into mine hand, and I will smite thee, and I will cut off thy head; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day to the fowl of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God that is for Israel.
Now the sons of Heli were children of Belial, not knowing the Lord.
I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house: for my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
even as it is right for me to think of you all, because I have in my heart, in my bonds, and in my defence, and in the proof of the gospel all of you in grace with me.
And David spake, and said to Abimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And all Israel heard, saying, Saul hath smitten the garrison of the Philistines; and moreover, Israel is become a stench among the Philistines. So the people were called after Saul at Gilgal.
And Saul said unto his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and kill me; lest these uncircumcised come, and slay me, and make fun of me. And his armourbearer would not: for he was smitten with great fear. Then Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And Micah took the hand of the Levite, and the young man was unto him for a priest; and he was in the house of Micah.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood round about him, Hear now, O Benjamin: Shall the son of Jesse give thee fields and vineyards? shall he make thee captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
and choose him out of all the tribes of Israel, to be my priest, to offer upon my altar, to burn incense, to put the ephod before me? and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offerings of the children of Israel.
And Asher did not take possession of the inhabitants of Sodom, nor the inhabitants of Sidon; neither did the inhabitants of Achzib, nor the inhabitants of Achzib, nor the Canaanite, nor the Arkite, nor Rehob.
If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, we will serve thee; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then thou shalt be servants, and shalt serve us.
and he took it out in his hand, and went on, and ate as he went; and he came to his father and to his mother, and gave them, and they did eat; but he told them not that he had taken the honey out of the dead's dead.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have done wickedly: roll me now a great stone.
And all this congregation shall know, that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for it is his war, and he will deliver you into our hands.
And Ehud fled, and tarried still, and passed over beyond the waters, and escaped unto the place of water.
And the five men went, and came to Laish, and see the people that dwelt in the midst of the Sidonians, and quiet and secure; and there was none to put to shame in the land in any way, and there was no restraint in the country, and they were far off from the Zidonians, and have no word with man.
For God is my witness, that I long for you all in Christ Jesus.
And God did according to the evil that Abimelech committed against his father, and slew his brethren seventy.
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him; and he feared the house of his father and the men of the city; and he could not do it by day, but did it by night.
And when thou comest into the city, thou shalt find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat until he come, because he shall bless the sacrifice; and afterward the invited guests shall eat: then go up, for ye shall find him this day.
And it came to pass, when David had gone after David, that he fought against the Philistines: and there was a place called of the Philistines.
But the archers fled; and they pursued him, and caught him, and cut off his hands, and his great toes.
Salute all your rulers, and all the saints, and the salutations with you.
and Jehovah will give Israel up with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah will give up the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And the man went out of the city, out of the valley of Judah, to sojourn where he found; and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to work his way.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you before many, that I may be comforted, when I hear you.
And David arose, and fled that day from the face of Saul; and he came to Moses the king of Gath.
And Jonathan said unto David, Tomorrow is the new moon; and thou shalt be left, for thy throne is desolate.
And it was told to Saul, saying, David is in Ramah in Ramah.
And there were two wives of David's wife, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah, and offered peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced with great joy.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed thou by Jehovah: I have done the commandment of Jehovah.
And David went out when Saul sent him, and he reigned; and he set him over the men of the war, and it pleased all the people, and pleased the servants of Saul.
And it came to pass, when his son Eliab heard the words that he spake unto the men, and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou left the few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the imagination of thy heart, for thou hast come down to see the battle.
And all the men of Israel came up from their place, and encamped at Baal Tamar; and the ambush of Israel came forth out of the place of Gibeah.
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was red, and the appearance of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look to. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him: for this is he.
But now they search unto a good land, that is, a man of heaven; therefore God is not ashamed of them to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city.
But Hananiah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
Behold, I place the wool of wool in the threshing-floor: if the dew is upon the wool alone, and upon all the earth, I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken.
Now therefore, if thou hast done well and righteousness in making Abimelech king, and hast done well to destroy Baal and to his house for the work of his hands,
And the king said unto her, Fear not; for what hast thou seen? And the woman said unto Saul, I have seen gods coming up out of the earth.
Why hast ye rejected my sacrifices, and my offerings which I commanded to be offered in the house? And hast thou rather honored thy sons more than me, to eat the first-fruits of all my people Israel?
For it is known that our Lord is a seed of the children of Judah, whereof Moses spake nothing concerning the priests.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Shammah, and the child grew; and Jehovah blessed him.
For the law hath a shadow of good things, and not the very image of the things, nor of the present sacrifice, which they have offered year by year, shall not be able to make it perfect.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to-day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
So that we might say, Jehovah my help, and I will not be afraid; what shall man do unto me?
And the man said to him, I have come from the host, and fleeth to-day from the battle. And he said, How went it, my son?
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said, Thy house and thy father's house shall walk before me for ever; and now, saith Jehovah, I will not be far from me: for he that honoreth me, I will be glorified, and they that despised me shall be despised.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day, if he shall hear his voice,
that it became known through all the praetorium, and all the rest, that I was a prisoner for Christ.
He that despiseth the law of Moses dieth without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And he rose up, and followed his wife; and he came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou he that spake to the woman? And he answered, I am.
Then come down thou, O remnant of the nobles, O Jehovah; Come down with me in the midst of the mighty.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And David said in his heart, There shall be a day of death to me by the hand of Saul; but the only thing for me to go to the land of the Philistines; then Saul shall trust with me in any of the land of Israel, and I shall flee from him.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and took him up, and brought him up, and buried him in the sepulchre of the giants, in the sepulchre of man his father; and he had judged Israel twenty years.
He trusted unto him that made him, as also Moses in all his house.
And it was said to Saul, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, taking the blood with the flesh. And he said unto them that told him, Now let a great stone be rolled up to me.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David.
The lion and the bear have thy servant smitten; and this uncircumcised Philistines shall be as one of them: for he hath reproached the hosts of the living God.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not deliver you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And Saul was very wroth, and the saying was displeasing to him; and he said, They have sought unto David ten thousands; and to me they have chosen many thousands; and what can he have more but the kingdom?
and let us draw near with a true heart in the fulness of faith, having our heart loosed from an evil conscience, and having our body washed with pure water;
and this sign unto thee shall be unto thee the sign that cometh unto thy two sons, the son of Levi, the son of Phinehas, in one day.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, If thou wilt keep me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah: for man knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after Dan their father, who was born to Israel: but the name of the city was Laish.
And the people had pity on the children of Benjamin, because Jehovah had cast out his wrath upon the tribes of Israel.
if by any means I may attain unto the resurrection from the dead.
And thou shalt go from thence, and come unto the oak of Tabor; and there shall three men meet thee, who go up to Bethel, and three rams of the goats: and one shall bear three loaves of bread, and a skin of wine.
And Shammah the son said unto them, I will give you a riddle, which if ye declare unto me within the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty coats, and as many coats.
And David heard in the wilderness, which the Carmelite was shearing his sheep.
So they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines, and said, Cast the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to the place thereof, that it may not kill us and our people. For there was confusion in all the city, and the hand of God was very heavy.
Now the words which David had spoken were heard, and they brought them word unto Saul, and he called him.
So David went, and he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook, and where they that were left, remained.
And let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah, and they that love him as the going forth of the sun in his might. And the land rested forty years.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave the girdle to them that told the parable: and his anger burned, and went up to his father's house.
But I trust in Jehovah that I also will come shortly.
And at the time of her death, the women who stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the nobles of the Philistines were there; and there were three thousand men, and women on the roof, looking at the head, and were mocked.
And the messengers came in, and, behold, the teraphim were upon the bed, and the bands of goats, and his bands.
For to which of the messengers said he ever, My son thou art: I have begotten thee this day: and again, I will be unto him for a father, and he shall be mine for a son.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of a congregation will I sing praise unto thee; and again, I will trust in him.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the vessel which was beside it, in which were the gold vessels, and set them upon the great stone; and the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and offered sacrifices unto Jehovah on that day.
And Jair rose up after him, and he judged Israel two years.
In this manner also God, being determined to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise, according to the word of his mouth,
And the servants of old say unto him, Is not this king king of the land? Is it not this that they sing in dance, saying, Saul smote with his thousands, and David among his ten thousands?
And Saul looked upon David from that day and thenceforth.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode at Hormah; and Jonathan went to his house.
And Saul would send his spear through him, and thrust him into the wall; but he escaped, and the spear went into the wall: and that night David fled and fled.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever them that are sanctified.
And it came to pass, when he had gone, that the king's servants came, and saw that the doors of the summer house were shut; and they said, It may be that he is in his summer house for a secret.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, O thou mighty man of valour.
And the kings came and fought, and smote the kings of Canaan with the waters of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo; and they took no profit.
Only worthy of the glad tidings of the Christ, that if having come and seen you, whether being absent I may hear of the things concerning you, that ye stand fast in one spirit with one soul, striving for the faith of the gospel;
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them a saviour, and Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite, who shut his right hand. And the children of Israel sent by his hand to Eglon, king of Moab.
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up: for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be a sign unto us.
who in the days of his flesh, having offered up both supplications, and supplications unto him that was able to save him out of death, with great weeping and tears; and having been heard in his fear,
and he said, Send me away, I pray thee, for a house sacrifice we have in the city, and my brother himself hath commanded me; and now, if I have found grace in thine eyes, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren; therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.
And the Amorites drove the children of Dan into the hill-country; for they would not let them go down into the valley.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that was the second day of the month, that the place of David was desolate; and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why is not the son of Jesse to eat, neither yesterday, nor to day?
Gilead is left beyond the Jordan: why did Dan dwell in ships with ships? Asher sat at the waters of the waters, And by his habitation he dwelt.
The Lord hath broken down his adversaries; He thundereth against them in the heavens; Jehovah judgeth the ends of the earth, And giveth strength to his king, And exalteth the horn of his anointed.
And David returned, and went forth from Saul to feed the sheep of his father at Bethlehem.
In the days of Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, in the days of Jai, the caravans were ceased, and the wayfaring men kept the way.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy strength, and thou shalt deliver Israel out of the hand of Midian: know that I have sent thee.
And Elon the Hittite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And shall not thou take possession of thy god Chemosh? and he that Jehovah our God hath driven out before us, they shall we possess.
And likewise he saith unto another, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Malchijah.
that thou mayest do all good things, that thou mayest do his will, and do in thee that which is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And Saul saw David with jealousy from that day onward.
And it came to pass on the morrow that the wicked spirit of God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house; but David was with his hand, as on other days; and the spear was in Saul's hand.
And after him, Elon the Netophathite, prince of Israel, was prince over Israel: for ten years he reigned over Israel.
And the uncle of Saul said unto him and to his servant, Whence goest thou? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were not found, we came to Samuel.
And Abigail came to Nabal the Carmelite; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, as a feast of the king, and the heart of Nabal was merry within him; and he drank unto him nothing, more or more, until the light of the morning.
And Samuel said, All Israel shall come to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for thee.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel answered, for thy servant heard.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and thorns; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
And Jesse made Shammah to pass by: and he said, Jehovah hath not chosen this man.
And Jonathan answered his father Saul, saying unto him, Why should he die? what hath he done?
And Saul gathered all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou art come unto me with the sword, and with a spear, and with a spear: but I came unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, even the God of Israel, upon which thou hast put shame.
For they speak such things, And they seek the land.
always always in all my petitions for you all making my supplication with joy,
And a certain woman cast a garment upon the head of Abimelech, and brake his head.
Because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, neither did the fierceness of his anger upon Amalek; therefore Jehovah hath done this day unto thee this day.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and took his seat under the oak in Ophrah, in the field of Joash the Hushathite; and he smote the corn in the place of the winepress, so that the Midianites might not see it.
And David and his men, about six hundred of them, went forth out of Keilah, and went whither they were to go. And Saul heard that David had departed from Keilah, and went not thither.
And when the Philistines had the hair of this, and it was noised among them, that Jonathan the son came into the city, and surrounded him, and set guards at the gate of the city, and beheld there all the night in silence, that in the morning they might slay him as he went out.
and thou sawest an adversary in my habitation, in all that he doeth good with Israel, and there is not a man old in thy house all the days.
And they put his armor in the house of the Zidonians, and they laid his body upon the wall of Beth Shean.
Rejoice in Jehovah always: I say, Rejoice ye.
But Hananiah went not, for she said unto her husband, I will not go until the child is taken from the breast, and I will take him with me, and set him before Jehovah, where he may be for ever.
So David arose early in the morning, and went to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And Shammah the son went down to Timnah, and saw a woman of the daughters of the Philistines.
He had thirty sons riding upon thirty thousand, and they have thirty cities; and they called them Havoth-Jair unto this day, which in the land of Gilead.
Now when he saith a new, he hath made the old old: and that which breaketh and groweth old, is at the end thereof.
And Samuel said, Doth Jehovah desire burnt-offerings and sacrifices, and not rather that the voice of Jehovah should be heard? for it is better than sacrifice, and to hear rather than to offer the fat of rams.
Yea, Jehovah, in the beginning, laid the foundation of the earth: The heavens are the works of thy hands.
And it came to pass, as he talked with them, that, behold, the mighty men of Gath, the Gittite, came up out of the ranks of the Philistines, and said the same words, and David heard them.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they spread upon all the earth, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
As all the works that they have done from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt unto this day, they have forsaken me and served other gods, so that they do unto you also.
But one hath testified, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or the son of man that thou visitest him?
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I feared the people, and hearkened unto their voice.
And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, shew me a sign, that thou speakest with me.
Neither shall he offer himself often, as the high priest shall enter into the holy place of the year by year with blood;
But if thou wilt do wickedness, thou and thy king shall be utterly consumed.
And the lords of the Philistines went on with their troops, and with their thousands; and David and his men came after his face.
But where there is forgiveness of them, there is no sin for sin.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and spake unto them in the ears of Jehovah.
For whom Jehovah loveth, he correcteth; And every son whom he receiveth.
And he smote it in the pan, and the pot, and the pot, and the pot, and the pot; and the priest took of it all that the birds brought up. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
And they set them up the graven image of Micah, which he made, even all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Saul said, Draw near hither, all the chief of the people; and know, and know, wherein this sin is this day.
And this we will do, if God allows.
And Ephraim did not drive forth the Canaanite that dwelt in Gezer; and the Canaanites dwelt in the midst of Gezer.
that ye may be blameless and righteous, children of God without blemish in the midst of a perverse and crooked generation, among whom ye shall be as the stars of the earth.
But I rejoice greatly in the Lord, that thy visitation is come to life, and thou hast visited me, and hast not attained unto it.
and being made perfect, he became the fountain of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
Speak unto the people, and proclaim in the audience of all, I all that are fearful and careless, let him return. So two and twenty thousand went away from mount Gilead, and returned to their tents ten thousand.
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate.
For I have no pleasure in the heart of any man, that should be with the perfect man.
And he said unto all Israel, Ye are on one side, and I and Jonathan my son are on another side. And the people said unto Saul, What is good in thine eyes?
And Abimelech went to smite at Thebez; and he encamped against him, and took it.
Neither did Naphtali cast out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Ramah; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Bethshemesh, and the inhabitants thereof were forced to work for them.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went toward the north, and said unto them, Wherefore pass thou over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
and now the king shall go before thee; but I am old and white; and my sons are with thee, and have talked with thee from my youth unto this day; behold, here am I.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son: and Jonathan was taken.
And these things were so prepared, into the first tabernacle: even at all times the priests went in, doing the service.
And the king said unto him, How long dost thou deceive me, and tell me a lie? show me that thou mayest be bound. And the son answered her, If thou wilt put the seven bands of my head with a cord, and bind them round about a peg, I shall be weak.
And he smote them from Aroer, until ye came to Hamath, and twenty cities, and unto Abel, which is laid with vineyards, with a very great slaughter; and the children of Ammon were subdued by the children of Israel.
For that princes led in Israel; For the people willingly offered themselves, Bless Jehovah.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all his host that were with him; and Abimelech took the axe in his hand, and cut down a bundle of sticks, and he took it, and put it upon his shoulder. And he said to the people that were with him, What thou hast seen me, quickly do.
And the fire began to rise up out of the city, as a pillar of smoke, and Benjamin looked behind; and, behold, the whole city ascended up unto heaven.
For our God is a consuming fire.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake; for it hath pleased Jehovah to make thee a people for himself.
Only lead ye your lives in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you, or am absent, I hear your things, that ye stand firm in one spirit, with one accord with one accord for the faith of the gospel;
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, that I will teach them my statutes, and I will write them upon their heart.
But if ye are without instruction, of which all have been made partakers of, then are ye taking hold of and not sons.
Prepare ye one new oxen, and two oxen, which have no yoke upon them; and thou shalt beat the kine unto the cart, and turn their calves from following them.
And if thou shalt be afraid to go down, go thou with thy servant down into the camp.
And Jesse called upon Abinadab, and made him pass by before Samuel; and he said, Even the Lord hath not determined.
And Hananiah answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a faint spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And the kings of Canaan came to the battle, and the kings of Canaan fought, and the waters of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo, and did not profit them.
And they made their heart glad, and behold, the men of the city, the sons of Belial, surrounded the house, and beat at the door; and they spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
And the watchman saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, If thou wilt tell us the way into the city, we will be gracious unto thee.
And Moses believed not the son of Pharaoh, when he became a man.
And Saul dwelt in the uttermost parts of Gibeah under the thick part of the pomegranates; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner begat Abner, and the son of Ezbai,
And David said unto the priest the priest, The king hath commanded me a thing, and said, Let no man know the thing for which thou art sent by me, and what commandment I have given thee; and I have set my servants unto such and such a place.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house; and the child was before the Lord that was before him;
And Japhlet went into Mizpah, and, behold, his daughter was come out to meet him with timbrels, and with singing, and saved her alone, he had none, son or daughter.
And, behold, Saul came after the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, What the people weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
that my bands are made manifest in Christ, in all the court, and in all other places;
And let God smite the enemies of David, and let him again do this thing if I leave nothing until the morning, and not one man.
And Adam said unto his wife, We die, for we have seen God.
And they found a valley in the valley, and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And Jonathan made David swear again, because he loved him: for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
To our God and Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
For God hath kept good things for us, that it is not possible for them to be perfected without us.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Lo, Zebah and Zalmunna, of whom thou hast reproached me, saying, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give food to thy weary men?
Then came down a remnant of the nobles, and the people; Jehovah came down for me against the mighty.
And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such thing or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider, take counsel, and speak your heart.
And Saul cast his spear upon him to smite him; and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to put David to death.
And Zebulun was a people that bare their lives to death; and Naphtali also, in the high places of the field.
And Hobab the Jebusite, Moses' father-in-law, had come up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Arad; and he went and dwelt among the Amalekites.
but the chief priest, even the high priest, went up to him once, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the error of the people.
And she arose, and bowed herself upon her face to the earth, and said, Behold, thy handmaid is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And his master said unto him, We will not go out of our way into a strange city, whose people are not of the children of Israel: but we will go on unto Gibeah.
And he returned after a time to take her; and he turned aside to see the dead bodies of the lion; and, behold, a swarm of bees was in the carcases of the lion and of the honey.
nor in order that he should offer himself often, as the high priest enter into the holy places every year with his own blood;
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
And they forgat Jehovah their God, and delivered them into the hand of Meribah, a captain of the army, and over the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth shook.
And she said unto Shammah the son of Barachel, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and hast told me lies: tell me that thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shouldest weave the hair of my head with the house.
And the tabernacle was set up, and the candlestick, and the table, and the table, which is called the holy place.
For it was he, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many children to glory, to make the God of their salvation perfect through the sufferings.
And he said unto him, Where is thy glorying, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? Is this not the multitude that thou hast rejected? let us go forth now, and fight against them.
And Melchizedek, the king of Salem, the priest of God Most High, who met Abraham from smiting the kings, and blessed him,
Therefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; but thou hast prepared a body for me.
All the saints salute you; especially they that are of Caesar's household.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel at Mizpah.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim, and the rod, and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Jonathan said unto David, Let Jehovah, the God of Israel, be witness; for I have said a word to my father concerning this time tomorrow, if his heart is good to David, will I not send and tell thee?
The brethren that are with me salute you. All the saints salute you; especially they that are of Caesar's household.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against the Philistines to fight with him; for thou art but a youth, and a man of war from his youth.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that thou saidst unto me, and have made a king over you.
And the Philistines gathered all their encampments unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped at the fountain of Jezreel.
And the children of Ammon were called together, and encamped in Gilead; and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And they sent the ark of God into Ekron; and the ark of God came to Ekron, and said, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to slay us and our people.
And Saul said, Hear, I pray thee, son of Ahitub. And he said, Here am I, my lord.
And the children of Israel went up thence, every man to his tribe, and to his house; and they went forth thence every man to his inheritance.
Take heed to your elders, and be obedient; for they watch over your souls as those that give account, that they may do this with joy, and not sigh; for this would be unprofitable for you.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: ye shall not worship the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell; but thou heardest not my voice.
And all the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and the people of the east, gathered together, and passed over the Jordan; and they encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And Samuel took the bottle of oil, and anointed his head, and kissed him, and said, Is not Jehovah with the holy oil to reign over Israel, and to his people? and thou shalt have dominion over the people of Jehovah, and thou shalt deliver them from the hand of their enemies round about them, and this shall be the sign unto thee.
who were made not according to the law of the flesh, but according to the power of corruption.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we may not die; for we have multiplied all our sins by asking a king for us.
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, We will not any man go to his tent, neither shall any man turn into his house.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for from all this people I have borne your evil ways.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, If thou wilt keep me, I will not eat of thy bread; but if thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, let it be offered unto Jehovah: for it had not come into another man's mind that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And Ehud made himself a sword, which had two corners, a cubit in length; and he put it under his garment upon his right thigh.
and thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the golden stones, which ye shall return unto him for a trespass-offering, and put in the hem thereof by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go.
and take their daughters unto them for wives, and their daughters to their sons, and serve their gods;
And it came to pass, when Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise that was in the camp of the Philistines went on, and increased; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And David went up thence, and pitched himself in the place of En Gedi.
And the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and upon the roof there were about three thousand men and women, who looked upon the loins, and were mocked.
And David rose up early, he and his men, to go in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And Hananiah prayed before Jehovah, saying, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah; my horn is lifted up in Jehovah: my mouth is open over mine enemies; for my joy is in thy salvation.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man to his place.
and not one of these are the good things of the covenant, though they all had a good report through faith;
And David was hid in the field, and it was the new moon; and the king sat down by the meat to eat.
And Samuel gathered the people together unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And it came to pass after days, in the days of the wheat harvest, that Elhanan the son of Barachel looked after his wife, and said, I go in unto my wife, to the inner chamber; and her father refuseth him to go in.
And David said unto his young men, Let every man put his sword upon his head, and they girded every man his sword; and David also girded his sword, and there followed David about four hundred men; and two hundred men were left with the goods.
And he brought him to his house, and fed the asses; and they washed their feet, and ate, and drank.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make a king king over them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
For from the first day until now thou shalt help the gospel.
And when he had finished prophesying, he came to the high place.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel; and Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped by them; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And Japhlet went with the elders of Gilead; and the people made him head, and captain over them; and they gave up all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And when Samuel rose early to meet him in the morning, it was told to Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up, and passed on, and passed on to Gilgal.
And the hair of his head began to shoot, when he was shaved,
Therefore I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.
And the man arose to go away; but his father-in-law would not let him go, and lay his rest there again for the night.
Therefore let us also, seeing we are round about, so great a cloud of witnesses, putting aside every weight and sin which is ready for us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us;
And they said, Why hath the Lord God of Israel done this in Israel, that there should be one tribe in Israel?
and said, Thou, Jehovah, hast laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the works of thy hands;
Think ye therefore in yourselves which is in Christ Jesus,
and took captive the women and all that were therein, both small and great, and they slew not any, but carried them away, and went their way.
And Jehoshaphat the son of Joash went, and dwelt in his own house.
And the men of Israel were called from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh; and they pursued after Midian.
And the lords of the Philistines gathered them together, to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy into our hand.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel: and the land had rest fourscore years.
And Job said unto his servants, Behold, ye see a man that is mad; why bring ye him to me?
And David said to Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me a thing, and hath said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business upon which I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee; and I have charged the young men to such and such a place.
And afterward the children of Judah pursued after the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and the south, and the lowland.
And David was greatly afflicted: for the people had a heart to stone him; for the soul of every man was grieved for his sons and for his daughters; but David took courage in Jehovah his God.
And Jair died, and was buried in the tomb.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel: and Israel went out to meet the Philistines, and they encamped at Aphek; and the Philistines encamped at Aphek.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Show the right. And Jonathan and Saul were chosen, but the people fled.
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law: and the days were not fulfilled.
Now if it was possible for the priests of the house of the Levites, ( for the law was given unto the people of the congregation), what need was there for the priest that is of the order of Melchizedek, and not of the commandment of Aaron?
And the uncle of Saul said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee.
And the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not to the words of Japhlet, which he sent him by the messengers.
And Jesse took a ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by the hand of David his son to Saul.
Now therefore take thou, and prepare yourselves a new cart, and two milk kine, on which there hath come no yoke; and thou shalt bind the kine to the cart, and bring their cattle away from them.
So let us go out unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
And a certain man of the people told him, saying, Thy father made the people swear, saying, Cursed be he that eateth bread to-day; and the people faint.
And they took their bones, and buried them in Jabesh in Jabesh; and they fasted seven days.
And again he bringeth in the first begotten into the world, and saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit of God was upon Saul, that David took an instrument and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
By faith it is clear unto us that the commandment of things was confirmed by the word of God, that the things which are seen are not made of things.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels; Thou crowest him with glory and majesty, And hast set him over the works of thy hands.
Moreover they ought to cleanse the deed of the things which are in heaven, and that they are cleansed from the offerings of heaven than these.
So the Philistines fought, and Israel was overthrown; and every man fled to his own house; and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
For where there is a covenant, the death of the law must come in.
And they inclosed the children of Benjamin round about, and chased them, and smote them with ease upon Gibeah toward the sunrising.
and he hath not to offer himself again, as the high priest goeth into the holy place every year with blood which is not his;
And David heard in the wilderness that the man of Nabal shear his sheep.
and now arise early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that have come with thee, when ye have risen early in the morning, and have light, then go ye.
And the land rested forty years: and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And all things concerning the law are cleansed with blood; and without blood there is no remission.
And Saul fell all on the ground: for he was afraid with the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had not eaten bread all that day.
Whereupon neither the first covenant was sanctified without blood.
And the children of Israel did not remember Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of their enemies round about,
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which is good in thine eyes; tarry, till thy time be upon him; but Jehovah establish his word. And the woman abideth, and taketh her son till she had weaned him.
And many of the brethren in the Lord, being bold in my bonds, are bold to speak the word without fear.
But if I am poured out upon the sacrifice and the ministry of your faith, I rejoice and joy with you all;
So Israel set an ambush round about Gibeah.
And David came to Ziklag, and he sent some of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, This is a gift for you from the hand of the enemies of Jehovah.
Take heed to them that have dominion over you, and be subject unto you; for they watch for your souls, as they ought to give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with sorrow: for that is unprofitable for you.
For there is a turning aside of the commandment, that it should go before for its infirmity, and that which is lacking.
And it shall come to pass, that the glory of Israel shall not speak falsely, neither shall his device be changed: for he is not a man, whose purpose is changed.
And he went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn, my lord, turn in unto me; be not afraid. And he came in unto her into the tent, and covered him with an astonishment.
And it came to pass, when the fire was kindled from off the altar toward heaven, that the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar; and Adam and his wife looked upon, and fell upon their faces to the earth.
And the princes of the Philistines went out; and David increased himself more than all the servants of Saul, and his name was highly esteemed.
And it came to pass, when the time came to give unto him the daughter of Saul, the daughter of Saul, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
And Shammah the son and his father went down to Timnah, and they came to the vineyards of Timnah; and suddenly a young lion roareth to meet him.
Because of the fat of the mighty men of Israel; For the people gave willingly, and praised Jehovah.
Behold, my daughter, that is a virgin, and his concubine; let me bring them out, and afflict them, and do unto them as is good in thy sight; but to this man do not so wickedly.
seeing therefore it remaineth, that some should enter into it; and they to whom the good tidings was before the preaching, came in, because of unbelief;
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Jehovah unto Jehovah? And, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabeshgilead unto the congregation.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in the cities, and dwelt in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
And he that had sacrificed said unto him, Let the fat be burnt to day according to the custom, and then take as much as thy soul desireth. But he answered and said unto him, Not so; but thou shalt give it me now, or else I will take it by force.
And it came to pass in the days of the wheat harvest, that the son of Barachel came to his wife with a young goat; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and he oppressed the children of Israel twenty years.
which way he did eat for us, new and alive, through the veil, that is, his flesh;
And when Bela was come to Gaza, he saw a woman a harlot, and went in unto her.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
Then he called, and said, My son Samuel. And he answered, Here am I.
Now the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and Lord Jesus Christ.
Know ye that Timotheus our brother is loosed, with whom I will see thee, if he come quickly.
If, then, any exhortation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if a fellowship of spirit, if any of his bowels and compassion be in his heart,
And she arose, and bowed himself with her face to the earth, and said, Behold, thy servant be a handmaid, to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, there is found in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver, let us give it to the man of God, that he may tell us our way.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Let the woman know what I say unto her.
But this oath by him that said unto him, The Lord hath sworn, and he will not repent; thou art a priest for ever.
Now therefore keep thou, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before thine eyes.
And Saul said unto the servants that stood by him, Hear, I pray thee, O sons of Benjamin: Shall the son of Jesse give thee all fields and vineyards? shall he make all of thee captains of thousands and captains of hundreds?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in order against Gibeah, as at the time.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: The sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And when they heard it, they gave Saul word, and he sent for him.
And the children of Israel and Judah rose up, and pursued the Philistines, until they came to the valley, and to Ekron; and there fell many slain of the Philistines in the way of Sharon, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
And the people said unto Saul, Is it dead to Jonathan the servant of this great salvation for Israel? let it not be so: but let not the head of Jehovah's head be touched, for he hath been working with God to-day. So they kept Jonathan from death.
And the name of the man of Nabal was the name of Abigail, and the name of his wife Abigail, and the woman of good understanding, and the man hard and evil; and he was a companion of Caleb.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, bread to the people that are with me, for they are faint: and we will pursue after them, and we will go after them, and we will be a Amorite king of Midian.
for he also suffered death; but God dealt kindly with him, and not with him only, but also with me, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow.
But if not, let fire come out of Abimelech, and burn up the inhabitants of Shechem and Beth houses; and let fire come out of the city of Shechem, and from the Millo, for the destruction of Abimelech.
And he said, Arise, I pray thee, to me, O king of the Amalekites, and to the king of the Amalekites, and to the king, and to the king of Agag, saying, Behold, the pangs of death are past.
And neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that went into the house of Dagon, nor walked upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
And when he had made an end of offering the tribute, he sent away the assembly.
And the Philistines were afraid, saying, God is come into the camp. And they said,
and be found in him, not having my judgment, which is of the law, but that which is of the faith of Christ Jesus, who is of God, righteousness in faith.
And the king said, Ask thee, whose son is this son.
Wherefore thou shalt make a molten image for thine ass, and for the idols of thy abominations, which destroyeth the land; and thou shalt give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure it may be that he will loose his hand from thee, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter Michal, I will give her to thee as wife: only be valiant unto me, and fight against Jehovah. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; and David put his armor in his tent.
and it shall come to pass in the morning when the sun riseth up upon the city, that when he shall come out against thee with his people, do unto him what thou shalt be able.
And she said unto the son of Barachel, Tell me, I pray thee, in the place of thy great strength, and in thy great power, that thou mayest afflict thee.
Now therefore, please forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may serve Jehovah.
And a high priest over the house of God,
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit of God is troubled thee.
And he ran and stood over the Philistines, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head. And the Philistines saw that their mighty men were dead, and fled away.
And Saul said, Thus shalt thou say to David, There is no pleasure to the king in marriage, but in a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be revenged upon the enemies of the king. And Saul thought to cause David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And when their fathers and their brethren come and cause trouble, then thou shalt say unto them, Give us to us as an inheritance of grace; for we took them not as wives for ourselves; and if ye had given them unto us, ye would bear the oath.
Wherefore we receive a kingdom which can not be moved: let us have grace, whereby we may serve God in the fear of God with fear and godliness.
And now, behold, this blessing which thy handmaid hath brought to my lord, it shall be given to the young men that go up and down at the feet of my lord.
And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said unto her, Forder him, and see in his great strength, and with what we may prevail against him, that we may bind him against him, and we will give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
But for all this thou hast given me up, and hast been servants unto other gods: therefore will I be thy salvation no more.
Then said he unto Zebah and Anammelech, What men were they, that ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one like the sons of a king.
and he took them into his house, and gave the asses bread; and he washed their feet, and they drank.
And as touching the matter that thou, and I have spoken, behold, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and they gathered themselves together to follow him, and sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
And Shammah said unto the young man that held him by the hand, Suffer me, that I may feel the pillars of the house, that I may lean upon them.
But Jonathan the son of Saul rejoiced greatly in David; and Jonathan answered David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and tarry in a secret place, and hide thyself.
But if I say thus to the lad, Behold, the arrows are far off thee, go thy way; for Jehovah will send thee away.
And when David knew that Saul had devised evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod.
And they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and they forgat their God, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth.
Swear unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, nor take my name from the house of my father.
And the three sons of Jesse went up, and followed Saul, and the name of his three sons: Eliab the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and Shammah the chief.
And it came to pass, when they were near Jebus, that the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusite, and dwell therein.
For they were many priests, because of their generations that they were hindered.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed the flock of his father at Bethlehem.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in wait in the vineyards;
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was greatly troubled.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art grown old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now appoint us a king to judge us, as all the nations.
Ye also know, ye also, that ye excel in the good tidings, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, there was no assembly with me in the word, but receiving, but ye only.
Behold, here is my daughter, a virgin, and his concubine: I will send them out for you to take them, and to do with them as thou shalt; but do not be ashamed to this man.
And when all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from before him, and were very afraid.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and the Ethiopians.
All the saints salute you, and especially those of the household of Caesar.
And he ran to him, and said, Lo, I am, for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And the lad went, and David rose from the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and fell three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David was greater.
And they found Adonimad, and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanites, and the Perizzites.
And they said, Thou hast not dealt with us, neither have thou oppressed us; neither hast thou taken anything out of the hand of any man.
and neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that went into the house of Dagon, and walked upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
And all the people went to Gilgal, and they made Saul king there before Jehovah in Gilgal, and offered sacrifices before Jehovah; and Saul rejoiced greatly with all the men of Israel.
And Ehud escaped, as they tarried, and passed over the images of the idols, and escaped to the well.
And Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his border; and Sihon gathered all his people, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought with Israel.
how much more shall the blood of Christ, which by the everlasting Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, cleanse our conscience from the dead, to serve the living God?
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah sent you on your way, that he said unto thee, Go, and destroy the sinners, and Amalek, and ye shall fight against them, until ye have destroyed them.
Then the hoofs of the horse shall be beaten with sore, Because of the rushing of the stamping of his chariots.
And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And there were seven hundred mighty men of valor, warring with the left hand as well as with the right hand; and they stoned stones, that they might beat themselves with a hair, and not by the stone that was on either side.
For a little while, and he that cometh shall come, and shall not tarry.
And the Lord discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before Zoan; and when Sisera lighted off his chariot, he fled away upon his feet.
For the seventy children of Chubaal, and their blood, came to Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the masters of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David in Ramah.
And if the name of Jonathan be cut off from the house of David, Jehovah will establish David.
And the children of Israel by side of Benjamin were four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
For consider him that hath endured the provocation of sinners, that ye faint not, and faint in your souls.
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem in Judah, and I go to sojourn in a stranger where I find a place.
And they set up to themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershon, the son of Moses; he and his sons were priests in the tribe of Dan, until the day of their captivity.
And he stood, and cried to the divisions of Israel, and said unto them, Why come ye out to prepare the battle in array? am I not the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? choose for yourselves a man, and let him come down to me.
And the woman bare a son, and she called his name Shammah: and the child grew great, and Jehovah blessed him.
And Samuel told the people the law of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah: and Samuel sent away all the people, every one to his own house.
For every house is built by men; but he that created all things is God.
And David received of her hand, which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace unto thine house: see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy soul.
So David took the spear, and the pitcher of water from off Saul's head; and they fled without any man, neither seeing them, nor awake; for they were all asleep, for a deep sleep from Jehovah came upon them.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
And they drew up their forces against Benjamin the third time, as they had done the first and the second.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of the assembly will I praise thee.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, saying, Send me thy son David, that is in the pastures.
And it said unto them, If ye will make me king, come ye and rest under my shadow; but if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and consume the cedars of Lebanon.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up a saviour for the children of Israel that gave them, and Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
Let nothing be done through strife, neither by vain glory; but in meekness let each man be better than himself.
And as for the matter concerning which ye and I spake, behold, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
Have I not gone mad, that ye have brought this one to me? shall this come into my house?
For when the commandment cometh, it cometh to pass because of his infirmity, and because of his infirmity;
But if thou canst not explain it unto me, thou shalt give me thirty linen garments, and thirty festal garments. And they said unto him, Tell thy riddle; let us hear it.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, which was Joash the Hushathite; and he smote the wheat in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
It grieved me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not kept my commandments. And Samuel was wroth, and cried unto Jehovah all night.
And afterward he fell in love with a woman in the valley of the Temanites, and her name was called by her name.
And to whom did he swear they would not enter into his rest, save the transgressors?
And God chose the heads of old men, and war was at the gates: a small shield, or a spear, was not seen among forty thousand in Israel.
Only let your way of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you, or be absent, I may hear of you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul for the faith of the gospel;
And he brought down the people unto the waters; and Jehovah said unto him, Every one that lieth in the waters with his tongue, like a dog's whelp, shalt thou set him by himself, and all that bow down upon his knees to drink.
And there was no lack of them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, nor spoil, nor anything that they had taken to them: David recovered all.
Now there went to pass where we had gone, Jesus, after the order of Melchizedek the high priest.
And all that were in distress, and all that were in debt, and all that were in ease, gathered themselves to him; and he became captain over them, and there were with him four hundred men.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
Let us hold fast the faith of our faith without wavering; for he is faithful that hath promised.
Now the rest of the sons of Moses, the son of Moses, the son of Moses, the son of Hobab, the son of Hobab, the son of Hobab, the father of Moses, and the son of Moses, the son of Moses, the son of Hobab, the father of Moses, the son of Hobab, the father of Moses, and the son of Moses, the son of Moses, the son of Hobab, the son of Hobab, the father of Moses, the son of Moses
and thou shalt cry because of thy king, whom thou hast taken for thyself: but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And he said, Come hither, and give me the burnt offering and the peace-offerings; and he made a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the two wives of David were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And we, having so great a cloud of witnesses, set round about us, having taken away the weight of sin, and the patience of sin, that we might run before us.
For the law shall appoint men chief priests, having infirmities, but the word of the oath, that after the law the Son should be made perfect.
And he said unto him, We are on our way from Bethlehem, even unto the parts of the hill-country of Ephraim; and I came from thence, and came to Bethlehem in Judah: now I go to my house, and no man shall bring me into his house.
and in this time, if they enter into my rest.
And this sin also against Jehovah, that I should cease to pray for thee, and I will teach you the good and the right way.
and that he sent his only begotten Son into the world, saying, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, that Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
But there is light for men of abundance, even unto them that are wise, and to those that are taught to see good and evil.
So the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin the second day.
For men indeed swear by a greater word, and with them the oath is a day to all strife, as a witness.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah saith unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do unto him as it pleaseth thee. Then David arose, and cut off the hem of the robe of Saul in secret.
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul, and the dead bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan; and they came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And the priest gave him holy; for there was no bread there, but the bread that was taken from before Jehovah, to put on hot bread in the day when they were taken away.
And Saul went on this side of the mount, and David and his men were on that side of the mount; and David hasted to recover Saul; for Saul and his men surrounded David, and his men.
And while Saul yet spake to the priest, the tumult of the Philistines increased more and more; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah; and the children of Israel said, Tell us, what is this evil?
I beseech thee, therefore, that I am called by the name of the Lord, that he should make a covenant with him.
For our redemption is in heaven, from whence we wait for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
but the second priest the high priest, once a year, not without blood, which he offereth for his own, and the people's ignorance:
And she said unto him, How sayest thou, I have loved thee, and thy heart is not with me? these three times thou hast played upon me, and hast not told me wherein thy great power.
For our freedom is in the heavens, where our Savior is, the Lord Jesus Christ:
And the child came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot: and Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Behold, the arrow is more than thee.
And thou shalt hear what they say; and afterwards thy hands shall be strengthened to go down to the camp. Then he went down with the staff of his servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in the camp.
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, when thou gavest to him bread and a sword, and didst inquire of God for him, that he might rise up against me to hide me, as hath been done this day?
And Moab was humbled that day under the hand of Israel: and the land abode eighty years.
And David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off, and he stood between them.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and the bearer of his weapons after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and the bearer of his weapons was slain after him.
And Jonathan called after the lad, and said, Haste, hasten not. And Jonathan's servant gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread, which is called the sanctuary.
And he said unto David, Thou art righteous, and I am wrong: for thou hast rewarded me, but I have given thee evil.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this thing that thou hast done unto us, not to call for us when thou goest to fight with Midian? And they contended with him.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not hate me, and cast me out of my father's house? and why come ye unto me now, when ye are in trouble?
For ye come not into a mountain that can be touched, and a burning fire, and a storm, and a storm, and a storm;
And Jonathan said unto David, Come and let us go forth into the field. And they both went out into the field.
And the words were heard which David spake; and they told them before Saul; and he sent for him.
And Jonathan said unto him, Tomorrow is the new moon; and it shall be seen that thou art not present; for there shall be no man in thy throne.
And he said unto her, Take thy place at the door of the tent; and if any one cometh and saith unto thee, Is there any man here, say, No.
and to the church of the firstborn, who are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect;
And he gave the money of the silver to his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to a artificer, a molten image, and a molten image; and it was in the house of Micah.
And Deborah said, Arise. This is the day that Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand: hath Jehovah not gone out before thee? And he went out from mount Tabor with ten thousand men following him.
Afterwards shalt thou come unto the mountain of God, where the garrison of the Philistines, and it shall come to pass, when thou comest into the city, that thou hast met a band of prophets coming down from the high place, and before them the harp, and the flute, and the flute, and the harp, and they prophesy;
And the children of Israel set an ambush round about the city of Gibeah.
that we may draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having the heart sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having the body washed with pure water;
For thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall touch his head; for he shall be a Nazarite of God, and of his youth, and of his mother's womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
But if thou canst not answer me, then thou shalt give me thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of apparel. And they said unto him, Make haste, and let us see what it is.
And they cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Have thou not answered Abner? And Abner said, Who weepeth to the king?
And he came to the field by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men remained in the midst of the cave.
And he went in, and prepared a kid of the goats, and an ephah of flour, and made unleavened cakes; and he put the meat in the basket, and the pottage in which it was boiled; and he brought it out unto him under the oak, and gave it unto him.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not to the words of Japhlet, which he had sent him.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear unto me by God; thou shalt not kill me, neither shalt thou shut me into the hand of my lord, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us go to one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah or Ramah.
And Jehovah again called again Samuel, and rose up, and came to Eli, and said, Here am I, for thou hast called for me; and he saith, I have not called, my son, return, lie down.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of the exhortation; for I have written unto you by few words.
And there was a sign unto the men of Israel with the ambush, that they should go up a great roll out of the city.
And the priest said, Behold, the sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou hast slain in the valley of God, is bound in a cloth behind the ephod; and if thou wilt take it, take it: for there is none besides that. And David said, There is none like that. Give it to me.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood over him, Hear now, ye Benjamin; and let the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, and make thee all captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds;
Because thou hearkened not unto the voice of Jehovah, neither did thou put his fierce anger upon Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
And the five men that went to spy out the land of Laish answered, and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a molten image, and a molten image? Now therefore consider what thou hast to do.
And he said unto them, I desire one of you: give me the ear of your goods: for the Ismaelites were wont to wear gold bottles.
for they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ.
And it came to pass, when David's servants came to Carmel, to Abigail, they said unto her, David hath sent us to thee to take thee to him as his wife.
And the woman saw Samuel, and crying with a loud voice, and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me, and thou, Saul?
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it, and gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
Now when Saul saw David going out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner the captain of the army, Of what man is this young man, Abner? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, I know not.
that he should be made like his brethren in all manner, that he might be a merciful and faithful priest in the sight of God, to make atonement for the people.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, or what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be a son in the law of the king?
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they turned back and made themselves odious more than their fathers, and after other gods to serve them, and to worship them: they did not depart from their own doings, nor from their own imagination.
And Jehovah appeared unto Samuel one day before Saul came, saying,
And they said unto them, I and my people were with the children of Ammon; I called you, and ye delivered me not from their hand.
and they possessed all the border of the Amorites from the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, and unto the Jordan.
And it came to pass after this, that David was sorry for his raiment.
And if ye be without instruction, of which all have become partakers of, then ye are to be circumcised, and not sons.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that saith, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, and we will slay them.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak kindly to her, to bring her again, with his servant with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house; and when the maiden of the maiden saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh, and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
And he said unto them, The Lord is a witness against you, and a witness his holy day, that ye have not found anything in my hand. And they said, A witness.
and I would go out after it, and smite it, and deliver the sheep out of his mouth; and if it rose up against me, I would take it by the beard, and smite it, and slay it.
and had made the women, and all that were therein, small and great, prisoners: they slew none of them, but took them away.
And Saul came to the city of the Amalekites, and set an ambush in the valley.
Take not thy servant to be a man of Belial: For my words have come forth from my affliction, and my travail.
And Shammah the son said, With the edge of an ass of an ass a heap, two heaps, and I have slain a thousand a thousand.
So the people sent unto Shiloh, that they might bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Samuel saw Saul no more till the day of his death: for Samuel mourned over Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And I will have mercy on their iniquity, and I will not remember their sins.
And they went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
According as it is righteous for me to think of you all, because of my being in the heart, both in my bonds, and in my defence, and concerning the good tidings, all of you are fellow-partakers with me of grace.
Again he shall pass a certain day, and it shall be said unto David, This day, after a time it was said, To-day, if thou shalt hear his voice, thou mayest not harden your heart.
For we that believe are come into that place, even as he hath said: As I sware in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest: though the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
And they shall say, Peace be with thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt take from them.
The bow of the mighty are broken, And they that stumble are girded with strength.
And they asked him, and say unto him, Speak now, that thou speakest, that it is a matter of corn. But he answered, Yesterday, not to speak in the same manner of corn by the same letter. And they took him, and slew him in the same side of the Jordan. And there fell down at that time two and forty thousand.
And it came to pass, when the people of Beth Shemesh were reaping in the valley, when they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, they rejoiced to see it.
And Saul said, God do so and so to me, and add yet more: for thou shalt die, O Jonathan.
For if I be able to attain unto the resurrection of the dead,
And for patience he obtained the promise.
And it came to pass in the morning, that the man arose, and opened the door, that he had begun the beginning; and, behold, his concubine lay before the door with her hands upon the door.
And he took a young man of the men of Succoth, and asked him, and he wrote unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, seventy and seven.
that the violence of the seventy men of Ammon might come, and their blood shall be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, who helped him in the blood of his brethren.
Moreover, if the Levites were in charge of the priesthood, for the people had the law given unto them in the midst of them, and the second priest stood in the order of Malchijah, and not be called after the order of Aaron.
For if these things were possible, there would not be an end of these things: for the righteous would have been cleansed, and they would have sinned no more.
But in those sacrifices there is a continual remembrance in them.
And the people came in unto the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Why hath Jehovah smitten us this day before the Philistines? we took unto us from Shiloh the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and it came into our midst, and he saved us out of the hand of our enemies.
And Adam said, When thy words are come to pass, what shall be the manner of the child and his doing?
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken also to the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee, and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, If thou wilt keep me, I will not eat thy bread: if thou wilt prepare a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah: for man knew not that he was Jehovah's angel.
And Araunah spoke again, and said, Behold, men are come down by the midst of the earth, and another company is come by the plain of Chittim.
And she said, I beseech thee, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord: I am the woman that stood before thee, praying unto Jehovah.
And Saul went on on the side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the mountain; and David hasted to flee from Saul; and Saul and his men were with David, and they took them.
And it is not possible to please him: for it is necessary for him that cometh to God to believe that God is, and that he is a doer of all them that seek him.
And she laid him down upon her knees, and called for a man, and shaved the seven hair of his head, and beat him, and his power departed from him.
And David went, and his men, to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and drew away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter; and David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
This is the oblation of the present time; when the offering which is given are not able to make the heart of the worshipper clean,
And faith is of things waiting for a confidence, of things which are not seen,
And when the Syrians came to the Jordan, he passed over it with the three hundred men that were with him; and they were so weary that they could not pursue after them that fled.
For he hath looked for a city that hath foundations; He hath built himself, and made God.
But the angel of Jehovah did not appear unto man, and to his wife; and they knew that he was an angel of the Lord.
And all the men of Shechem were gathered together, and all the families of the city of Millo; and they went and made Abimelech king by the oak that stood in Shechem.
They shall go out into the field, and waste the vineyards, and tread down the grapes; and they shall sing and dance, and go into the temple of their god; and in their feasts and in their feasts they curse Abimelech.
Out of Ephraim, whose root was in Amalek; And after thee was Benjamin among thy people; Out of Machir came down princes, and out of Zebulun the staff of the prince.
The Lord killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head: for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
and the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep, our Lord Jesus Christ, in the blood of the everlasting covenant,
But ye have forgotten the exhortation that speaketh with you as with children, my son, be not grieved by the Lord, nor be weary, being reproved by him;
And Saul said, I will give her to him, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law a second time.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them. So Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went up against the Philistines; and they called that place Bethesda.
For I will show mercy to their iniquities, and I will remember their iniquity no more.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew of them thirty men, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of his garments unto them that told the riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and treated her all the night until the morning, and let her go, when the morning arose.
Whose end is destruction, Whose god is the belly; And whose glory is in their shame, Who think of earthly things.
The wise among her women answereth; Yea, she returneth unto herself.
And what shall I say more? For the time would fail me, and I should say unto thee, I pray thee, on the day that I should say unto thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, the days of David, the son of Barachel, the son of Shimea, the son of Barachel, the son of Barachel, and of the prophets.
These all died in the faith, and not having received the promises, but seeing them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth.
And there was terror in the camp, and in the field, and in all the host of the armed men; even the bands of the Chaldeans trembled; and the earth trembled, and it became very great.
And Saul knew that Jehovah was with David; and he loved him by all Israel.
And the three sons of Jesse went after Saul to the battle: and the name of his three sons that went to battle was Eliab the first-born, and next to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And when they were in the house of Micah, they perceived the voice of the young man, the Levite; and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what doest thou in this? and what hast thou here?
And he stripped off his clothes, and prophesied before Samuel, and lay naked all that day and all night; therefore said they, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For I know of this very thing, that he by whom the good work was begun in you, shall accomplish it until the day of Jesus Christ:
And Saul feared the presence of David yet; and Saul was an enemy with David all the days.
And it came to pass after Abimelech, that there was a defence for Israel, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar: and he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
And Saul's servants spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it to thee a light to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, and despised?
For every high priest that is separated from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both things and sacrifice for sin.
And the men did so, and took two kine, and bound them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And Micah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest; and I will give thee ten pieces of silver by the year, and a suit of raiment, and thy provision. So the Levites went in.
And she answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy request that thou hast asked him.
As they have done from the beginning, from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt unto this day, and turned away from me, and worship other gods, so they do so to you.
Now therefore arise early in the morning, thou and the servants of thy lord that came with thee: when thou risest up early in the morning, then thou shalt leave.
Go now, I pray thee, and know, and know, and see, and see his place where his habitation is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very treacherously.
And when the children of Israel saw that they were in trouble ( for the people were grieved), they hid themselves in the rocks, in the thick places, and in the rocks, and in the tombs, and in holes.
And it came to pass, when the ark of Jehovah's covenant came unto the camp, that all Israel shouted, and the earth was moved.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And her father said, I thought that thou hated her, and I gave her to thy companion: is not her younger sister more fair than she? take her therefore.
And Saul and all the people that were with him were called together, and they came to the battle; and, behold, every man's sword was against his neighbour, a very great confusion.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together for war, and they came together to Shechem in the land of Judah, and took up their place between choh and Azekah, at Riblah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee, because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have thought what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And they went up to eat and drink at Shiloh; and the priest sat upon his seat by the posts of the house of Jehovah.
And when Joshua had let the people go, every man went to his inheritance to possess the land.
And she bare a son, and called his name Shammah. And the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And the things which thou hast learned, have received, and have heard, and have seen in me: do these things, and the God of peace be with you.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the garment wherewith he was clothed, and gave it to David, and the rest of his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
And Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that place, lest any one fall after the same example of transgression.
And after a time he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the dead bodies of the lion: and, behold, there was a swarm of bees and honey in the carcases of the lion.
And the wife of Jonathan was his companion, and his friend's friend.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
He raiseth up the poor from the dust; He lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, To cause them to sit with the nobles, And to cause them to inherit a glorious place; For the pillars of the earth belong to Jehovah, And hath set the inhabitants of the world upon them.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, the uncle of Saul.
Let thy meekness be known of all men, The Lord nigh.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they spoil the storehouses.
Swear now unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and destroy my name from my father's house.
And the ambush was there with her in an inner chamber, and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samling the son: and he brake his feet as a moth's beam, and his power was not known.
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a snare unto him, and the hand of the Philistines against him. And Saul said unto David, For a second time thou shalt be my son-in-law to this day.
And she said, I will surely go with thee: nevertheless, the way that thou takest shall not be for thy honour: for the Lord will sell to the hand of Sisera into a woman's hand. And she arose, and went with an ensign to Kedesh.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other Phanuel; and Penuel had no children.
And they came to the land of the Kohathites, when Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come and let us return; lest my father give up the asses, and be careful for us.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me: the Lord judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And they arose, and came to the house of God, that is, to Shiloh; and they consulted God, and said, Who shall be in our army the first to go to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said unto them, Let Judah be your leader.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel: we will pass over unto Gibeah.
And Eliab, his firstborn, heard the words of his mouth, and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou forsaken the flock in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the imagination of thy heart, and thou art come down to see the battle.
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And the messenger of Jehovah said unto Adam, Of all that I said unto the woman, Let her take heed.
And he said unto them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointing is witness this day, that ye have not found it in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will surely be with thee; and thou shalt smite Midian as one man.
having confidence in this very thing, that he that built you a good work shall accomplish it unto Jesus Christ's day.
And David's young men came, and spake unto the Carmelite according to all these words in the name of David, and ceased.
And he said, They were my brethren, the children of my mother: Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And David came to the two hundred men that were too weary to go after David; and they had left them in the valley, and went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and David came near with the people, and asked them how they were doing.
And when she was old, she heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that were assembled at the door of the tent of meeting.
And his mother made him a little coat, and brought it unto him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the sacrifice of the sacrifice.
And Jehovah came, and stood in his stead, and called to Samuel, and to Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant would hear.
but we have dry grass and bread for our asses, and bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us: we have no need of anything.
And Saul was wroth with Jonathan, and said unto him, Thou son of a woman that is mad of a man, do I not know that thou lovest the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of thy mother?
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan said unto him, With the edge of the staff that is in my hand I have tasted a little honey; behold, I must die.
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withheld thee from coming to shed blood, and from vengeance with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord be as the wife of Nabal.
And there went out a man out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath, whose name was Goliath, whose height was six cubits, and a span.
Neither by the oath of an oath made it void.
And he divided the three hundred men three, and put trumpets into the hand of all them, and empty cups, and lamps within the vessels.
If it go through the land of Israel to Beth Shemesh, then this great evil is his work: but if not, then we may know that the evil is not his doing, but the work.
And they took the daughters of these nations, and gave their daughters to their sons, and became servants unto their gods.
And the people took the provision in their hand, and their trumpets, and every man of Israel he sent away, every man to his tents; and upon the three hundred men he held, and the camp of Midian was by him in the lowest part of the valley.
So God gave to him another heart, and all these things came to pass that day.
And it was hard for the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw that there was a man that was a mighty man, or a man of valor, he brought him into his service.
that by two tables did we pray, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong comfort, who have fled for a place to lay hold on the hope set before us;
that this shall be no occasion to thee, nor a trespass of heart for my lord, that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself: and when Jehovah shall deal with my lord, remember thy handmaid.
And all the wicked and the wicked men among the men that went with David, answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have gotten; but every man shall take his wife and his sons, and take them, and go.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said, and drove out the three sons of Anak out of there.
And it came to pass that night, that the Lord said unto him, Arise, go down now against their people, for I have delivered them into thy hands.
And thirty years old he gave to his sons, and thirty daughters without two years; and he judged Israel for seven years.
And the men of Israel were called together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
And as they were going up to the city, they saw young women going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
to whom also Abraham divided a tenth of all things for the first place, that his name was written, The king of righteousness, and also the king of Salem, which is the king of peace.
Concerning whom we have much discourse, and of hard things to say, since ye have become dull of hearing,
While it is said, To day shalt thou hear his voice, And harden not your heart as in the provocation.
And every high priest is given authority to take to God the things that are given and to make offerings; that he should be like unto them, to have a gift.
and have not hearkened unto their judges, but have played the harlot after other gods, and bow themselves unto them; they have turned aside quickly out of the way which their fathers walked to keep the commandments of Jehovah, which they have not done.
For ye have patience, that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
And David took of her hand from her hand, which she had brought him. And he said unto her, Go up to thy house: behold, I have heard thy voice, and hast granted thy request.
And being made perfect, he became the God of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
Why do thou harden thy heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? and when he had wrought great among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no meat the second day; for he was grieved for David; for his father had done him ashamed.
according to my hope and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, and in all liberty, as always, even Christ also shall be exalted in my body, whether through life or through death,
And they took the food of the people in their hand, and their trumpets; and all the men of Israel he sent away, every man to his tent, but he spared the three hundred men: and the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
And it fell on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bore his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines, that is on the other side. But he did not tell his father.
And Kain said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, I go; and if thou wilt not go with me, I go not.
And Shammah went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
and now, what is there under thy hand? five loaves give into my hand, or what is found.
And David pursued, and he and four hundred men: for two hundred men were left behind, and they could not go over the brook.
And they returned unto their brethren in Seraiah, and in the land of Canaan, and asked them what they had done.
Jehovah therefore will be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and do me justice in my hand.
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh; for they looked into the ark of Jehovah; and he smote with the people seventy men, and the people mourned, because Jehovah smote among the people a great smiting.
And Saul's servants said these things unto David. And David said, Is it not unto thee a small thing to be the king's wife, seeing that I am a poor man, of no great name?
So then, my beloved, as thou hast done all the things which I say, not only when I am present, but now much more, when I am not with you, give yourselves to work with fear in your hearts.
Behold, ye children of Israel, give hither counsel and counsel.
And Jehovah sent sudden fear upon Benjamin before Israel; and that day the children of Israel slew five hundred and five thousand, one hundred men of Benjamin, every one that drew a sword.
And the Lord discomfited Sisera, and all the chariots, and all the host, with the edge of the sword before Zoan; and Sisera went down from the chariot, and fled on foot.
And truly, the good tidings came unto us, as it did unto them: but the hearing of the word did not good, because they believed not in faith with the hearers.
And the land rested forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And when they that were left of Benjamin saw this, they fled into the wilderness, and made for the rock that is called of Rimmon; and as they were feeble, they killed five thousand men; and as they went further, they pursued after them, and slew two thousand.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of the assembly will I sing thy praise.
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah be pleased to slay us, he would not have received a burnt offering and a sacrifice at our hand; and he would not shew us all these things, nor tell us these things as these at this time.
Now faith is unstable, and faith is not seen.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail for his sake: thy servant will go and fight with the Philistines.
For God is my witness, how I love you all in the love of Christ Jesus.
And the land rested forty years: and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And Manasseh dwelt not Beth-shean, and her towns, and Taanach, and her towns, and the inhabitants of Dor, and the inhabitants thereof, and the inhabitants thereof, and the inhabitants thereof, and the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the inhabitants of Megiddo.
And Samuel rose, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
Now therefore go ye, and proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return, and depart early from mount Gilead: and there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
And Hananiah prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah: my horn is exalted in Jehovah: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And Samuel assembled the people unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
For I thy servant have killed the lion and a bear; and this uncircumcised of the Philistines shall be as one of them: I will go now, and take away the reproach of the people: for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, who hath dared to curse the army of the living God?
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and gave it to thy neighbour that is better than thou.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, and arise; and he awoke from his sleep, and said, I will go out as at once; but he knew not that Jehovah had left him.
And the sons of Israel were threescore and seven; and the sons of Jehovah were threescore and seven; for he had many wives.
And when he had set the lamps upon fire, he let them go into the midst of the land of the Philistines, and burned up the desolation, and the standing corn, and the oil.
And David was the youngest; and the three chief men were with the army of Saul.
seeing that we give them our daughters as wives? for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
and the blade went in after the blade, and the fat closed upon the sickle; for he drew not the sword out of his belly, and it came out between the feet.
And David received of her hand the things which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up to thy house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy soul.
The river of the river overflowed them, The river of old, the river of old; Thou hast trodden down strength, O my soul.
And Saul and the men of Israel came together, and rose up, and set themselves in the valley of Elah, and encamped against the Philistines.
And Benjamin returned at that time, and gave unto them the women whom they had kept alive of the women of Jabeshgilead; and they found none of them.
And the ambush hasted, and ran at Gibeah; and the ambush spread out, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
For this cause I hope to send, when I shall see through the things concerning me;
He that despiseth the law of Moses dieth without mercy on the word of two or three witnesses.
And when Abiathar the son of Chenaanah had fled to David at Keilah, he went down with an ephod in his hand.
And they went both unto the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they have hid themselves.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took possession of the hill-country: for he possessed not the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And it came to pass, when he came to a troop, that the Philistines came out, and gathered him with a loud voice; and the spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords of his hands were like grass burned with fire, and the bands fell off his hands.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, then ye will provoke the mouth of Jehovah, and the hand of Jehovah shall be against you, and against your fathers.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them dwelt in Geba Geba; but the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
And when David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
And the children of Israel rose in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy; And hold him in remembrance.
And the stork gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye are Gilead; ye are escaped of Ephraim in the midst of Ephraim, in the midst of Manasseh.
And there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
And his father went down to the woman; and Jehiel the son made a feast; for so did the young men.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of thy kindred, or of all my people, that thou hast gone for thy wife unto the Philistines, who are uncircumcised? But the son said unto his father, Get her for me, for she is pleasant unto me.
Be not ye cast away, but your confidence, which hath great reward,
And David said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath heard tidings unto thy servant that it is Saul's purpose to go to Keilah, and to destroy the city for me.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah.
And he said, Behold, I am come to do thy will. He taketh away the first in order to establish the second.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and made it by Dagon.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing to my lord Jehovah's anointed, to stretch out my hand against him, for he is Jehovah's anointed.
Then rose up from Gilgal, and the rest of the people went up after Saul against the men of war, and they came from Gilgal to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin; and Saul took the number of the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
not concerned, but in all things with prayer, and in all praising God.
Neither by the blood of the goats, nor of the calves, but of his own blood, entered into the most holy place, having obtained eternal redemption.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, who strengthened against them Eglon; because they did evil in his sight.
The men that did not die were smitten with the fan, So that the cry of the city was ascended up to heaven.
And they turned and went, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the chariot before them.
And there was no deliverer; for it was far from Sidon; and they had nothing to do with man; and it was in the valley that is by Beth-Rehob; and they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy not him: for who can stretch out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
and there shall be nothing that cometh out of the vine for her bread; and she shall not drink wine or strong drink, or any thing that is unclean; and she shall be careful to do all that I have commanded her.
And the lords of the Philistines went with their troops, and with their thousands; but David and his men were in the rear with them.
and the best of thy fields, and the best of thy vineyards, and the best of thy olive trees, and give them to his servants.
And the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass, and put him in the house of bondage.
And the wife of Jonathan the wife wept before him, and said, Thou hast hated me, and hast not loved me: thou hast told the children of my people a riddle, and hast not told me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told my father or my mother, why should I tell thee?
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword, and died with him.
And they said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, speak quickly; and he said, Thou shalt not speak to it in the right way; and they took him, and slew him in the plains of Jordan: and forty thousand of the children of Ephraim were slain.
But a certain feared seeketh for judgment, and of fire, which shall devour the adversaries.
And after the veil, the tabernacle, which is called the Most Holy Place, is the tabernacle.
And David sent forth spies, and knew that Saul had come in very deed.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, There came a man of God unto me, and his countenance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; and I asked him not from where he came, and told me his name.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Joab, and his brethren, come to Shechem; and, behold, they shut up the city against thee.
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity that this man hath something to offer.
And David fled from the ascent of Ramah, and came to Jonathan, and said, What have I done? what is my transgression and my sin against thy father that he is seeking to take my life?
If only this people were in my commandment, then would I take away Abimelech, and said, Increase thy army, and come forth.
And he called unto him Zebulun and Nimrod, and went up with ten thousand men of war, having a couple of course.
And he said, Where hast ye made a way to day? And David said, Concerning the south of Judah, and against the south of the sons of Jerahmeel, and against the land of the Kenites.
And they said unto them, I and my people were in great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye did not deliver me out of their hand.
for he was yet in the loins of the father, when Melchizedek saw him.
And the Philistines took hold of him, and pulled out his eyes, and bound him bound in chains unto Gaza, and bound him in the stocks.
And again he saith, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I am here, and the children which God hath given me.
And the Levites took down the ark of God, and the ark that was at the side of it, wherein were the vessels of gold, and put them upon the great stone; and the men also of Beth Shemesh offered burnt offerings, and offered sacrifices that day to Jehovah.
And when Saul saw that Jehovah was with David, and Michal his daughter loved him,
And David recovered all that Amalek had taken; and David took again his two wives.
And he thirsted exceedingly, and called unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great salvation: and now I die with thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
And Samuel did as Jehovah had said; and he came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the city came trembling to meet him, and said, Have ye come in peace?
Woe unto us, who shall deliver us out of the hand of these great gods? these the gods that smite the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Now therefore deliver up the men that are in Gibeah, who are in Gibeah, that we may kill them, and put away evil from Israel. But Benjamin would not hear the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And David was the youngest; and the three elder had followed Saul.
And thou, Jehovah, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands:
And Ehud stretched forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly.
And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, Upon this condition will I make a covenant with you, that I may put out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
in these last days he hath spoken unto us by a Son, whom he hath appointed to inherit all things through whom also he made the world,
When thou art departed from me to day, thou shalt find two men by the sepulchre of Rachel, in the border of Benjamin, at Zilpah; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, behold, thy father hath left the eyes of the asses, and make ready for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
so also Christ did not glorify himself to be made a high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.
And Jonathan sent for David, and told him all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, who kept him by his side as in the past.
Of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, And his ministers a flame of fire!
And she fastened it with the girdle, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samling the son: and he awaked out of his sleep, and rent the bases of the wood, and the house.
And Shammah the son said unto them, If ye do so, I will avenge myself upon you, and I will cease.
And she seduced him day after day with her words, and grieved him; and his soul fainted in the point of death.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and they served the Baalim.
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with thee, and I will make a covenant with thee, and I will make it a reproach to all Israel.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; and the children of Israel gave place to Benjamin: for they trusted in the ambush which they set against Gibeah.
And Joshua let the people go away; and the children of Israel went, every man to his inheritance, to take the land for themselves.
But David dwelt in the wilderness in the wilderness; and he tarried in a mountain of Ziph, in a pleasant hill; and Saul sought him always; but Jehovah gave him not into his hand.
And the hand of Jehovah was upon the people of Ashdod, and he smote them through all the land of Ashdod.
And Jacob blessed one of the sons of Joseph, and bowed upon the top of his rod, as he died.
And Saul went on this side of the mount, and David and his men on that side of the mount; and David made haste to depart from Saul; and Saul and his men sought to compass David, and to his men.
And he answered and said, Go in peace, and the God of Israel shall give thy prayer which thou hast asked of him.
And it came to pass on the morrow that the people rose early, and they built an altar there, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings.
For if the blood of the goats and the bullocks, and the ashes of the heifer sprinkle the unclean, sanctify the flesh of the flesh;
whose voice shook the earth, and now he hath said, Yet I will not shake the earth alone, but the heavens.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; for we have sworn, the two of us, an oath in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. Then he arose, and left, and Jonathan went into the city.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Surely this nation hath broken my covenant, which I had made with their fathers, and despised to hear my voice.
The Sidonians also, and Amalek, and Maon oppressed thee; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
The shaft of his spear was as long as a weaver's beam, and his head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one went before him with his shield.
And it was told unto the giant, saying, Behold, Jonathan is come hither. And they besieged, and lay wait for him all night at the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning light we will kill him.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is no God besides thee; there is no Rock like our God.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, which pertained unto Joash the Hushathite: and his son smote the wheat with the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Art the young men done? And he said, Yet is left the youngest; and, behold, he delighteth himself among the flocks. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and take him; for we turn not round till he cometh in hither.
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I shall search my father, and tomorrow the third time, and behold, good toward David, and I will not send unto thee, and have uncovered thine ear.
that thou hast put all things under his feet: for he hath made him ruler over all things; he hath not put anything out of his power, though we see not all things under him.
And the messenger answered, and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines; and there is a great slaughter among the people; and thy two sons, the chief singer, and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that he knew the way of her father; and she alighted from her ass. And Caleb said unto her, What is it?
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had fought against the south and in Ziklag, and had overcome in Ziklag, and put it on fire;
Now all the people of the land went into the forest, for honey was upon the face of the ground.
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah would kill our death, he would not have taken our burnt offering and our sacrifice, nor commanded us these things concerning the child.
And now, behold, thy king is here, whom thou hast chosen and desired: behold, Jehovah hath given thee a king.
They answered and said unto them, He is, behold, he is before you, make haste now: for he came to day into the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people unto day in the high place.
And the day after the people went out into the field, and it was told Abimelech.
And he sent unto them that were in Bethel, and to those that were in Ramah of the south, to those that were in Jattir,
As saith the parable of the elders, From the wicked goeth forth wickedness, and my hand is not upon thee.
Now I want you to know, brethren, that I have come in place for the good tidings of the gospel,
but the latter end of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defence of the gospel.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and became servants unto the Baalim.
And the princes of the Philistines brought up unto her seven green things that have not been dried up, and she bindeth him with them.
And he shall appoint them over to him captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and he shall appoint some to plow his ground, and to gather his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant spared his father's sheep, and there came a lion, or a bear, and took a ram out of the midst of the flock.
in which shall we be sanctified by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, ye shall not be visited for this thing.
Are they not all serving spirits? are they not sent out for the sake of them that shall inherit salvation?
And as Samuel was offering the burnt-offerings, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: and Jehovah thundered with a great thunder that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And the five lords of the Philistines saw, and returned to Ekron the same day.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hear thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
and the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, who dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal unto Hamath.
And they called the name of the city Dan after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: but the name of the city was called Laish.
And Saul arose, and went down into the wilderness of Ziph, and with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Syrian, an eloquent man, a mighty man, a mighty man, and prudent in speech, and excellent, and Jehovah is with him.
By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testified of his gifts; and by him he died yet.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men, in the presence of the rocks of the wild goats.
God, who in the dry times and in divers things spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
And they sent messengers to the city of Saul; and they told the people, and all the people wept.
And he took the host, and divided them into three companies; and he set an ambush in the field; and he saw the people coming out of the city; and he rose up against them, and slew them.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fall because of him; thy servant goeth, and fought against the Philistines.
Take heed to your elders, and submit yourselves unto them; for they keep the souls of your souls, as they that shall give an account, that they may do this with joy, and not with sighing: for this thing is unprofitable for you.
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second was Abijah; and they were judges in Beersheba.
And David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in the forest.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me thy son David, who is with the sheep.
And she said unto him, How can thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest out to me with rods? And the Philistines put a curse upon David by all his gods.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel, that both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
and the Sidonians, and the Amalekite, and the Ashdodites, and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
Thou shalt not take away thy lovingkindness from my house for ever, when Jehovah will have rooted out the enemies of David, every one of them out of the earth, that he may take Jonathan from his house, and Jehovah will require it over the hand of David's enemies.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves out of the cities of Gibeah to go out for war against the children of Israel.
But six hundred turn, and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon; and they abode in the rock of Rimmon four months.
And he made a war, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of the destroyer.
And Saul gathered all the people together for war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
Arise now, thou and thy people, and keep watch in the field;
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him bread, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Gittite.
For the chief of the book was not pleasing unto thee.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us for certain that the asses were found: but of the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken, he told him not.
And Deborah said, Arise, for this day hath the Lord given to Sisera into thy hand; hath not Jehovah gone out before thee? And she went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
Then went up all the children of Israel, and all the people, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until evening, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
that she may not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, or drink wine, or strong drink, or eat any unclean thing; for she shall keep all that I have commanded.
And the king of war rose up early, and all the people that were with him, and encamped by the well of the valley; and the camp of Midian was on the south side of him, on the top of Moreh.
As Jehovah liveth, who is the Savior of Israel, if Jonathan my son shall surely die, he shall surely die, and none of the people saith unto him.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I know for certain that my father determined evil to come upon thee, would I not tell thee?
And Phinehas his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child, and near the time of her womb; and when she had heard that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, her pangs came upon her suddenly, and she gave birth.
And Saul said, Bring hither unto me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings; and he offered up the burnt-offering.
How shall we escape if we fail to be great to salvation? which having begun to be declared by the Lord, was confirmed unto us by those who heard him.
that my bonds may be manifested in Christ in the whole hall, and in the other places.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, as ye go to Shur, which is before Egypt.
Then was he called David, and said unto him, Surely as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been righteous, and thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the camp, is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords do not favor thee.
For when all the commandment was spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood, and the goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book, and all the people.
Now therefore consider how great this man was, to whom even Abraham the father gave a tenth of the spoil.
who was the glory of his glory, and of the divine image of his stature, and of the word of his power, when he had by himself purified our sins, and sat down on the right hand of the king on high;
His mother looked out a window, and crieth; and she spake out of the chamber, saying, Why is his chariot so long in return? why are the feet of his horses so slow?
And David returned from smiting the Philistines; and Abner took him, and brought him before Saul, and the head of the Philistines in his hand.
For though some preach Christ out of envy, and doth pray, others do it out of a good heart;
And he called to the young man his armor, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A women put him to death: and his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And Jacob died, and was buried in Zebulun.
As soon as he was dead, the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after Baal, and worshiped Baal.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses had said, and destroyed the three sons of Anak.
and not only while I live, that ye do with me the kindness of Jehovah, and I die not.
Let the brotherly love continue.
And the men of Israel turned about, and the men of Benjamin were afraid: for they saw that the evil had come upon them.
And he called, and said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
Wherefore I was angry with that generation, and said, They are always walking in their heart; but they know not my ways.
And it came to pass at that time, that it fell down in his place, and his eyes were dim, and he could not see.
And the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, saying,
There was a man from Ramah, a field of Zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of Ephraim.
And he shall take thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, and the best of them, and give them to his servants.
Take heed therefore, and drink not wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing;
Now, without faith, it is impossible to please him; for he that cometh near God, let him believe that he is, and is a reward to them that seek him.
Behold, I say a witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox I have taken, whose ass have I taken? Whom have I robbed? Who have I afflicted? Of whose hand have I taken a ransom to make me blind? I will restore it unto thee.
And Shammah went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Jonathan called after the young man, saying, Go quickly, stand not. And Jonathan's youth gathered the arrows, and came to his lord.
And they said, If thou wilt send the ark of the God of Israel away, thou shalt not send it away empty; but thou shalt bring it back with a trespass offering, and thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto thee why his hand is not turned aside from thee.
And David said to the king, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant is to do. And David said unto David, Wherefore will I make thee my head for ever?
And of the sons of his sons, the children of Manasseh, who were born unto him, were threescore and seventy; and he had many wives.
And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt say, I will tread thy flesh with the thorns, and the briers, and the briers; and I will tread thy flesh in the wilderness.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
For yet a very little while, and he that cometh shall come, and shall not delay.
And it came to pass, when the ark of Jehovah's covenant came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth was made again.
And when they came to the land of the Kohathites, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father take care of the asses, and take care for us.
And it came to pass the day that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bore his weapons, Come, and we pass over to the place of the Philistines, which on the other side of this; and he hath not told his father.
I will place the wool of wool upon the threshing-floor: if there be dew upon the fleece of the fleece, and all the earth is dry, I will know that thou shalt deliver Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
And it was told David, and said, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they have spoiled the threshing-floor.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judah, how much more shall we go to Keilah against the Philistines?
But I thought it necessary to send unto you, my brother, and my fellow-workman, and a soldier, and thy messenger, and minister unto my poor.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, and said, The son of Shimea the son of the Maachathite, because he took his wife, and delivered her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of the womb, that his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he was as a stone.
who chose to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to have no pleasure in sin;
For when God made a vow unto Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself:
How much more, if the people had eaten willingly in the day of the spoil of their enemies which they found; for had there not been a great slaughter among the Philistines?
And where the atonement is, there is no sin offering.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and they offered sacrifices of peace before Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced there.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, neither deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
Yea, he putteth his life in his hand, and smote the Philistines; and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou hast seen, and hast rejoiced. Why hast thou sinned against innocent blood, to put David to death?
And Saul also and his men went to seek him; and they told David, and he came down into a rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer; go up before me into the high place, and ye shall eat with me this day, and I will send thee away in the morning, and all that is in thy heart I will tell thee.
And three of the Philistines came out of the Philistines to make a raid; and one troop went by the way to Ophrah, and went into the land of embracing.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor: yet what I shall choose I do not know.
Say no more words of pride, Let not the words of the rash proceed out of thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him is judgment.
Paul and Timothy, the ministers of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the overseers and ministers,
And to him that sweareth he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?
And Saul said unto Jehovah, God of Israel, Give thee the sum. And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people went out.
And they killed a calf, and offered the child to Heli.
And blessed be thy judgment, and blessed be thou that hath prevented me this day from blood, and from my own hand.
And Saul said, Am I not a Benjaminite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my house, the least of all the families of the children of Benjamin, why do ye speak unto me?
For every high priest that is separated from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both things and sacrifices for sin;
For being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance by inheritance than they are.
And Saul took a spear to smite him. And Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to slay David.
But the children of Asher dwelt among the Canaanite, the people of the land, and drove them out.
in the measure of my strong hope, and believing that in nothing will I be put to shame, but not in fear, as at all times; so shall Christ glory in my body, by life, or by death.
of the doctrine of baptizing, and the laying of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the stronghold in En Gedi.
And the land rested forty years: and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And one of the place answered, Who is their father? And it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Behold, let ye not refuse him that saith: for if they were not able to escape, who would not receive him that was on the earth, much less we that turn away from him that is from heaven,
For the law appointed men as high priests, which have fainted; but the word of the promise, according to the law, shall appoint a Son, who is made perfect for ever.
And they forsook Jehovah the God of their fathers, who brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed themselves to them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said unto Abimelech the priest, The king commanded me, saying, The king commanded me, saying, No one shall know anything of this matter on which I send thee, and with which I have charged thee and the servants. And I have set my servants in a certain place.
For a man's will be in the place where there is death; for it is not in the hand of him that made it alive.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor, and the head of his tents, and he dwelt in the air.
Where the chariots were broken together, and the force of the enemy was choked, let the righteousness of Jehovah be declared, and his favour toward the valiant men of Israel: then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates, and obtained the kingdom.
And Deborah, the son of Abinadab, was at that same day, saying,
and blessed thy judgment, and blessed thee in that thou hast restrained me this day from coming in with blood, and to hold my hand unto myself.
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to the Lord unto Jehovah? And, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh Gilead unto the assembly.
And they said unto him, Ask now the counsel of God, that we may know whether we go.
that thou hast told me this day, that thou hast dealt well with me, how Jehovah hath delivered me into thy hand, and thou hast not killed me.
Why do thou harden thy heart as the Egyptians, and Pharaoh hardened their heart? is it not as when he dealt with them, and they sent them away, and they left?
that he might set free all them that were in fear of death through all their life.
And the five men that went to search out of the country of Laish, said unto their brethren, Know ye, that in these houses there is an ephod, and a temple, and a molten image, and a molten image? Now now ye see what to do.
but call to mind the former days in which ye have been glorified, ye have endured much of sorrows;
And he took his staff in his hand, and took him five of the smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's sack, which he had, even in a bag; and his mouth was in his hand; and he drew near to the Philistines.
and the men that died not were smitten with the magicians; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And Jonathan said unto David, Whatever thy heart is, I will do for thee.
that every tongue may confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
For consider well him that endured so many things from sinners, that ye faint not, and faint in your heart.
As I have sworn in my wrath, If they enter into my rest.
But as many as are perfect, let us think this: and if any thing ye think otherwise, God also will reveal unto you.
For Israel had set themselves in array, and the Philistines stood up against them.
And when they arose to go away, his father-in-law, the father's father, said unto him, Behold, the evening cometh upon, and thou shalt not go night: behold, the day is almost gone. Take thy rest, and let thy heart be merry, and to-morrow thou shalt go up to thy house.
And the uncle of Saul said unto him, Tell me now what Samuel said unto thee.
But now he hath attained to a more excellent service, even as much as he is, even as much as he is, even as much as a good covenant.
And the woman came in, and said unto her husband, Behold, a man came unto me, and his form was as the likeness of a god; and I did not ask him where he came from, and he gave me not his name.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the temple that was with it, in which the vessels of gold, and set on the great stone; and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrifices on that day unto Jehovah.
And fear was the appearance that Moses said, I am afraid and trembling.
But the righteous shall live by his faith; And if he return, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and they served the Baalim, and the god of Syria, and the god of Syria, and the god of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon and the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and served him not.
And the people, the men of Israel, strengthened themselves, and set up the battle in the place where they set themselves on the first day.
And they called the name of that place to Jehovah; and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said, Why askest thou me? Jehovah hath turned away from thee, and is thine enemy.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he appointed his sons to be judges over Israel.
And Jair died, and was buried in Ibleam.
And it was told Saul, and sent other messengers, and they prophesied; and Saul sent messengers again, and they prophesied.
And all Midian and Amalek, and the children of the east, gathered together, and passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And they went out into their fields, and took the fruit of their vine; and when the grapes were broken, they made a holy feast, and went into the house of their god, and over their food and their drink they cursed Abimelech.
And he said unto his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the anointed of Jehovah, to stretch out my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Saul's servants spake these words to David in private; but David said, Is it small in thy sight to be the son-in-law of the king, as I am a poor man, and despised man?
And they said unto the elders, Art thou not far from me, and cast me out from the house of my father? why come thou unto me now, when thou hast trouble?
and a helmet of brass upon his head; and a band of mail of mail he clothed, and the weight of the coat five thousand shekels of brass;
And he answered and said unto David, I know that thou art accepted as an angel of God: nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And Saul spake against him yet more; and Saul became a king to David forever.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: be not afraid; thou shalt not die.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! let one of the king's servants come over and fetch it.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
And it came to pass, that she was old, old, old; and he heard the time that his sons were doing unto all Israel.
And he said, If I have found grace before thee, give me a sign that thou hast spoken unto me.
But David fled from thence, which was in Ramah, and came and said to Jonathan, What hast I done? what is my iniquity? what is my sin, and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh my life?
But ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore will I save you no more.
And they set up the ark of Jehovah with the golden cart, with the vessels of gold, and the molten images.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised a saviour unto the children of Israel, and he saved them: Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again to my need.
And it came to pass, when they heard their words, that ye might go down with strength against the people: and he went down with his servant, and he went down with his servant unto the camp of the armed men.
And Saul perceived that the voice was David's, and said, Is that thy voice, O David my son? And David said, It is my voice, my lord king.
And she pressed him daily with her words, and besought him, and his soul was troubled to death.
And Saul went down to the house of Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose heart God had touched.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went to his house: but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And when David heard that the dead was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath judged the cause of my reproach at the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil; and Jehovah hath restored the wickedness of Nabal upon his head. And David sent and dealt with Abigail, that he might take her to himself for a wife.
And the princes of Gilead said unto them, We have come unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Jehovah the God of Israel gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel took possession of the whole land of the Amorites, who dwelt in that country.
and Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the son of Shua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, the priest of Jehovah, the priest, had not known that Jonathan was gone.
Yea, we have our fathers, that chastened us, and have judged them: shall we not rather give ourselves to the Father of spirits, and live?
And the children of Israel made a breach in the battle; and Benjamin fell, and slew thirty of the men of Israel, saying, Surely they fall before us as in the first battle.
And they called the name of the city Dan, by the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel; and the name of the city was Laish.
and to those that were in Hormah, and unto them that were in league with them, and to them that were in war;
And the king sent to call Abimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all the house of his father, the priests that were at Nob; and they all came to the king.
by faith, Noah, in order that it was not yet seen, moved with fear, and made a ship for the salvation of his house, by which he condemned the world, and became heirs of the righteousness of righteousness.
For where there is a covenant, there is the death of him that made it.
And David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul in the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
And when he had brought him, behold, they were lying upon all the ground, eating and drinking, and keeping the feast, and the spoil, and the spoil, which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
For they all seek their own profit, not of Jesus Christ.
and to them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David himself and his men went about.
and therefore I have sworn unto the house of Oded: The iniquity of the house of the house is not forgiven, by sacrifice, and by offering, unto the age.
And it shall come to pass, that thou shalt say, Because of this, when Jehovah hath given me up to Zebah and Zalmunna, I will lay thee upon the bed of thorns, and upon the threshing floor, and upon the threshing floor, and upon the threshing floor.
And Saul said, Bring near unto me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly, that the asses were found: but of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
And Abigail went unto the Carmelite; and behold, he had a feast in his house, like the days of the king; and the Carmelite was in his heart, and he told him not a thing, till the light of the morning.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, a hundred and ten years old.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from the place by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died: for he was an old man, and heavy, and he had judged Israel forty years.
And they turned aside thither, and entered into the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and asked of him of peace.
And when the trumpet shall sound in my hand, thou shalt blow the trumpets on every side of the camp.
And Jonathan put his bow and arrows to the child, and said unto him, Take these, and go to the city.
And they said unto him, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, rebuke; and, behold, there is a man's rod, because he could not rebuke him; and they took hold of him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan: and forty thousand fell from Ephraim.
And all Israel were gathered together against the city, as one man, with one mind, and with one accord;
Now these things were commanded, into the first of the tabernacle, the priests, at all times, to do the service;
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him?
and I will go and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and will speak with my father; and see what it is, and tell thee.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, Tomorrow ye shall have deliverance when the sun is hot. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabeshgilead, and they were glad.
Remember ye that were over you, and who gave you the word of God; and seeing the end of their way, let your faith be as theirs.
Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Sochoh, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of a moth, nor of Achzib, nor of Debir, nor of Rehob, nor of Rehob.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a noble and honorable man; and there was not among the children of Israel a master, than he; from his shoulder and upward he appeared above all the people.
Swear now to me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and destroy my name from my father's house.
And David said to him, But what have I done? what hast thou seen in thy servant, while I have been with thee till this day, that I may not go, and lift up arms against them that are now making war upon my lord the king?
Now there was no iron in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, For fear the Hebrews make their swords, and their spears.
And Jonathan again took an oath to David, because he loved him: for David loved him as his very soul.
And the children of the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, and were joined together as one man.
And his sons walked not in his ways; but they turned aside after gain, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.
And the men of Benjamin fell, and all these were valiant men.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find grace in thine eyes. And the woman went on her way, and eateth, and her face was not for it any more.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I did Jehovah send to anoint thee for king over his people Israel; and now, hear the voice of Jehovah's words.
Now at the present time men over whom death hath power taken the tenth: but then it was taken by one of whom it is witnesses that he liveth.
And the children of Benjamin that came that day out of the cities were threescore thousand men armed with the sword, besides the men of Gibeah, seven hundred and fifty men of valor.
And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let me now go through thy land to my place.
And now, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: If Jehovah have moved thee against me, let him accept an oblation; but if the sons of men be cursed before Jehovah, because they have cast me out this day from following the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of the words, which they heard, asked that a word should not be added unto them.
And they went into the house of Micah, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest said unto them, What doest ye?
And she said, The glory of Israel is departed; for the ark of God is taken.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them unto the place of Beth-hoglah.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take a spoil among them until the light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Whatever seemeth good to you. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither to God.
For our God is a consuming fire.
And Saul said unto his servant, Come, let us go, and let us go; and they went into the city of the man of God.
And Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Sodom, and Jazer, and Achzib, and Debir, and Rehob, and Rehob,
And the children of Benjamin went out from Gibeah, and smote the children of Israel that day twenty-two thousand men.
and that he should speak, through Abraham, and over Levi, who received tithes, was made to pay the tithes.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth, and David was more wise than all the servants of Saul; and his name was magnified.
And thou hast shewed this day what good things thou hast done unto me: how Jehovah hath delivered me into thy hand, and thou hast not killed me.
And Moses believed not to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
Therefore as many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as many as the sand by the sea, were begotten by one man, and he was dead as dead.
And all Israel was very sorry, and repented for the slaughter of one tribe out of Israel.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Shammah: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be a son in the law unto the king?
But the first man was not first without blood.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal, and behold, I will go down unto thee, to cause burnt offerings, to sacrifice peace-offerings, seven days thou shalt wait till my coming in unto thee, and I will make known unto thee what thou doest.
And David dwelt with him in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelite.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of the womb, that his wife told him these things; and his heart died within him, and he became a stone.
But Midian and Amalek; and all the people of the east were scattered abroad in the valley, as a swarm of locusts, and their camels as the sand that lieth upon the sea.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle went over beyond Bethaven.
So Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and they set wait upon Shechem in four bands.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the fruit of the land unto Gaza; and they left no increase in Israel, nor sheep, nor ox, or ass.
And the hand of the children of Israel smote them, even harder and more unto Jabin king of Canaan, until they destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal to the prophet, saying,
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
And the child Samuel grew in, and increased in favour with the Lord, and also with men.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being an hundred and ten years old.
And the children of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man that is come up? he hath surely come up to defy Israel: and the king shall give great riches to the man that killeth him, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And Ephraim did not dispossess the Canaanite that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanite dwelt among them in Gezer.
but I trust in Jehovah that I also will soon come.
He answered them, They were my brethren, the children of my mother: As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst saved them, I would not kill you.
therefore said I, Now the Philistines shall come down against me in Gilgal, and I will not yet seek the face of Jehovah. So I took myself, and offered the burnt-offering.
And Jehovah sent to destroy Baal, and Imonai, and Jinam, and Samuel, and took thee out of the hand of them that were fighting against thee, and made thee safe.
to whom also a tenth of all Abraham divided, ( the same is the King of righteousness), and also the king of Salem, which is the King of Peace.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come and let us go forth into the field; and they went out both of them into the field.
And Elijah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O my Lord, the man of God whom thou didst send, let him come in, I pray thee, and direct us what we do to the lad that is born.
And every priest shall stand continually, every day his daily service, and many times as sacrifices, which can not take away sin.
Else, that they should not have ceased to be offered, because they that worship, being purified once and for all, would no longer have any conscience?
For if he had given them rest, then he would not afterward have spoken of another day.
For the man, even though he is a contentious man, preach not, but thought to add affliction to my bonds:
Finally, brethren, what is true, what things are honorable, what things are lawful, what things are pure, what things are good, what things are of good report; if there is any power, and if there is any praise, consider these things.
In those days there was no king in Israel; but every man did what was right in his own eyes.
And Melchizedek was yet in his father's body, when Melchizedek came to him.
And the people and the princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For who, when he hath found his enemy, will let him go well? But Jehovah rewarded thee for this good thing, for what thou hast done unto me this day.
For the prayer of Jehovah came from her heart, and though her lips were moved from her lips, so it was to say that she was overcome with wine.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and took him out of his mouth; and if he turned upon me, I took him by the hair, and smote him, and slew him.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more: and the land rested forty years in the days of Gideon.
And the children of Israel went to Eglon to Eglon, the king of Moab for eighteen years.
And he had the rods of brass on his feet, and a spear between his shoulders.
For the women received their dead raised again; and others were tormented, not receiving salvation, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
And a man of that place answered and said, Who is their father? So it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and gave birth; for her pangs came upon her.
And from that day Saul was jealous of David.
And they said unto him, Be quiet, speak nothing, and come with us, and be our father and priest: is it better for you to be priest to one man's house, or to be priest to a tribe, and to a house in Israel?
And they slew Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all fat, and all men of war, and not a man escaped.
And Shammah the son answered her, If I shall be bound with seven cords, not yet dry, yet I shall be as weak as other men.
And he said, What hath Jehovah said unto you? Keep it not from me: let the punishment of God be upon you, if ye keep from me anything that he spake unto you.
And David recovered all that Amalek had taken; and David took his two wives.
And all the children of Israel took up arms; and the people came together as one man, from Dan to Beersheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
and the peace of God, that above all understanding shall keep your heart and your heart in Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass in the day of the battle, that there was no sword, nor a spear found in the hand of all the host that was with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took a stone, and smote it, and smote the Philistines in his forehead; and the stone descended into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth.
And Abimelech went to smite him, and encamped at Thebez, and took it.
In thy hand God delivered the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with thee? And their spirit was entreated of him, when he spake that word.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, and let my enemy go and escape? And Michal said unto Saul, Let me go, lest I kill thee.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near to one of these places; and we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And Saul returned from following the Philistines, and told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En Gedi.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Jehovah even will require of the enemies of David.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Jehovah liveth, and there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered up Jonathan, that he should not die.
And he went up, and went up by the way of the people that dwelt in tents on the east; and he drew up and wept, and smote the host, when they had no thought of evil.
And the head of Succoth said, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna, now in thy hand, that we give to thy host bread?
And they said, Thou hast not dealt treacherously with us, neither have thou persecuted us: thou hast taken nothing from man.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them: but the lad did not cast his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a child.
and the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
And he said, Behold, I come to do thy will; he taketh away the first that he may establish the second.
And the number of them that fell with their hand to their mouth were three hundred men: and all the people fell upon their knees to drink water.
And Saul said, Stand ye among the people, and say unto them, Bring ye every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and kill them here, and kill them here, and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew there.
And the wall of Jericho fell upon the wall of Jericho seven days.
and said thus, To life, and thou, peace; and thy house, peace; and all that thou hast, peace.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, riding upon camels, and fled.
And now, behold, the king walketh before thee; and I am old and gray, and behold, my sons are with thee; and I have walked before thee from my youth up unto this day.
And Saul enquired of Jehovah; but Jehovah answered him not by dreams, nor by the Urim, nor by the prophets.
And it came to pass, when it was come to pass, that he rose early in the morning, and pressed the wool of the fleece of the fleece of the fleece of the flock, and wrung out the dew of the water.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken to his voice, ye shall not provoke the mouth of Jehovah, neither be ye therefore, nor the king that reigned over you, after Jehovah your God.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up to Samuel.
And Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines; and they were troubled, and were sore afraid.
And the two of them sat, and did eat, and drink; and the father of the young woman said unto the man, I pray thee, consent, I pray thee, to lodge the night, and enjoy thyself.
and between the fords where the Philistines sought to pass over unto the place of the Philistines, the top of a rock on the one side, and the top of a stone on the other side; and the name of the one was Jezth, and the name of the other.
to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of the prophet than of Abel.
And the Amorites drove the children of Dan into the mount; for they slew them not to go down into the valley.
For we have not here a city for ever, but we seek one that is to come.
Wherefore, brethren, having confidence for the door of the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus,
and if a man have lifted up his hands against thee, and lay thy life in danger, yet the soul of my lord shall be saved in the midst of the assembly of Jehovah thy God; and the souls of them that are against thee shall send violently away from him, as stones of a bag.
And the man said to him, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled to-day out of the host. And he said, How went the matter, my son?
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, be thus minded; and if ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.
And his foot was at Ramah, where his house was; there he was judge of Israel, and there he made an altar to Jehovah.
And David and his men went up, and plundered Geshur, and Uzzi, and Amalek: for these were of old men of the lands, as men go to Shur, even to the land of Egypt.
And Jehovah came, and stood there, and called before, and called out, and said, Hear, I pray thee, for thy servant is heard.
And it came to pass in the day of the battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was found.
And when he had said these words, he let the tip of a bone go out of his hand: and the name of that place was called Ramah.
And man took the young goat and the meal-offering, and offered it unto Jehovah upon the rock, to him that doeth wonders: and the name of man and his wife were beholding.
And he returned to Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And he said unto them, If ye go in like this, I will take my reward from thee; and that shall be the end of it.
And he brought near the tribe of Benjamin according to their families, and the family of the redeemed by lot; and Saul the son of Kish was chosen; and they sought him, but could not be found.
who in the days of his flesh, having sent up prayers, and supplications, and crying unto him that was able to deliver him from death, heard his prayer in the fear of God.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, Behold, I say, that thy house and thy fathers's people have stood before me for ever; but now the Lord saith, Let it not be so: I will give glory to those by whom I am glorified, and they that fear me shall be precious in mine eyes.
And Jehovah called to Samuel, and said, Here am I.
And the king said to Baal, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests; and let the people of Edom turn and fall upon the priests, and put upon the linen ephod that day.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth; and his body was set upon the wall of Beth-shan.
And when he had finished prophesying, he came to the high place.
Nevertheless thou hast dealt well with thee in company unto my affliction.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak unto David gently, saying, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants have loved thee; and now, be thou son-in-law unto the king.
Bless Jehovah for the vengeance of Israel, When the people willingly offered themselves.
but we are not among them that are absent, but among them that have faith unto the life of our souls.
If one sin against another, God will judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? But they did not hearken to the voice of their father; for Jehovah determined to slay them.
For the earth, that drinketh in the rain many times, cometh upon it, and bringeth forth herbs for them, because of whom it is clothed, he eateth of blessing from God;
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hear the voice of Jehovah.
And Abigail went quickly, and rode on an ass, and five maidens of her mother that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
As for the battle which ye have seen in me, and have now spoken in me.
looking unto the God, and to the seal of faith, Jesus, who, before the joy before him, endured a cross, ashamed having despised, on the right hand also of God sat down.
And the men of the guard said to Jonathan, and to his armourbearer, Come up to us, and we will show thee a thing. And Jonathan said to his armourbearer, Let us go up, follow me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And at Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, both men and women, and infants and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And Michal let David down through the window, and he fled, and fled.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, surely Jehovah will smite him, or his day shall come, and he shall die; or he shall go down in the battle and perish.
And six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness to the top of Rimmon, and abode at the top of Rimmon four months.
saying, I will proclaim thy name unto my brethren; In the midst of the assembly will I sing in praise of thee.
Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah, to pray for you; and I will teach you the good and the right way.
and turn not aside after vain things, which shall not profit you, nor deliver you; for they are vain.
And it came to pass, when they came to the land of the Kohathites, that Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return, lest my father take care of the asses, and take care of us.
And the words which David spake are, and they declare before Saul, and he receiveth him.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, and the Philistines began the battle against Israel: and Jehovah thundered with a great thunder that day upon the Philistines, and troubled them, and they were overthrown before the face of Israel.
and thy bondmen, and thy maidservants, and thy young men, and the best, and thy asses, he shall take, and prepare for his own work.
And David was stronger than the Philistines with a sling, and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him, and there was no sword in the hand of David.
For then it remaineth for certain to enter into it; and they that first heard the gospel did not come in, because of unbelief.
For I have declared unto him that I will judge his house for ever, because he knew that his sons did wickedly, and did not chastise them.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold him in honour;
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array in Baal Tamar: and the people of Israel came out of their place, out of the pastures of Gibeah.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou didst thresh westward in the valley of God, behold, it is bound in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take it, take it: for there is no other save it. And David said, There is none like that. Give it me.
And Samuel said, What is the noise of this flock in mine ears, and the voice of the herd which I hear?
And he called to his armourbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me; lest it be said that I was slain by a woman. And he did as he was commanded, and slew him.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day of my taking by their hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt: because they remained not in my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
Now while these things were in the beginning, the priests came into the first tent at all times, and prayed and the offering.
For though he was a son, yet learned in the things which he suffered.
Now therefore take thou, and make ready a new cart, and two kine, which have not come under the yoke, and have the kine yoked to the cart, and take their young ones away from them:
and they took away the women that were therein; from the small unto the great they slew none to death; and they went away, and went on their way.
And he judged Israel three years, and died; and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
And the wife of Jonathan wept for it, and said, Thou hast only hated me, and hast not loved me: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the sons of my people, and hast not made it known unto me. And he said unto her, Behold, to my father and to my mother I have not spoken, and to thee I declare.
Wherefore not even the first covenant was confirmed without blood.
And Saul sought to strengthen David to the wall with the spear; but he fled from before Saul, and hanged the spear in the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
And who will hearken unto you in this matter? For as his inheritance is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that remaineth by the stuff; they shall be equally part.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the mighty shepherd of the flock with the blood of an everlasting covenant, our Lord Jesus,
And he divided the three hundred men into three bands, and gave each man a horn, and a vessel in which was a flaming reed.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
Forgive, I pray thee, the trespass of thy servant; for Jehovah will surely make my lord secure, because my lord is fighting against Jehovah; and evil shall not be found in thee all thy days.
And Samuel dwelt until the morning, and opened the doors of Jehovah's house; and Samuel was afraid to shew forth the vision.
And the king said to Baal, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And the people of Edom turned and fell upon the priests, and slew them in that day fourscore and five men that were clothed with a linen ephod.
And Israel and the Philistines went up in array against the other.
For that cause it to come forth from him, and him as dead as the dead, as the stars of heaven, and as the sand which is by the sea.
And he fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, let this iniquity be: and let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thine handmaid.
And Jehovah opened a great tooth in the mouth of the ass, and water came out of it; and when he had drunk them, he refreshed them, and refreshed his strength: therefore the name of that place was called the fountain of him that called out of the upper parts unto this day.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
For the former preach of Christ, that is, not perfect, but minded to raise up tribulation in my bonds.
And the men of the city rose early in the morning, and, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the place that was by it was cut down, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that is built.
And it came to pass, as he came up to a troop, that the Philistines came to meet him; and the Spirit of Jehovah ran upon him, and the cords that were upon his hands were as flax that burneth with fire, and the joints of his hands were melted.
For unto you was grace granted for Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him;
Let us fear lest the promise be left of entering into his rest, that none of you should be thought.
And he went out to meet with Sisera, and said unto him, Turn aside, my lord, turn aside unto me, fear not. And he turned aside unto her, into the tent, and covered him with a covering.
Why did ye not the commandment of Jehovah, but by the hand of Jehovah, that they took their spoil in the sight of Jehovah?
And when they came, he saw Eliab, and said, Behold, his anointed is before Jehovah.
And Michal took the house of the house, and put it upon the bed, and put it upon the head, and covered it with the garments.
and those that were of the sons of Levi received the priesthood, that they should take the tithe of the people according to the law, that is, their brethren, even though they came out of the loins of Abraham.
And they sent unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have ye against me that thou hast come to war against my land?
And David said unto his servants, Every man put on his sword. And every man put on his sword; and David put on his sword; and about four hundred men followed David, and two hundred men were left by their goods.
And Samuel did as Jehovah had said unto him. And he came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the city wondered, and met him, and said, Is thy coming here?
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, and thou, and Ahimelech, and all thy father's house.
And the cloud went up from the city into a pillar of smoke; and Benjamin turned backward, and behold, the whole city went up in smoke.
And they said unto them, I was in great strife, I and my people, with the children of Ammon; and I called you, but ye did not deliver me out of their hand.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did as pleased him.
And there was a war again; and David went forth, and fought with the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and broke them in pieces, and held the lamps in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand, and cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of Israel.
And he said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, that thou hast given him bread and a sword, and have inquired of God for him, that he should rise up against me to lie in wait, as it is this day?
But the little is blessed, but the greater is blessed.
And Jehovah sent thee on the way, and said, Go, and slay the sinners of Amalek, and thou shalt fight against them, until thou hast utterly destroyed them.
And the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet pleasure, and my good fruit, and go to be exalted over the trees?
And he counted them according to their number: the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? for they sware against him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the people returned unto Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And they said unto him, We have come down to bind thee, and deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And he said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye may not come against me.
Do not count thine handmaid for a woman of Belial: For out of the abundance of my complaint and vexation have I spoken hitherto.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
And Jonathan answered Saul, and said unto him, Oh, that David desired me to go to Bethlehem.
And the same things which ye have seen in me, and now hear of me.
And all the congregation sent to the children of Benjamin, who were in the rock of Rimmon, to offer them peace.
And when they went up the ascent to the city, they found maidens coming out to draw water; and they said unto them, Is the seer here?
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none save thee; there is no rock like our God.
but if not, let fire come out of Abimelech, and consume the men of Shechem, and the house of the Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of the Millo, and consume Abimelech.
And when they had gone aside from the house of Micah, the men of the house of Micah came together, and overtook the children of Dan.
Be diligent under instruction: for God is with you as with his sons; for what son is there, whom the father doth not reprove?
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us, for this hath not been done before.
And David departed from thence to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother abide with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
But if thou art afraid to go alone, let thy servant go down with thee.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, saying, I saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: I beseech you, take her for me to wife.
But the high priest shall deal gently with them that are ignorant, and go astray; for he himself is filled with weakness.
Thy servant slew the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistines shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the hosts of the living God.
Let us come therefore with confidence unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace in vain.
And Elkanah her husband went up, and all his household, to offer to Jehovah the burnt offering, and to his vow.
For by faith also Sarah herself became strong to conceive, and she was delivered of a child when she was old, because she judged him that was faithful.
according to zeal, persecute the church of God; according to the judgment that is in the law, speak without blame.
it was so, that all that saw it said, This work hath not been done, nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider, take counsel, and speak.
From that time wait until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, who hath sent you this day to meet me.
And the Philistines came together, and set up their armies; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and stood up in Gilboa.
who kept faith with God, who gave him his stead, even as Moses did in all his house.
And David prospered all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
For the rebellion is as the sin of divination, and the imagination of idols, and of idols: because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, and have cast you off from being king.
And Jonathan answered Saul, and said unto him, Send me away from me to Bethlehem.
And the king sat upon his throne, as at other times, even upon the seat by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat by Saul's side; but David's place was empty.
And Saul and the men of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in the valley of Siddim, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And Heber the Kenites had separated himself from the Kenites, even from the children of Reuel, Moses' father-in-law, and pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
For when the priesthood changes, of necessity there is a change of the law.
And now, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and it shall be for us to deliver him into the king's hand.
Thou hast put all things under his feet: for in that he put all under subjection under him, he left nothing that is not under him: but now we see not yet all things put under him.
And Samuel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day.
And he said unto them, I will not reign over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah will reign over you.
And he ran to him, and said, Behold I, for thou hast called me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
As for the same things which ye have seen in me, and now have heard of me.
And Saul said, I have sinned: come again, O David my son, for I will not hurt thee again; for my life is precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done as a fool, and have done a horrible thing.
And the king sent to call the priests the son of Ahitub, and all the house of his father, and the priests that were in him; and they came all before the king.
And David said, What have I done? is it not there?
And the children of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil which hath been done among you?
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her with her bones, and sent her into all the coasts of Israel.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bore his armor, Come, let us go over to the camp of these uncircumcised, that it may be Jehovah do for us: for it is easy for Jehovah to save both by many, or by few.
And the stork gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye are men of Gilead, among the children of Ephraim, and among the Manassites.
Now there was no artismith found in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make their swords and their spears.
I have all things, and more than enough: I am full of the measure of my heart, and of the sweet smell of sweet savor, a sweet savour, a sweet savour unto God.
The river of the river overflowed them, The ancient river, the river of the river; Thou hast trodden down strength.
Salute all your members, and all the saints. The brethren of Italy salute you.
And it came to pass, when Saul was told that David was gone to Keilah, and Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand, because he hath shut himself in a city with two gates.
And the Carmelite answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now, that break away every man from his master.
Let us therefore now come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace in time of need.
Now therefore let us go forth unto him without the camp, his reproach.
There is a generation honorable in all, and the bed is perfect: for the whoremongers and the adulterers, God will judge.
But David sware, and said, Thy father seeth that I love thee; and he saith, Let Jonathan not know this, for it shall be a mourning unto him; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is a way between me and death.
And the name of his firstborn is Joel; and the name of his second was Abijah, and the judges in Beer-sheba.
And Jonathan answered and said unto Saul, Behold, David desired me to go up to Bethlehem.
Yea, if I be poured out on the sacrifice and in your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice with you all.
And every one stood in his place round about the camp; and all the camp fled; and they cried as they fled.
As to whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called:
And he went down, and talked with the woman, and she was pleased with the woman.
For it is not for the blood of oxen, Nor for the goats to take away sins.
For ye know that afterward, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was despised; for a place of repentance he found not, though with tears sought it.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was first upon him in Arnon; and the name of Jehovah was Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped by the fountain which is in Jezreel.
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters without his father's house, and thirty daughters without his father's house for seven years.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, and were joined together as one man.
But after the judgment was dead, they returned, and did more worse than their fathers, serving strange gods, serving them, and worshipping them; and they left not their own doings, and the stubbornness, by which they were wont to walk.
And Jair rose up from Gilead, and judged Israel twenty and two years.
And the children of Israel besought Jehovah; for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there in those days.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Bethlehem: and the elders of the city came to meet him with trembling, and said, Do thou come peaceably?
And this I pray, that your love yet more, and more may abound in full knowledge and all judgment;
And they said unto them, Come and be our chief, that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
by knowledge of the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming time,
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a certain woman, and I will go unto her, and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, a woman hath a familiar spirit in Endor.
And the child Samuel grew on, and was in favour with the Lord, and also with men.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the house of the father of his mother, saying,
And Ephraim slew not the Canaanite that dwelt in Gezer, but dwelt with him.
For the law hath a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things: by the same sacrifice which they offer continually every year, can not be able to make it perfect.
And the watchman saw a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him, Let us shew us the entering into the city, and we will deal kindly with thee.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel; and when they were gathered together, Israel was smitten before the Philistines; and they slew of the host in the field about four thousand men.
And they asked the Lord again, Is the man yet come hither? And Jehovah said, Behold, he is hid in the vessels.
But I beseech you to do this, that I may be returned unto you shortly.
and he fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, the iniquity; and let thy handmaid speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was girded with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And the people came to Bethel, and sat there until evening before God; and they lifted up their voice, and wept sore.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Why hast thou not answered me this day? If the sin is in me, or in Jonathan my son, O Jehovah God of Israel, give forth the Urim, and if it be in thy people Israel, give them the Thummim, and by the judgment of Saul, and by the judgment of Saul, and of Jonathan.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field; and he looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
O ye of Sisera, looking at the window, and cry out through the lattice, Why are his chariots so long in coming? why tarry the bands of his chariots?
that ye are not to be idle; but as for those that are of faith and patience, ye are heirs of the promise.
and the peace of God, that is exceeding excellent, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.
And after him Abdon the son of Dodo, the Pirathonite, prince of Israel.
But if thou art afraid to go down, go with thy servant, and thou shalt go down unto the camp.
And all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, every one to cut off his own seed, and cut off, and cut off, and cut off.
For this child did I pray; and Jehovah gave me my request, which I asked of him.
And they slew the bullock, and brought in the youth to Eli;
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wives, which they had saved alive of the women of Gilead: and yet they did not feed them.
And Japhlet the Gileadite was a mighty man, and he was the son of a harlot: and Gilead was the father of Japhlet.
and all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear: for Jehovah is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.
even great riches have counted the reproach of Christ than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked for the reward of reward.
And Japhlet passed over to the children of Ammon, to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
And he said, Draw near hither, all ye princes of the people, and know, and see, that this sin is this day.
that thou hast put all things under his feet. For in that he hath subjected all things unto him, he left nothing that is not subject to him: but now we see not all things subject unto him.
And he brought him down, and, behold, they spread over the whole land, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Therefore the children eat blood and flesh, he also, in like manner also, took part in the same, that through death he might destroy him that hath the power of death, that is, the devil.
And Hananiah conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have called him of Jehovah.
And all Midian and Amalek, and the children of the east, gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And when she saw that it was found unto her all his heart, she sent to the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up again, for now he hath opened his heart unto me. And they went up with them the money which they had promised.
and to them that were in Bethel, and unto them that were in the south side of Ramoth and out of Jattir,
And the old man answered him, Peace be with thee: I will prepare all things which are needful: only I beseech thee, tarry not in the street.
nor by the blood of the goats, and of the calves, but by his own blood went into the most holy place, having found an everlasting redemption.
For all things were made clean with blood, according to the law; and without blood, there is no remission.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, consider this man of Belial, even the wife of Nabal: for as his name is, so is he; and folly is with him; but I thine handmaid have not seen the young men of my lord, whom thou sentest.
not one of you that seek your own pleasure; but each one of you for the sake of another.
Now there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel; and he was a great man, and had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats; and he drew the wool of his sheep in Carmel.
For men swear by one greater than themselves; and a solemn oath is the end of all their charges.
And he said, This shall be the right of the king, that shall reign over you: he shall take your sons, and put them in his chariots, and will make them his horsemen, and his running men shall run before his chariots.
And God sent unto the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil that they had done, and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
And Jesse begat seven sons of his sons before Samuel; and Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen any of these.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with thee? and their anger was abated at him, as he said.
Then all the children of Israel rose up out of the place where they were, and set their armies in array, in the place which is called Baal; and the ambushes also, which were at the city, began by little and little to come forth.
And the children of Israel strengthened themselves, and set up their battle in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
And the children of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, all the city, and the cattle, and all that they found; and all the cities which they found they set on fire.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and they cried, and pursued the Philistines, until thou comest to the valley, and to the gate of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines fell down on the way to Calneh, even to Gath, and to Ekron.
I repented that I caused Saul to reign for king; for he turned back from following me, and my words he did not perform. And it displeased Samuel, and cried unto Jehovah all the night.
that they might deliver them, that through the fear of death were all their days under bondage.
The sons of Eli were the children of Belial; they knew not Jehovah.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted and slew it; and she took flour and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread.
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him a king.
And one of the same place answered and said, Who is their father? So it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For he that hath entered into his rest hath also rest from his works, as God hath done from his own.
And Shammah said to the young man that held him by the hand, Let loose of me, and suffer me to be the pillars upon which the house standeth, that I may lean upon them.
For if that had been without blemish, there should not be a place sought for a second.
And his father in law, the father's father, spared him; and he abode with him three days: so they fasted and drank, and lodged there.
for in that he suffered, being tempted, he is able to help those that are tempted.
And Jonathan said, Far be this from thee: for if I should surely know that evil is determined by my father against thee, I could not tell thee.
and when Jehovah hath done for my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and hath set thee over Israel,
And Saul built an end to Jehovah; and he began to build altars to Jehovah.
And Jesse called Abinadab, and brought him before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And do ye all, without murmuring, and doubting?
The bow of mighty men is broken; But they that stumble themselves with strength.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing before.
and, behold, a pillar of smoke rose up out of the city; and Benjamin looked back, and saw that the city was taken, and the flame ascended on high.
And one of the young men answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Syrian, who is skilful in singing; and he is a mighty man, and a man of war, and skilful in speech, and of good speech; and Jehovah is with him.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter as wife to the man that overcometh Kirjath Sepher, and taketh it.
I beseech thee, I beseech thee, the chief captain of the earth, I beseech thee, that thou wouldest be of the same mind in the Lord.
The Lord is the giver of death and life; He bringeth men down to Sheol, and bringeth them up.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto the wife of Jonathan the son of Barachel the son of Barachel, that he may shew us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have thou called us to destroy us? Is it not so?
And all the Midianites, and Amalek, and the people of the east, gathered together, and passed over the Jordan, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And Jonathan gave unto Saul his father a good account of David, and said unto him, Let not the king deal treacherously against his servant, against David; for he hath done thee no wrong, and all his works have been good unto thee.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let every man go unto his own city.
For whosoever liveth in milk is not known in the word of righteousness; for he is a child.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of the strangers, who are not of the children of Israel; but we will go up unto Gibeah.
And he shall appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties, and will set them to hear his ground, and to gather his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and his chariots.
And through him let us offer a sacrifice of praise unto God continually, that is, the fruit of the lips that proclaim to his name.
and thy bondmen and thy maid-servants, and thy master's young men, and thy asses, he will take away, and put them to his work.
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
If, then, were perfect in the priesthood, for the people under it had received the law, what need shall it suffice, according to the order of Malchijah, for the priest to arise, and not to be called according to the commandment of Aaron?
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and fight against the Canaanite, that I may go with thee in thy lot; and Simeon went with him.
and both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service with blood, in like manner as he sprinkled,
And Caleb said, He that smiteth KirjathSepher, and took it, then I have given him Achsah my daughter for a wife.
But as to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: the same things that write unto you unto me is not burdensome, and ye are confident.
And it came to pass in the days of the days that Hanun conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel; for I had asked him from Jehovah.
And Abigail came to the Carmelite; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, as the feast of a king; and the heart of Nabal was merry within him; for he was very drunken. And she told him nothing, until the morning light.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he fled after them; and he pursued them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
And I will make Sisera the captain of the army of Jabin, with his chariots and his army, and I will come against you at the river of Kishon, whither I will give him into thy hands.
And Israel was very weak from the presence of Midian; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
And Jonathan spake well to Saul his father, and said unto him, The king should not sin against his servant David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his service is very good.
This is the way for me to meditate on all of you, because I have in my heart, in my bonds, and in my defence, and through the gospel, that ye all partake with me of grace.
And they turned aside from their way to the house of the Levites, the house of Micah, and said unto him, Is it well with thee?
that we may draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our heart loosed from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
He that did not set apart a law of Moses, apart from mercy, by two or three witnesses shall die;
And all the children of Israel and all the people went up, and came to Bethel, and wept; and they sat there before Jehovah, and fasted on that day until the evening; and they offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
and thou shalt hear what they say; and afterward thou shalt have courage, and go down against the camp. And he went down with the conduit of his servant to the place of the armed men that were in the camp.
And they made a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If indeed thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hand,
who through faith hath subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, hath sworn, hath stopped the lion,
and they are many that are become priests; for by death they are hindered from the remnant.
And the boil took up the thigh, and that which was on it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, that which is preserved, set it before thee, and eat; for the time is preserved for thee; for I said, I have called the people. And Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And the watchmen of Saul, looking out of Geba in the land of Benjamin, saw all the people running away, and fled thither.
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy not him: for who hath stretched out his hand against Jehovah's anointed one, and hath remained innocent?
But there remaineth a rest unto the people of God.
And it came to pass in these words concerning the ark of God, that he fell down from the door of the gate into the city, and fell upon the earth, that his neck was broken, and died with his neck; for he was an old man, and a great weight, and he judged Israel forty years.
And David departed from thence, and fled to the cave of Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's house heard of it, they went down to him there.
And one of the servants answered, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Syrian, that is cunning in singing, and a mighty man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and excellent in matters, and Jehovah with him.
And he said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up, and he is covered with a garment. And Saul knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And the Philistines took him, and took out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with two brazen fetters; and he was grinding in the prison.
Now when David had finished talking with Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and David loved him as his very life.
and at Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, even unto the woman, even unto the child, even unto the suckling, and the ox, and the ass, and the sheep, by the mouth of the sword.
And it came to pass at the time of the giving of Michal the daughter of Saul unto David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray thee, my eyes have shined, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
I have sent him more abundantly, that when ye see him again ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
And I will not go out from before them, nor cast out before them any of the nations whither Joshua died in this land.
not as though I have attained, or was already perfect; but I follow after, if I may by any means be found, in which I am borne by Christ Jesus.
And Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that was with him, The young man that was with him, Come, let us go over to the Philistines; but he said nothing to his father.
Yea, my father, behold, thou shalt see the hem of thy garment in my hand; for in that I cut off the hem of thy garment, and did not kill thee, know, and see that there is neither evil nor rebellious in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee, though thou hunt for my life to take it.
And he brought down the people unto the waters; and Jehovah spake unto him, saying, Every one that goeth out of the water with his tongue, as a dog's dog, shall thou set by himself; and likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day, if ye hear his voice,
Christ also took not himself the glory of the high priest, but was given it by him that said, Thou art my Son, this day I have given thee.
And Abimelech dwelt in the field of the field; and the children of Heth cast out the field, and his brethren, that they might not dwell in Shechem.
And Samuel called the people unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And he shall take thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy groves, and give them to his servants.
At the sound of them dividing the sheep among the watering places, there shall they declare the righteousness of Jehovah, the righteous deeds of his mighty men in Israel; and the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Call the roll, and see who is gone from us. And they called the roll, and found that Jonathan and his armor were not present.
And Saul said unto Samuel, But I have obeyed Jehovah's voice, and have gone the way that Jehovah sent me, and have brought down Amalek the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed Amalek.
For this is the covenant which I will make unto the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will give my law into their heart, and in their heart will I write them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Let every man be numbered, and let us see who is gone from us: and when they were numbered, they saw that Jonathan and his servant were not there.
And it shall come to pass, that on the third day I will send arrows upon my bow, as if it were a mark.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have in my hand a measure of silver, and I will give it to the man of God, that he may shew us our way.
And he said unto all Israel, Be thou on one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people answered Saul, saying, Do what pleaseth thee.
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses; and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan, until the day of the captivity of the land.
And they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried to Gath; and they carry the ark of the God of Israel about there.
And David went into a secret place in the land; and when the new moon came, the king took his place at the feast.
The watchmen of Saul, Gibeah of Benjamin, looked; and, behold, the multitude melted away, and scattered.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul there that day stood before Jehovah; and his name was called of Edom, the chiefest of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of the valley, and her name was called by her name.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and unto all his servants, to put David to death.
By faith we understand the ages to be made ready by the word of God, in regard to the things which are not come forth.
But in a very little time he that cometh shall come, and shall not tarry.
And the servant said unto him, Behold now, in this city there is a man of God, who is highly honored, and all that he saith cometh true: let us go thither now, that he may grant us our journey.
And one of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man that is come up, for he is come up to defy Israel? and the man that killeth him, the king shall greatly enrich him, and give him his daughter, and shall make his father's house free from the tribute in Israel.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he cometh before thee. Now now he cometh in unto the city; for the people have said a sacrifice in a high place.
And this man went up out of his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And David said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath heard for certain that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and put them upon this rock, and pour out the broth thereof over it. And he did so.
So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was come, the king sat down to eat bread.
Harden not your heart, as in the provocation in the day of temptation in the wilderness:
And the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish answered, and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? Now therefore consider what ye have to do.
And he said unto them, I will not reign over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah will reign over you.
And Husham fled; and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his fingers and toes.
And he said unto the child that took him by the hand, Let me put my hand upon the posts that uphold the house, that I may bring my back against them.
For we that believed in my wrath, as he said, They shall never enter into my rest. And these works are accomplished from the foundation of the world.
And Saul said, God do so unto me, and also more; thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
And Saul said, Tell David, The king desireth no dowry, save one hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. And Saul thought he would make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And I and all that are with me shall blow upon the trumpet, and ye shall blow upon the trumpets, and ye shall compass the camp round about; and ye shall say, Unto Jehovah, and to break up.
And he smote the Amalekite from Havilah, until thou comest to Shur, that is over against Egypt.
And he sent and made him come in, and behold, he had red hair, and fair eyes, and pleasant, and Jehovah said, Come, and anoint him, for this is he.
And Elijah said unto the angel of Jehovah, Tarry, I pray thee, and let us prepare for thee a goat.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the mountain, and he was before them.
But if they say, Come up unto us, and we will go up: for Jehovah hath given them into our hands; and this will be the sign unto us.
And the voice of God came unto Saul in Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid in the height of the high place, in the sight of the wilderness?
But the sons of Belial said, How can this man deliver us? And they despised him, and brought him no gifts; but he was as a deaf.
The children of Belial have said, This man shall save us. And they despised him, and brought not unto him a present; and he was as a deaf.
And his armor said, Do all that is in thine heart, that thou mayest do; for I am with thee all the way.
And they said, Wherefore hath Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath done this day in Israel, that one tribe is lacking from Israel?
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went, every man to his inheritance, to possess the land.
Let our lord now speak; thy servants are before thee; they shall seek a man, a skilful workman upon the harp; and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit of God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and day, as we were with them keeping the sheep.
And I will make him know that I am to judge his house for ever, because of the iniquity that he knew; for his sons were bringing a curse upon themselves, but he reproved them not.
And Saul said, I have sinned, and return, my son David: for I will no more do thee hurt, because my life hath been precious in thine eyes this day: for it is a very foolish thing, and it is very foolish.
And the children of Israel were beaten under their yoke, for eighteen years all the children of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which is in Gilead, were oppressed.
This is the thing that ye shall do; every man, and every woman that lieth with a man, shalt thou destroy.
Who can have mercy on them that are ignorant and that are led astray? For he himself is surrounded with infirmity.
And the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli; and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, and there was no open vision.
By faith he went out of Egypt, and did not fear the king's wrath; for he tarried still, as seeing him that is not of God.
But that ye may abide in the flesh more need for you.
And this is what thou shalt do: Every male and every woman that hath known men ye shall kill; but the virgins ye shall save.
Moreover all the generation was gathered unto their fathers, and another generation grew up after them that knew not Jehovah, nor the work which he had done for Israel.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
For the covenant of men is dead; otherwise there is no strength in all the days of the living.
And the people came into the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of Jehovah out of Shiloh, and bring it unto us, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And Adam rose up, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake to the woman? And he said, I am.
And he fell between her feet, and fell, and lay down; and bowed down between her feet, and fell; and where he bowed, there he fell.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, which, being without sin, made an offering of himself to God by the Holy Spirit, make your hearts clean from the dead, to serve the living God?
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was very troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy servant hath heard thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou hast spoken unto me.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, come hither unto me with the ephod. And Abiathar took the ephod to David.
And his servants told David these words, and the thing was right in the sight of David, to be son-in-law to the king; and the days were not full.
Turn not away to vain things that can not profit, nor deliver: for they are vain.
For the word of God is living and effectual, and more iron than any two-edged sword; and reaching unto the course of the soul, and the spirit, and the marrow, and the marrow, and the understanding.
And it came to pass, when the Edomites had said, I saw the son of Jesse, and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub:
So the sabbath rest remaineth for the people of God.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou art come unto me with the sword, with a spear, and with a spear; but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, whom thou hast reproached.
So that all that fell that day of Benjamin were five thousand men that drew the sword: all these were valiant men.
that ye may be perfect and without fault, the sons of God without rebuke, in the midst of a perverse and crooked nation, among whom ye shall shine as lights in the world.
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread, and the hungry are no more: yea, the barren beareth seven, and there is no more feeble.
Be strong, and be strong as men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they are unto you: quit yourselves as men, and fight.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went, and went, and two men with him; and they came to the woman by night; and he said, Ask for me by the spirit, and bring me up unto thee whomsoever I shall call thee.
But the people took of the spoil, and the sheep, and the oxen, and the chief of the vessels that should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And Deborah, and Rebekah, the son of Abinadab, was on that day, saying,
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David beheld the place where Saul was, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay in the wall, and the people encamped round about him.
and his mother made a long robe for him, and took it unto him year by year, when she came up with her husband to offer the sacrifice.
And when Sisera gathered all his chariots, even one hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the descent of the nations unto the river of Kishon.
God therefore, when we should see some good thing for us, they should not be made perfect without us.
And Saul said, I have sinned: turn again, my son David: for I do evil to thee no more; for that my soul hath been precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done foolishly, and have walked very much.
Thou shalt not speak with pride, nor let thine mouth be lifted up; for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by his works are the balances.
And he said, Wherefore is my lord pursuing after his servant? what have I done? and what evil is in my hand?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, It is an old man clothed with a garment. And Saul saw that it was Samuel; and he bowed himself to the earth, and glorified him.
But the children of Israel, even their former sins, did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served idols, and the Baalim, and the idols, and the gods of Syria, and of Sidon, and of the children of Ammon, and of the children of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines: and they left Jehovah, and served him not.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing before.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made judges over Israel.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah had said, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the city came trembling to meet him, and said, Dost thou come peaceably?
And the Philistines were subdued, and they went not again into the land of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit of God is troubled thee.
Shall I then take my bread and my water, and my flesh that I have slain for my shearers, and give it to men, whom I know not whence they are?
And Jehovah appeared in Shiloh, for Jehovah shewed himself to Samuel in Shiloh, according to the word of Jehovah. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel.
And they came down from the high place into the city, and spake with Saul upon the roof.
So David returned from smiting the Philistines; and Abner took him, and brought him before Saul; and the head of the Philistines was in his hand.
And thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this high place, in order, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the Asherah, which thou shalt cut down.
For if he were on the earth, he should not be priest at all, seeing there are priests that offer the gift according to the law.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up, and I will give the land into his hand.
And when she heard the noise of the crying, and said, What is the noise of this uproar? And the man came quickly, and told him, saying,
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him; and many fell down to the gate of the gate.
So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.
And Israel and the Philistines set themselves in array before the king.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two a new cords, and brought him up out of the rock.
Grace be with you all.
And we saw that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
And they fled from among his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Ishtob; and vain men were gathered unto fables, and they made haste with him.
And the five men that went to search the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
As for the man Micah, he had a house of gods; and he made an ephod and teraphim, and consecrated the hand of one of his sons, and he was to him for a priest.
Take heed to know all the hidden places whither he lieth, and return unto me, and I will go with you; and I will go with you; and if he be in the land, I will bring him, among all the families of Judah.
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah God of Israel, if I shall find my father's heart, to morrow or the morrow, and there be anything good for David, and I send not away to thee, and make it known unto thee,
And I took you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that were cruel unto you, and I sent them out from before you, and gave you their land.
And all Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was a prophet of Jehovah.
Now his parents knew not that the thing was done by Jehovah, and that he sought an occasion against the Philistines; for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the custom of the priests among the people was this: When any man brought a sacrifice, as the meat had boiled, the servant of the priest took a full manner of meat in his hand,
And Saul commanded all the people to go down to fight against Keilah, and to besiege David, and to his men.
And he said unto Saul, Why hast thou heard the words of men that say that David seeketh thy hurt?
According to all the works that they have done from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And the servants of Saul spake in the ears of David these words, and David said, Is it a light in your eyes to be son-in-law to the king, and I am poor and despised?
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knew; for his sons brought a curse upon themselves, and he restrained them not.
And he clave unto him the children of Ammon, and Amalek; and he went and overthrew Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
And as Samuel turned about to go, he took hold of the hem of his garment, and rent.
that we may see that there is no man among you disorderly among you, because of the grace of God; lest some bitter root come up to thee, lest haply some of you be defiled by it.
And he was yet in the body of his father, when he met him.
and I have caused him to ask for Jehovah, even all the days that he hath lived, that he may ask Jehovah. And he bowed himself before Jehovah.
After that, the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the south, and in the lowland.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
and took their daughters as wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.
At the time of judgment all things are to be sorrowful, and not joy; but after, they that are instructed by it, receive the peace of righteousness.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years over Israel.
And David rose up afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king: and when Saul looked behind him, David bowed himself with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
that ye may be perfect and without blemish, children of God, in the midst of a generation that are perverse and perverse, among whom ye are come as the light of the world.
For there is a man set free in Israel: For a people willingly offered themselves thanks unto Jehovah.
And he said, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest; and I will give thee ten pieces of silver, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver, and double raiment, and thy food.
And the children of Israel said, Who hath not come up into the assembly out of all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah? For the oath is against him that cometh not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He is surely put to death.
And it came to pass all that day, that Abimelech fought against the city; and he took it, and slew the people that were therein, and had the city rent, and covered with salt.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us delay thee, and we will make ready a kid of the goats for thee.
And he said, Behold, I come to do, O God, thy will; he shall take away the first that he may establish.
For the tabernacle was prepared, the first, in which was the candlestick, and the table, and the bread of the presence, which is called, Holy.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And David said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, Who shall go down with me to the tents of Saul? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
When I saw that thou didst not save me, I put my soul in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: why then hast thou come up to me this day, to fight against me?
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done unto me: depart from me two months, and I shall go on, and go down upon the hills; and I will weep for my virginity, I and my friends.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed thou of Jehovah: I have done the word of Jehovah.
Take heed to nothing; but in all things, by prayer and supplication, let your supplication be made known unto God.
But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a reward of them that seek him diligently.
So he went in, and boiled a young goat, and made unleavened cakes of fine flour, and put the flesh in a basket, and the broth of the flesh was in a pot, and he carried all under the oak, and presented unto him.
And Noah blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt that is lent unto Jehovah: and they went to his own house.
And he said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? Hast thou drunk the wine, which thou hast taken too much?
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and took the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For they that were once glorified, and had tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
And he said unto the young man that walked by his steps, Let me touch the pillars that uphold the whole house, and let me lean upon them, and rest a little.
And God hearkened unto the voice of a man; and the angel of God came again to the woman while she sat in the field; but man was not with her husband.
And David said to the king, If now I have found favour in thine eyes, let them give me a place in a certain city, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant abide in the king's city with thee?
And thou shalt say unto God, Let not thine anger burn against me, and I will speak only this time: let me try, I pray thee, only this time with the fleece of the fleece: let there be a drought upon the wool alone, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
And he did valiantly, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of their spoilers.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to Beth-el, and inquired of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah first.
And now let not my blood fall to the earth far from the presence of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come forth to seek a piece of iron, as when the partridge is upon the mountains.
Remember him that hath suffered many evil against himself, that thou mayest not faint and faint.
And now, behold, thy kingdom standeth not, Jehovah hath sought for himself a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah commanded him to be ruler over his people; for thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
Wherefore, as saith the Holy Spirit, this day if ye will hear his voice,
And Husham took his hand, and had the young man with him, for his priest, saying,
And they saw an Egyptian, whom they took to David; and they gave him bread, and he ate bread, and gave him water for drink.
Now therefore, what is under thy hand? I pray thee, give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatsoever is the gift.
And he brought thee out of the hand of Midian, and delivered thee from the hand of Midian;
and had taken the women captives that were in it, both great and small: they had not put any to death, but had carried them off, and went on their way.
And Saul said unto his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come, and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armourbearer would not; for he was afraid. So Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And she said, The glory of Israel is departed, because the ark of God was taken.
And all the people likewise smote every man his branch, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the hold, and set it on fire, that all the men of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
Remember not thy servant a wicked woman: For I am speaking out of the abundance of my complaint, and my wrath.
And it came to pass that night, that the Lord said unto him, Take ten men of thy servants, and an ox seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal, which is thy father's, and cut down the holy tree by his side;
And Sisera gathered all his chariots; and all the men of war were nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the host that was with him from the ascent to the river of Gaash.
And the children of Israel returned, and the men of Benjamin marvelled; for they saw that evil was come upon them.
that by two change of things, in which it was impossible that God should lie, we might have a strong comfort, who have fled for a place to lay hold on the hope set before us;
And it came to pass, when the messenger of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice and wept,
Saul therefore put on other garments, that he might not be seen to be the king; and he took two men with him, and came to the woman by night: and he said, Now with the help of the spirit which thou hast, make the man whose name I will give thee.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house; and the child ministered unto Jehovah before Eli the priest.
Arise, and let us go up unto them; for we have seen the land, which is exceeding rich and fruitful: do not forget, cease not: let us go and possess it, and there shall be no trouble.
And Saul said unto him, Why hast ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, by thy giving to him bread and a sword, and to ask for him at God, to rise against me, to lie in wait, as this day?
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands; and they smote ten thousand of them.
Then said he unto Zebah and Anammelech, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one was like the sons of a king.
to whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.
And Samuel died; and all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his city; and Saul turned aside the mediums and the wizards out of the land.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon nuts, and passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over to Mizpah; and he passed over to the children of Ammon from Mizpah.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day, and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
And Jehovah raiseth up judges, and they save them from the hand of their spoilers.
for they and their cattle shall come up with their tents; they shall come in as the gathering of the caterpillar for multitude, and of them and of their cattle there is no number; and they shall come into the land to destroy it.
And Saul sent for the army, and gathered them together, and gathered them together; and he gathered two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand footmen.
And after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites to fight against them?
The bow of the mighty is overcome, And the weak are girded with strength.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, that thou wouldest send away mine enemy, and he is escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, Send me away, why kill I thee?
according to my expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so also Christ also shall be exalted in my body, whether it be by life or by death.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray thee, that mine eyes are white, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
In these last days spake unto us in a Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, through whom also he hath made the world.
For the service of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah set up, and not man.
For this is the testimony of the elders.
For we are the circumcision, who worship God and glory in Jesus Christ, and have no faith in the flesh:
And he found a certain ass of a ass; and he came down, and took it, and slew a thousand men with it.
Nevertheless thou hast done well that thou hast eaten in my affliction.
for we have not here a city, but we seek the coming one.
And the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred iron chariots; and for twenty years he was very cruel to the children of Israel.
And when he saw that he was a messenger of Jehovah, he said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! for I have seen a messenger of Jehovah face to face.
Now the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and all the people of the east covered the valley like grasshoppers, and their camels as the sand by the sea, without number.
And Saul called for the people, and mustered them in bands, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Heli.
And he answered her, If I shall be bound with a new chain, I shall be weak and like other men.
And a man of God came to him, and said unto him, Lord saith, Did I show myself to the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in bondage unto Pharaoh's house?
And he waited there from that time, till all that are against him are made a footstool for his feet.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he drove out the inhabitants of the mount, but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of the king of Syria, in the hand of the king of Syria; and they served him eight years.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, every one to divide his field, and his mamack, and his axe, and his sickle.
Let not my lord the king, I pray thee, consider this wicked man of Nabal: for he is a fool, and folly is with him; but I thy servant did not see thy servants, my lord, whom thou sentest.
and above it the mercy-seat of the glory of the mercy-seat; for it is not now the time to speak.
looking diligently, that any man may fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness come up against thee, and that it be many.
to whom also Abraham divided a tenth part of all ( first) by interpretation, King of righteousness; and also the king of Salem, which is king of peace.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked God, saying, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
And David said moreover, Jehovah that delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the mouth of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
For it is God, who worketh in you both to do, and to do of his good pleasure.
And the wife of Heber took a nail, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly to him, and smote the girdle into his temples, and it fell through the ground; for he was in a deep sleep: and he fainted, and died.
God also that worketh miracles, with signs and wonders, and manifold powers, and distributing of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
But these things have I counted unto me, for the sake of Christ, loss.
And Jonathan cried again after the lad, saying, Haste quickly, stand not. And Jonathan's son gathered the arrows, and brought them to his master.
And they slew Moab at that time, about ten thousand, all strong and strong men, and none of them could escape.
And it came to pass, when Joshua had given them rest, that he spake not unto him a second day.
We say also that by Abraham even Levi, who receive tithes, hath given the tithes,
And many of the brethren in the Lord rejoice in my bands, and much more bold to speak the word of God without fear.
And blessed among women be the wife of the wife of the sorceress, and blessed be she in her tent.
Do not forget to do good and to be partakers of it; for with such sacrifices God is well-pleasing.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And they said unto him, When thy word shall come to pass, what wilt thou that the child should do? or what shall he keep himself?
And he said unto them, What now have I done with you? Is not the cluster of the cluster of Ephraim better than the cluster of Abiezer?
And David said, What have I done now? is there a cause for me?
and as a covering thou shalt roll them up, and they shall be changed; but thou art the Sameand thy years shall not fail.
And after him the fifth of the children of Heth judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Shammah the son went out, and took two of the midst of the midst of the house, which lay down; and he leaned upon them, one on his right hand, and one on his left.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring forth the portion that I have given thee, concerning which I said unto thee, Keep it with thee.
And he said, I have sinned: honour me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may serve Jehovah thy God.
But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministration, by how much also he is the mediator of a good covenant, which was confirmed by promise.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped there; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
And they went out before the people of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And the son of Shelemiah went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city. Then Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, out of the ambush.
And they cried unto the children of Dan; and they turned their faces, and said to Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and raiseth up.
And Jair died, and was buried in Ibleam.
But the tree fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his hands, and his great toes.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel: and said unto David, Know thou, that thou shalt go out with me to the camp, thou and thy men.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with thee upon this matter, that all thy right eyes are put out, that I may make it a reproach to all Israel.
And he built an altar unto Jehovah, and called it, saying, Jehovah is peace. Unto this day thou shalt be in the midst of the house of the Rechabites.
And David the son of Ammiel, the Hushathite of Judah, whose name was Jesse, and he had eight sons, and the man in the days of Saul became old among men.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the scribe, and stood there; and there was a great stone there, and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered up the kine for a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
I know how to be brought down, and I know how to abound; yea, in all things, and in all things I am instructed, both to be filled, and to be hungry, and to abound, and to suffer.
And the people came to Bethel, and abode there before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept bitterly.
so also he is able to save all them that draw nigh to God through him, because he always liveth to pray for them.
and it is our desire that ye may all keep the same hour in hope to the end:
And he went up thence, and spake unto them; and the men of Penuel answered him, as the men of Succoth answered.
And they gave that place the name of Jehovah, to Jehovah, and made an offering there unto Jehovah.
Let us therefore offer sacrifice unto God continually to God, that is, of the fruit of lips, confessing his name.
Far be it from the noise of the archers, in the valley of waters, there they shall declare the righteousness of Jehovah, the righteous acts of his kingdom in Israel. Then they went down to the gates.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking, that he cast away his face from his hand, and called that place Ramah.
Therefore, therefore, holy brethren, chosen to have a part in heaven, set upon him the high priest of our faith,
But I rejoiced in the Lord exceedingly, that ye also have been refreshed for me, for whom also ye were thinking, but ye had no opportunity to speak unto it.
And the youth knew nothing; only Jonathan and David knew the word.
And when they came thither to the mountain, behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Jakeh, the son of Zerahiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of a Benjamite, a very great man.
And Japhlet the Gileadite was a great man of war; he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead was his father.
And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanite in Gezer; and the Canaanite dwelt in the midst of Gezer.
And Saul said unto his servants, Get me a woman that hath a spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire. And his servants said unto him, There is a woman at Endor.
And Jehovah called the name of Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
And Elon the Jebusite came to his death; and his body was in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And Melchizedek king of Salem, the priest of God Most High, met Abraham from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
Rejoice in Jehovah always: Again will I say, Rejoice.
And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell us, saying, So did David; and so shall he do all the time when he dwelleth in the land of the Philistines.
And David smote the Philistines with his skin and with a stone, and smote the Philistines, and smote the Philistines; but David had no sword in his hand.
The bow of the mighty is broken, And they that stumble are girded with strength.
but, beloved, we are persuaded of good things for you, and things that go with salvation, even though we speak like this.
And they set up for themselves the image which Micah had made; and it was there all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto the wife of Jason the wife, Buy thy husband, that he may shew us the riddle, lest we burn thee and the house of thy father with fire: to possess us have ye called for us? Is it not?
And the six hundred men of the children of Dan girded with their weapons of war, standing at the door of the gate.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah, when he died.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Have I not delivered you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And they said, We will surely give. And they spread out the garment, and cast it thither every man's ring.
Did I come before Jehovah to inquire of Jehovah? Far be this from me: let not the king think such things against his servant, or against all my father's house: for thy servant knoweth nothing of this thing, either small or great.
And the sum of the things spake of: We have such a chief priest, who sat down at the right hand of the glory in the heaven,
but they preach Christ in a spirit of spirit, not from their own heart, but with the purpose of giving me sorrow in my prison.
and he said unto the children of Israel, Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, I have brought Israel up out of the land of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppress you.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will deliver thee with the three hundred men, and I will deliver thee into thy hand; and thou shalt let the people go, each to his own place.
And when Saul heard that David was found, and the men that were with him, Saul dwelt in Gibeah under the oak in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood upon him.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathah, the son of Bethlehem, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: the man was old old in the days of Saul.
And he said, What is the word that he spake unto thee? I pray thee, keep it not from me: God doeth so to thee, and more also, if thou keep back from me all the words that he spake unto thee.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem; and they took it, and put it to the sword, and set the city on fire.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: wherefore they called that place Joktheel unto this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And David said unto Saul, Who is I? and what is my life, the house of my father in Israel, that I am a son-in-law to the king?
And the men of Benjamin did, and took wives for themselves, and took them away from the dance; and they returned to their inheritance, and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And Jehovah said unto him, Verily, I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as if they were one man.
And Saul gave Michal his daughter Michal to David, to wit, the son of Laish, the son of Gallim.
And Jonathan said unto David, What wilt I do for thee?
For many are the ways of whom I have told you often, and now ye weep, that they the enemies of the cross of Christ.
And there came out from over the mount ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel; and the battle was sore; but they knew not that trouble came upon them.
So David and his men arose in the night, and they rose early in the morning, and returned to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And Saul said, No man shall be put to death this day: for this day Jehovah hath delivered Israel.
And the man arose to depart; but his father-in-law besought him, and he lodged there again.
And it came to pass in their coming in, that David returned from smiting the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel to sing, even the instruments of music, to meet Saul the king with timbrels, and with gladness, and with cornets.
And all that were left of the whole camp of the east, even Zebah and Zalmunna, were all of Zebah and Zalmunna, all that were left of the whole camp of the east; for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
But if not, let a fire come out of Abimelech, and let it consume the nobles of Shechem and Beth Millo; and let a fire come out from the hand of Shechem, and from Beth-Millo, and let it consume Abimelech.
And as they went up the ascent to the city, they found young women going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt surely do valiantly, and shalt surely prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, the best and goodly; and there was not among the children of Israel a successor, and above his shoulders, and upward above all the people.
And, behold, as for Sisera, as for Sisera, came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest: and when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that were in Geba; and the Philistines heard; and Saul blew with a trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
then thou shalt swear unto me by Jehovah, that thou shalt not cut off my seed after me, neither blot out my name from my father's house.
that every tongue may confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, See now, I pray thee, an evil spirit from God that troubleth thee.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the children of Dan, and his name was Adam; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
And he shall take thy bondmen, and thy maidservants, and thy young men, and thy asses, and put them unto his work.
And Saul and his men went to seek, and they told David; and he went down into the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon; and Saul heard, and pursued after David the wilderness of Maon.
And the men did so; and they took two oxen, and set them up to the cart, and shut up their calves in the troughs.
This mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus,
For he hath called the former, and hath declared the old to be old; and that which is become old, and that which is grown old is near to pass away.
And the trees say to the fig-tree, Come thou, reign over us.
not that I seek an offering, but for the fruit which shall be given to you.
Then said I, Behold, I come; in the head of the book it is written of me; that I should do thy will, O God.
And the old man lifted up his eyes, and saw the man sitting with his sheaves in the street of the city, and said unto him, Whence comest thou? And whither goest thou?
and I perceive that thou art not a saviour; and I have put my life in my hand, and I will pass over unto the children of Ammon, and Jehovah giveth them into my hand; and why do ye come up unto me this day to fight against me?
and he smote Amalek king of Amalek alive, and all the people that were with him, by the mouth of the sword.
And she was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten before us as at the beginning. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and carry them away out of the city, unto the highways.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, Upon this condition will I make it with thee, that all thine eyes may be consumed, and I will make all Israel a reproach.
And the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant; and his father-in-law, the father of the damsel, said unto him, Behold, the day is come to evening: behold, the day is come to pass: behold, the day is come, and let thy heart be merry; and to-morrow take thee early on thy journey, that thou mayest go unto thy tent.
and ye have knowledge, as well as the former things, that when I went away from Macedonia, there was no assembly with me in the business of the saints, but ye only.
And David said unto the melech, Hast thou here in thy hand a spear, or a sword? for I have not brought my own sword, nor my own weapon with me, for the king's business hasted.
Jehovah hath done unto you as he spake by me: Jehovah hath destroyed the kingdom out of thy hand, and hath given it to thy neighbour, even to David.
And the children of Zebulun: Kedesh, and Naphtali, and the children of Naphtali: Kedesh, and the men of Israel; and Rebekah went up with him.
And the people, the men of Israel, strengthened themselves, and set up the battle in the place where they set themselves in array the first day.
But the righteous shall live by faith; and if he tarry again, my soul delighteth not in him.
and that the reproach of Christ was greater than the treasures of Egypt; for he had respect for the reward.
But the angel of Jehovah was not seen by man, and by man his wife; and he perceived that he was the angel of Jehovah.
Now therefore come down, as thy soul desireth to come down; and it shall be our business to deliver him into the king's hands.
whose voice shook the earth; but now he hath promised, saying, Yet I will not shake the earth alone, but the heaven.
For we see that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
And the Philistines came together, and came in, and encamped there; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this thing that thou hast done unto us, not calling us when thou wentest to fight against the Midianites? And they contended with him.
I can do all these things in him that strengtheneth me.
And we went to the south side of the Philistines, and to Judah, and to Caleb, and to Caleb, and to the south.
And the man went out of the city, out of Bethlehem Judah, to dwell where he could find a place; and he came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, as he went.
And a strong tower was in the midst of the city, and all the men, and the women, and all the masters of the city, and they shut behind them, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled my rest, that I should be brought up? And Saul said, I am in great distress: for the Philistines fight against me, and God is departed from me, and he will not hear me, neither by the hand of the prophets nor of the dream: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest show me what I shall do.
For their iniquity and their iniquity I will remember no more.
And when all Israel heard that Saul had smitten the Philistines, and that Israel was polluted with the Philistines, the people gathered themselves together after Saul to Gilgal.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? even thou art Saul.
Return therefore, and go in peace, and be offended not the eyes of the princes of the Philistines.
And they told him, and said, Behold, Jonathan is here. They compassed him about, and set him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, Tarry until the morning light, and we will kill him.
And concerning the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
Wherefore, a kingdom that can not be shaken, let us have grace, by which we may serve God with joy, with fear and reverence;
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and we will go forth into the field; and they shall go out both of them into the field.
And the children of Israel served Eglon, for eighteen years.
And I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of the house of Eli shall not be purged with sacrifice, nor with a sacrifice for ever.
And they blew the three hundred trumpets; and Jehovah set every man's sword against his brethren, and against all the host; and the people fled as far as Bethshemesh, unto the border of Abel the Meholathite, by the bath.
Some therefore, because of envy and strife preach Christ, but some for good will.
And the angel of Jehovah added not again to man, and to his wife, and said unto his wife, This man is a messenger of Jehovah.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me and my men up to Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee.
Ye bear for correction, God exalteth himself toward you as to children: for who is the son that the father correcteth not?
Cursed be the land of Meribah, saith the angel of Jehovah, curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to help his mighty men.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took women according to their number, out of the dance which they had taken violently: and they went, and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
and thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, and the best thereof, he shall take, and give to his servants.
For I have said unto him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves odious, and he did not withhold them.
And the people grieved Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And it came to pass in the day of the battle at Michmash, that there was no sword, nor a spear in the hand of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan: only Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Joab, and his brethren, come to Shechem; and, behold, they stir up the city against you.
For where the covenant of the covenant of the covenant of the covenant is to come,
And he went in, and prepared a young goat, and an ephah of fine flour, and put it in a basket; and he put it in a vessel, and brought it out to him under the oak, and brought it out to him.
Now therefore, forgive me my sin, and return with me, that I may serve Jehovah.
And when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, thou saidst unto me, No, a king shall reign over us, and Jehovah thy God is thy king.
And David said, Behold, the king's spear! let one of the young men arise, and get it.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest iniquity; because of this he hath anointed thee, O God, thy God, with oil of gladness above thy fellows.
And it came to pass, when they had eaten at Shiloh, that they had been drunken; and, behold, the priest was sitting upon a seat of the house of Jehovah.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who saw all the great work that Jehovah had done for Israel.
And he cast it into the pot, and into the pot, or into the pot, or into the pan; and all that the flesh brought up, the priest took to himself; and so did they unto all Israel that came to Shiloh.
And he said unto his servants, Jehovah be merciful unto me, that I may do no thing unto my master the anointed of Jehovah, as to lay my hand upon him; for he is Jehovah's anointed.
And the parable of Israel was six years for six years: and the children of Barachel the Gileadite died, and he was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of them that are in heaven, and on earth, and under the earth:
And Samuel said unto Saul, Say no more; let me tell thee what the Lord hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Speak.
And Bela went down, and his father and his mother went down to Timnah; and they came to the vineyards of Timnah, and, behold, a lion's whelp roareth at him.
So Joshua sent away the people; and the children of Israel went every man to his own possession.
And he said, And what did Samuel say unto thee?
But if it be thorns and thorns, it is of no use; it is accursed; it shall be burned with fire.
Yea, we have had the fathers of our flesh as men-pleasers, and we are afraid: shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and took their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and the rod, and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Samuel answered Saul, saying, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, that ye may eat with me daily, and I will let thee go in the morning, and tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And it was told unto the giant, saying, Behold, Jonathan is come hither. And they compassed him about, and lay wait for him all night in the gate, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.
For he looked for a city that hath foundations, Whose Maker and God is God.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.
Brethren, my brother, and fellow-soldier, and fellow-soldier, and your apostle, and my servant, to send unto you,
how much less shall he be counted that the Son of God hath trodden on, and the blood of the covenant hath counted a common thing, wherein he was sanctified, and to the Spirit of grace?
And they went through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon; but they came not in the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Let the ephod come hither, for he went before Israel with the ephod.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Take count now, and see that which is lacking of us. And when they were numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armor were not there.
And the princes of the Philistines passed over by hundreds, and by thousands; and David, and his men, were passing in behind.
that I might know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death;
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in mount Ephraim, on the north side of mount Hor.
And with whom was he angry forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?
And they made him a two-edged sword, a cubit long; and he put on his right hand under his robe.
And it came to pass, when they came to the end of the camp, when they came to the end of the camp, that they should break the trumpets, and break the vessels that were in their hands.
And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Kirjath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
And the man of thy house shall not be cut off by my hand, and his eyes shall be darkened, and sorrow shall be in his heart; and all the seed of thy house shall perish by the sword of men.
And Jehovah sent Baal, and Jokshan, and Japhlet, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies round about, and ye dwelt in safety.
Is it not the wheat harvest? I will call unto Jehovah, that he may send thunder and rain; and thou shalt know and see, and see that thy wickedness is great, which thou hast done in Jehovah's sight, in asking for a king.
And they stoned them with stones, and they were cut up with knives; and they were slain with the sword, and they went about rams' skins, and upon the skin of badgers; and they were poor, and in pain, and in pain.
And the woman ran and told her husband; and she said unto him, Behold, he that came unto me the other day appeared unto me.
And they went after the chariots, and went after the chariots, to the top of the field; and all the men of Sisera fell unto the edge of the sword; and none was left.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And Shammah the son went and took three hundred dragons, and took torches, and turned the tail to the tail, and put a lamp in the midst of the two tails.
that ye are not slothful; but they that are believing in faith and patience shall inherit the promises.
And his father went down to the woman; and Jehiel the son made a feast; for so did the young men.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to Aphek; and Israel encamped by the fountain that is in Jezreel.
Now therefore let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: If Jehovah have stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering; but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah: for they have driven me out from abiding in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and let us fight against the Canaanite, and I will go with thee into thy lot; and Simeon went with him.
And David enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he said unto him, Go after me; for thou shalt surely overtake, and shalt surely recover.
And he tarried seven days, according to the time appointed by Samuel; but he came not unto Gilgal, and the people scattered from him.
Show yourselves valiant, and be men, ye Philistines, that ye may not serve the Hebrews, as they have been servants to you; be men, and fight.
but we see Jesus, who made a little less than angels for the sufferings of death, crowned with glory and glory, that by the grace of God he should taste death.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the clothing, and returned, and came to nought.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever that are sanctified.
And the children of Israel put away Baal and Ashtaroth, and Jehovah only.
Behold, here am I, witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken? or whom have I robbed? and who have I afflicted? or of whose hand have I taken a bribe to blind mine eyes? And I will restore it.
O Jehovah God of Israel, why is this great evil in thy people, that a man should be taken away from among us this day?
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a cause of trouble unto him, and that the hands of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, This day thou shalt be my son-in-law for the second time.
For I know that this shall fall to me unto salvation, by your prayer, and by the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went out to search after David, and to his men, even upon the stones of the rocks, which are for wild goats.
As it is meet for me to think this for you all, for that I have you in my heart, and that in my bonds and in my defence, and through the gospel, ye all partake of my joy.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David; and they gave him bread to eat, and water to drink.
For we also have such a great cloud of witnesses round about us, putting aside every weight and sin, that we may run with patience, forbearing the course which is set before us;
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him; and it came to pass, because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, if he did it by day, that he did it by night.
And the name of the daughters of Heber shall be blessed above women, and the Kenites shall be blessed above women in the tent.
And the messenger answered and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there is a great slaughter among the people; and your two sons are dead, the son of Levi, and the chief of Phinehas, and the ark of God.
We have an altar, and there is no place for them to eat the service of the tabernacle;
And the priests' journey with the people: when every man had an offering, the servant of the priest came before him, and the flesh was boiled in his hand, with three teeth in his hand.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he heard these words, and his anger was very kindled.
And it came to pass, when they came into the land of the Kohathites, that Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, let us return, lest my father take care of the asses, and take care of us.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered up thine enemy into thine hand this day: therefore, I pray thee, let me now put him to the ground with the spear, and I will not smite him double.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
And to them that were in Bethel, and that were in Ramah to the south, and to those that were in Jether,
And the trees went forth to anoint a king over them; and they said to the olive tree, Arise over us.
and some out of strife preach Christ not in truth; thinking that they bring sorrow to my bands.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he began to judge Israel, and went out to war; and Jehovah gave up the Ethiopians, the king of Syria, into his hand, and smote him.
And his armourbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart: turn, and behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And he had two wives, the name of a woman, Anna, and the name of the other country; but she had no children.
And as she was dying, the women that stood by her said, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son: but she answered not, neither did she take it to heart.
When she looked out from the window, she cried, and the mother of Sisera cried out through the window, Why is his chariot so long in coming? when shall the noise of his wheels be heard?
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan, until the day of the captivity of the land.
There is also some, even out of envy and contention; but some also for good shall preach Christ.
And Ehud escaped, when they tarried up, and passed by the images, and was escaped to the ground.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, it shall not be unto thee for this thing.
It is better to take a place more than the angels; for his name is greater than they.
So on that day Jehovah delivered Israel, and the battle went up to Beth-aven.
For by it the elders obtained a good report.
And this will we do, if God allows.
And he returned after a time to take her; and he turned aside to see the dead bodies of the lion: and there was a swarm of wild honey in the land of the lion, and of the honey.
And when the lad came to the place of the bow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is not the arrow left over thee?
For it is necessary, therefore, the pattern of the things in the heaven, to be purified with these things, and the things which are in the heavenly things are more than these.
and are fallen away; to be converted again to repentance, to the resurrection of the Son of God, and making him a reproach.
and now, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, in that Jehovah hath kept thee from coming in with blood, and to save thy hand unto thee; now let thine enemies be as the sinner, even those that seek evil unto my lord.
Now therefore bear, I pray thee, my sin, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
And all the tribes of Israel came forward, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent, and it shall be, if any man come in, and ask thee, and said, Is there a man here? that thou hast said, There is not there.
And David said unto him, Whom art thou? And he said, Where art thou? And he said, I am a servant of Egypt, and I am a servant of an Amalekite; and my master left me three days ago.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the house of Joshua, and came to an end there by a great stone, and cut up the wood of the cart, and made a burnt-offering of the herd to Jehovah.
And the captains of the Philistines went out for battle; and they went out, and David reigned more than all the servants of Saul; and his name was magnified.
And an angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Balaam, saying, I have brought thee up out of Egypt, and have brought thee unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will not break my covenant with you.
And he knew that he was the Angel of Jehovah, saying, Alas, Lord Jehovah: for I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
And when the angel of Jehovah heard these words unto all the children of Israel, the people cried and wept.
But the people took of the spoil, and the sheep, and the cattle, and the chief of the devoted things, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not hearkened to my voice.
and Ziklag he gave him to be in Ziklag, that day, and at Ziklag the kings of Judah unto this day.
And when the people saw him, they glorified their God; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, even him that multiplied our slain.
And he set the mount on the north, at Michmash; and the other on the south side southward.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath taken away the kingdom of Israel from you this day by force, and hath given it to thy friend that is better than thou.
And he said, Go among the people, and say unto them, Let every man come hither to me with his ox and his sheep, and slay them here, and eat it; and do not sin against Jehovah by taking the blood with the flesh. So all the people took their cattle with them that night, and slew them there.
But to the measure that we have already been, let us walk by the same rule; let us be of the same mind.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day; and they set themselves in array against Gibeah, as before.
God hath delivered into thy hand the captains of Midian, and Oreb, and Zeeb; and what have I to do with thee? And their anger was with him, when he spake.
And they went into the house of Micah, and brought the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the priest unto them, What do ye?
For the priesthood is changed; there is no necessity in the law.
For our freedom is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
And he had two wives: and the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other Phanuel, and the name of the river, and the name of the younger.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, Great is our sin against you, for we have forsaken our God, and have been servants unto the Baalim.
And the people sent unto Shiloh, and they brought the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who sitteth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, were there by the ark of the covenant of God.
who had no necessity daily, as the chief priests, first for his own sin, to offer sacrifice, and to them that were of the people; for this he did, having sacrificed himself.
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents; because they saw that he was a fair child, and they feared not the king's commandment.
And David sent the men with these words, and did not let them rise up against Saul: for Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And David said to Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me, and said unto me, Thus hath the king commanded me, saying, Do nothing to any man of the business which I send thee, and the charge which I have commanded thee: and there is a place appointed for the young men to go.
And they said, There must be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And Saul established his kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies round about against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the Philistines; and he smote them whithersoever he turned.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it; and he drew near unto the door of the tower, to burn it with fire.
And what shall I say yet? For the time would fail me, that I should tell of the things that I should say unto thee, that is, the days of David, and the son of Barachel, the son of Samuel, the son of Samuel, and the prophets.
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard that, they entered into the house of the god.
and prosper over thee, the Spirit of Jehovah; and thou hast prophesied with them, and art turned to another man.
but Christ as a son over his own house, whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence, and the joy of the hope in the end.
And David went thence, and came to the cave of Adullam; and his brethren heard, and all the house of his father, and went down unto him there.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came to the house of Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.
And David ran to the Philistine, and laid his foot upon him; and David took his sword out of his den, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that the men of war were dead, they fled.
And let your gentle conversation be manifest unto all men; for the Lord is nigh.
For if the blood of the goats or the oxen, and the ashes of a cow, be sprinkled on the unclean, make the flesh clean.
For the priesthood is changed; there is no necessity in the law.
And David again smote the land, and smote the land, until there was not a man, nor a woman: and he took the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the camels, and returned to them.
And David sware, and said, Thy father hath surely known that I have found grace in thine eyes, and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved; and yet, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth; but as a breach between me and death.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest wrath fall upon thee, and thou shalt lose thy life with the life of thy house.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together with their armies, and they gathered themselves together at nought, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Zalmonah and Azekah, at the time of Meribah.
Now therefore forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may serve Jehovah.
And if the man said unto him, They shall immediately burn the fat, and take as your soul desireth; he would say unto him, Nay; but if not, I will take by force.
For there is verily a disbreaking of the commandment that goeth before for the weak, and unhindered.
And the Amorites oppressed the children of Dan unto the mountains; and they suffered them not to go down into the valley.
Wherefore the high knees and the loosed knees set you up;
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Behold, women were taken away from us, as when I went out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, when it is a great journey: how much more do the things be holy?
And he was content, and abode with the man, and was unto him as one of his sons.
And Joshua said unto him, Oh, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where are all his marvellous works which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hand of the Midianites.
But if there is no unrighteousness, let fire come forth from him, and consume the inhabitants of Shechem, and the city of Debir; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and out of the city of Millo, and consume Abimelech.
And there was a highway between the way of the mountains by the way of the Philistines; and there was a sharp stone upon the one side, and a flint on the other side: the name of the one was altered, and the other was called.
so that he was ordained in all things to be made like his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the people.
not anxious, but in all things, by prayer and supplication, let your prayer be made known unto God.
and to those in Aroer, and unto the moth, and to Eshtemoa,
He shall put out the power of the fire, and escaped with the edge of the sword; and he shall be strong in weakness; and he shall be mighty in war, and he shall cause strangers to pass.
and in this place shall they not enter into my rest.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul there that day stood before Jehovah; and his name was called of Edom, the mighty men of Saul's messengers.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son in the law in the two.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Look, and see that is gone from us: and when they had sought, they found that Jonathan and his servants were not there.
And it came to pass, when he went forth, that his servants returned; and when they saw that the doors of the upper chamber were shut, they said, Surely he is trusting in the cold.
And they ran and fetched him thither; and when he stood among the people, he was above all the people from his shoulders and upward.
For he is not concerned with angels, but is concerned with the seed of Abraham.
Wherefore coming into the world he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou didst not call; but thou hast prepared me a body.
Jehovah redeemeth, and he maketh rich; He maketh low, he maketh low; yea, he maketh high.
And when Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he feared; and his heart trembleth greatly.
And Jotham fled, and fled, and went to Beer-sheba, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And when Abiathar the son of Chenaanah had fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Micah bare the Levites; and the young man was his priest, and he was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard with us, lest men be grieved upon thee, and thou hast gathered thy life, and the life of thy household.
And he said, Send me away, I pray thee, for our sacrifices are in the city, and my brother hath commanded me to be present. And if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go and see my brethren: therefore he cometh not to the king's table.
And she said unto the son of Barachel, Tell me, what is thy strength? what is thy strength, that thou shouldest bind thee?
And a man of Benjamin fled from the battle, and came to the same day unto Shiloh, and his clothes were rent and earth upon his head.
and another company went toward Beth-horon; and the other company turned toward the region that is over the valley of Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
For if the first covenant had been without blemish, then let no place be sought for the second.
Now in the morning Jonathan went forth into the field at the time appointed with David, and a child with him.
And Saul said, God will do unto me, and thou shalt surely die this day, Jonathan.
And Shammah the son called unto Jehovah, and said, Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, O God, that I may take one vengeance upon the Philistines for my two eyes.
And Samuel said, Though thou mayest seem little to thyself, art thou not head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah with the holy oil made thee king over Israel.
The valley of tents drew their carcases, the stream of the brooks, the stream of the brooks; Thou art my soul, upon the strong ones.
And after him was Abdon the son of Dodo, a Pirathonite, and he judged Israel.
For the law made nothing perfect; but the gift of a better hope wrought, by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And the carpenter dieth, and is buried in Bethlehem.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
For this cause I hope to send shortly, that I may shortly see how it shall go with me.
And smote the king, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped by the well of the valley; and the tents of the Midianites were on the left side of the valley of Moreh.
which was a sign for the present time, in which the gifts and the sacrifices were not able to perfect the Jews with respect to the conscience;
And it came to pass, when David was at Nob, unto Abimelech the priest, and Ahimelech came to meet David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and there are no men with thee?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they smote the Canaanites who dwelt in the field, and destroyed it; and they called the name of the city Hormah.
To whom did he swear that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that were disobedient?
And the men of the tribe of Judah said unto them, Why have ye come up against us? They said, We have come to bind up the son of Jonathan, and to pay him what he hath done against us.
Then David rose up, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
In that he saith the new, he hath made the old old, but that which is old and old is in the latter end.
And they ran and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was above all the people from his shoulder and upward.
And he said unto them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
Jesus Christ both yesterday and day and ever.
Whose voice then moved the earth; but now he saith, Yet once, and I will move not the earth, but the heaven also.
And the king said to the messengers that stood over him, Turn, and slay the priests of Jehovah; for their hand is with David; for they knew that he fled; and they told it not to me. And the servants of the king would not put forth their hands against the priests of Jehovah.
And now thou, O king, is better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab: wherefore did he strive with Israel? did he fight against them?
And the number of them that smote were three hundred men; and all the people fell upon their knees to drink water.
And when he saw that he was Jehovah's angel, he said, Alas, Lord Jehovah: for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
See that thou refuse him not that speaketh: for if they have escaped not, who have not refused him that spake upon the earth, much more shall we not, that turn away from him that speaketh unto us from heaven.
For there was the fear of death in every city, and the hand of God was exceeding heavy: and the men also that did not die were afflicted with the issue; and the cry of every city went up to heaven.
How much more if the people had eaten of the prey of their enemies, which they found? was there not a great slaughter among the Philistines?
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul!
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made desolate women, so shall thy mother be barren among women. And Samuel the son of Samuel smote him in Gilgal before Jehovah.
But Jonathan heard not when his father adjured the people; and he put forth the rod that he had in his hand, and plucked it in a honeycomb; and he carried his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
that thou hast put all things under his feet: for in subjection of all things he left nothing that was not subject to him: but now we see not all things under him,
And Joram the son of Jehoash went up from the host unto the ascent of Dagon.
And when they were come, David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, and the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul with timbrels, and with gladness, and with instruments of music.
having therefore therefore, brethren, bold to enter into the holy part by the blood of Jesus,
And the men of Beth Shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? to whom shall he go up from us?
And forsake not good and liberal; For God delighteth with such sacrifices.
And he said unto the men of Peniel, When I come again in peace, I will have this wall broken down.
God's name was a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah wrought great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it, and didst rejoice. Why then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, by killing David, who is without blame?
and thirty sons, and thirty asses, and thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which is called the Towns of Jair unto this day.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and set your eyes on those that walk, as ye have us for a pattern.
If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them up; come unto me, for there is peace unto thee, and there is no evil, as Jehovah liveth. But if I speak thus to the lad, behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go in peace, for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
and to those that were in Bethel, and to those that were in the south side of the South, and to the people of Jattir,
And the first smote that Jonathan, and the bearer of his weapons, was of twenty men, over half a stone in the field.
Now are thou nothing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? hath he fought against Israel, or hath he fought against them?
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Ah as Zebah and Zalmunna, concerning whom thou hast reproached me, saying, Is the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are weary?
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Turn, and slay the priests of Jehovah: for their hand also is with David; and they knew that he fled, and showed it not unto me: but the servants of the king would not put forth their hand upon the priests of Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, they said unto her, David sent us unto thee, to take thee to wife.
But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and remained in the rock of Rimmon four months.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand that is upon the seashore; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward of Bethaven.
And when they were come in, he saw Eliab, and said, Is Jehovah's anointed before him?
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred cakes, and two cups of wine, and five sheep prepared, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.
But the hair of his head began to grow up after he was shaven.
And Jehovah sent to destroy Baal, and Ziza, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies round about, that ye dwelt in safety.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel came not unto Jehovah to Mizpah? And it was seen that no one came from thence to the congregation.
For it was the elders that testified of,
And when he had shewed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man go, and all his family.
And Samuel told him all the words, and hid not from him: and he said, Jehovah, that which is good in his sight doeth he.
For the law, having a shadow of the good to come, shall not the same sacrifice of the things, nor the same sacrifice a year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect those that draw nigh.
Let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: If it be Jehovah that provoketh you against me, let him take an offering; but if it be the children of men, let them be accursed before Jehovah, because he hath driven me out to-day, and hath kept me from my place in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, be thou the servant of other gods.
And they went over unto the children of Ammon, to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
that I have sent him, that he may be happier, that when ye see him again, ye may be glad, and I may be sorrowful.
And they told him, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat flesh with the blood. And he said, Thou hast dealt treacherously: lay a great stone unto me this day.
And he spake also to the men of Peniel, saying, In my departing I will break down this tower.
And they sent and gathered together all the rulers of the Philistines, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried over to Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel there.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin in the sight of Israel; and the children of Israel smote that day five thousand men of Benjamin, and all the men of Israel.
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite, of the house of Judah, and I go to sojourn where I find.
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and laid an ambush in the brook.
And when the children of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and those that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
not according to the covenant which I made unto their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: because they did not keep my covenant: neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and they that were left were scattered, so that they were not left together.
And when they went out, the hand of Jehovah was upon them for evil, as Jehovah had sworn, and they were very hard.
And they sent messengers unto all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, Why is this abomination among you?
And David called unto the people, and unto Abner the son of Ner, saying, Art thou not Abner? And Abner answered, Who art thou called unto the king?
And when the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, they told the people, and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Go after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail.
She hath put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the hammer; and with the hammer she smote with Sisera, and with the hammer of his head; and she smote him, and smote him in his palaces.
that ye be not slothful, but as followers of them that by faith and patience have received the promises.
And the oil saith unto them, Have I ceased from my fatness, by which they honor gods and men, that I have walked through the trees?
And bands, and Sallai a fugitive, and discomfited them, and took them, and all their host was confounded.
but empty himself, and took a bondman's form, and took his place in form of men;
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines for a year and four months.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war; and Jehovah delivered the Ethiopians into his hand; and his hand prevailed against the Ethiopians.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed one is witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
And they made a line round the camp, every man in his place; and all the people rose up from sleep, and fled; and with a loud voice fled.
that even the first covenant was not made without blood.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go forth into the field. And they both went out into the field.
And oh that this people were in my hand, then I turned to Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy company, and come out.
Behold, brethren, lest there be in any one of you a wicked heart of disobedience, in turning away from living God.
And all Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba saw that Samuel was faithful as a prophet unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass in the days of Michal the daughter of Saul, that she should have been borne unto David, for the name of the daughter of Michal the Meholathite.
And I saw that thou wouldest not deliver us: I laid my life in jeopardy, and passed over to the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hand: why have ye come up to me this day to fight against me?
Now faith is the things which are waiting for, and the things which are not seen.
And Ephraim made not the Canaanite, who dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanite dwelt in Gezer with them.
Let us therefore fear lest a word be left of entering into his rest, that any one of you may seem to have failed.
And he said unto her, If they bind me, and bound me with new cords, I will be as weak as all men.
And Jonathan took his hand to his young son, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And let not my blood be poured out upon the earth from the presence of Jehovah: for the king of Israel hath come forth to take my life, as one goeth after the birds of the mountains.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
And there was a war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled before him.
And he said unto Zebah and Anammelech, What is the men whom ye slew at Tabor? And they said, They were like unto thee; every one of them had the appearance of the king's sons.
And Saul said unto his servants, Choose, I pray thee, a man, a man, and bring him to me.
And he went through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came in at the rising of the sun of Moab; and they encamped beyond the Arnon, and came not unto the border of Moab, for Arnon the border of Moab.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth; condemn not thee for this thing.
and say, To-day, if thou hear his voice, harden not your heart as in the gainsaying.
And they slew the ox, and brought the child to Heli.
And thou shalt say unto God, Thou shalt deliver Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal; and let us renew the kingdom there.
Is it not wheat to day? I will call upon Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; and ye shall know and see that ye have done great evil in the sight of Jehovah, in asking a king over you.
And David said, Shall the rulers of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall deliver thee.
and yet, Jehovah liveth, the God of Israel, who hath kept me from doing evil with thee; for if thou hadst hasted, and hast come to meet me, surely there had not been left to the man of Nabal the Carmelite till the light of them that sat upon the wall.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and rebel not against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king that reigneth over you, are the Lord your God.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah hath sent me to anoint thee king over his people Israel: now therefore hear thou unto the voice of Jehovah.
And it came to pass, that he rose early on the morrow, and pressed the wool, and loosed the dew from the fleece, the fulness of the water.
Cursed be the sign, saith the angel of Jehovah; curse, curse the inhabitants thereof: for they did not come to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and made it by Dagon.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I have looked after that which Amalek did unto Israel, that which he made for him in the way when he went up out of Egypt.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? give the men to us, that we may kill them.
And he answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And the Carmelite answered David's servants, and said, Who is David, the son of Jesse? There are many who break away from their masters these days.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah after the Philistines, and made slaughter of them, until they came in unto Beth Peor.
Now David was the son of the Ephrathah of Bethlehem, of Judah, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons: and he was an old man in the day of Saul, and far in years.
And the valley fled, and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off his thumbs and his great toes.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were grieved, because the people were grieved, they hid themselves in caves, and in the thick places, and in the rocks, and in holes, and in holes.
And all the masters of the tower of Shechem heard, and went in unto the high place of the house of the god.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth KirjathSepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I will not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day.
And why do ye harden your heart as the Egyptians, and Pharaoh hardened their heart? do they not, when he hath moved himself upon them, and send them away, and they go?
not every one of you that seek his own things, but every one of you to the things of others.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer; go up before me unto the high place; for thou shalt eat with me this day: and in the morning I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thine heart.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, and Beth Anath, but dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, and Beth Anath, became forced for them.
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine had gone out of the womb, that his wife spake unto him, and his heart died within him, and he became like a stone.
And all the men of Israel, who were hiding themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, heard that the Philistines had fled; and they pursued after them after them in battle.
These are the nations which Jehovah left, that by them he might instruct Israel, and all that knew not the war of the Canaanite.
And his father's father, the father of the young woman, shall abide with him three days; and they shall eat and drink, and lodge there.
And Malchijah was yet in the loins of his father, and Malchijah met him.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah; and Elkanah knew Uriah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And he said unto them, I am more righteous than the Philistines, though I do with them evil.
Now if there were established by the Levites the Levites ( for the people have received the law), what need shall there be for a priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, and not be called after Aaron?
Neither is any creeping thing in his sight; but all things are naked, and open to his eyes, to whom our speech is.
But Jonathan heard not when his father adjured the people; and he put forth his staff that was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were shining.
And they said unto Jehovah, Is there yet a man to come hither? And Jehovah said, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they asked, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
For this cause be in you also in Christ Jesus,
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before them, and said, This is the spoil of David.
Then Saul and his men went to seek him; and it was told David, and he went down to the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon; and Saul heard of it after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And this man went up from his city every year to worship and to make an offering to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And the princes of Gilead said to one another, Whosoever shall first fight against the children of Ammon, he shall be prince over the children of Gilead.
and let us consider one another, to provoke unto love and to good works:
receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor;
And it came to pass on that day that he was called Jerubbesheth, saying, Let Baal contend against him; for he had torn down his altar.
And Shechem went out before the people of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And Adam besought Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, let the man of God, whom thou hast sent to come again unto us, teach us what we should do to the child that shall be born.
And they sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What aileth me and thee, that thou hast come in unto me to fight in my land?
And the number of the days that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines and four months.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the place that was with it, in which the stones of gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt-offerings, and offered sacrifice the same day unto Jehovah.
even as the first tabernacle, and the ordinances of the earth, even the ordinances of the world,
And he set the lamps on fire, and let him run into the standing corn of the Philistines, and burned up the shock, and the standing corn, and the olive grove.
And Heber, the wife of Heber, took a hammer of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nails in his houses, and put it in the ground; for he was fast and weary, and died.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah, and I will pray Jehovah for you.
But more than that, I reckon all things to be lost in the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom I suffered the loss of all things, and consider them waste, that I may gain Christ.
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons. And when his wife's sons were grown up, they cast out the bark, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit the house of our father, for thou art the son of another.
And he drew forth his left hand, and took the sword from off his right shoulder, and thrust it into his belly.
And he built an altar unto Jehovah, and called it the name Jehovah. And it was unto this day, in the place of the house of the Rechabites.
And they were afflicted, and afflicted for eighteen years, all those that dwelt beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorite, who is in Gilead.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and the people as the sand that is upon the sea; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Bethaven.
And it came to pass, when he came to a place where the flocks were, that there was a hollow in the rock; and Saul went in for a secret. And David and his men were in the bottom of the hollow.
This is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that lieth with a man.
Of whom we have much to say, and hard to be interpreted; for ye are become dull in hearing.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which were taken from thee, whereof thou hast sworn and said in mine ears, I have given this silver to Jehovah out of my hand, to make a graven image and a molten image: behold, I have taken it, and I will give it again to thee. And his mother said, Blessed be Jehovah upon my son.
And the wall of Jericho came down, and they compassed the wall seven days.
And David said, O Jehovah God of Israel, thy servant hath heard that Saul sought to come to Keilah to destroy the city because of me.
And his father went down to the woman; and Jonathan the son made a feast there; for so the young men did.
And he did great things, and smote Amalek, and saved Israel from the hand of their enemies.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? what hath he done?
Hear, O kings; give ear, ye princes: I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed and thy vineyards, and give it to his princes, and to his servants.
And it came to pass, when a man came to inquire of God, that a man went to inquire of God, saying, Come, and let us go to the prophet; for he that is now called a prophet, was before a prophet.
And it came to pass, when the people came down to the waters, that Jehovah spake unto the waters, saying, They that smite the waters with their tongue, as the dogs do, thou shalt set apart; but they that shall drink their knees shall be on the other side.
And the son of Obed went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and all his army with him from the places of the ambush.
And Abimelech told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And she said unto her, Until when are thou drunken? turn away thy wine from thee.
And the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and all the children of the east, lay on the valley, as grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea.
Of love, knowing that I am the witness of the gospel.
and all the training for the present, not to be of joy, but of sorrow; but afterward the good fruits of righteousness to those that practise it, it shall yield.
And it came to pass, that there was a space from the house of Michmas, and the men that dwelt in the houses of Michmas gathered themselves together.
And Samuel was not to see him until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul; and Jehovah grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by the Lord, that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?
I persecuted the assembly with bitter hatred; I kept all the righteousness of the law unto the last.
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah would kill us, he would not have taken away from our hand the burnt-offering and the meal-offering, or showed us all these things, or now spake unto us these things.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest the spirit of the dead run upon you, and thou lose thy life, and the life of thy household.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel: and whosoever shall hear it, both his ears shall tingle.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And when David and his men came to the city, they saw that it was burned down, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
For men swear by the greater than themselves, and the oath for a sign is the end of them.
For the law is not taken about, and strange, for it is good that by grace the heart is confirmed, not with meats, in which they that were occupied were not profited.
And now arise early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and rise early in the morning, and when ye have day, depart.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
but the high priest went into the second, once a year, and not without sacrifice of blood for himself, and for the error of the people.
Therefore have I sworn unto the house of Eli, that no oblation of flesh, or of meat, which they may make shall henceforth take away the sin of his house.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter is Rebekah, she will I give thee to wife: only be a valiant man, and fight the battles of Jehovah. And Saul said within himself, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hands of the Philistines be upon him.
In thy going this day thou hast found two men by the sepulchre of Rachel, in the border of Benjamin, at Zilpah, and they said unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek; and, behold, thy father hath left the matter of the asses, and hath mourned for you, saying, What do I do for my son?
And he said unto them, See me, and do likewise; and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
who chose to be oppressed with the people of God, than to see the things that are made away for sin,
when he saw that he was longing after you all, and in heaviness, because ye heard that he was troubled,
And Saul was wroth with Jonathan, and said unto him, O thou son of a perverse, rebellious woman: do I not know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And David said unto him, Whom art thou of, and where art thou? And the young man said, I am an Egyptian, a servant of an Amalekite; but my master hath forsaken me three days ago.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until ye came to Gaza; and they left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
For he looked for the city having the foundation, And the work of the artificer, and the temple.
And now, behold, all ye children of Israel, make your counsel and your counsel come.
And she said unto Shammah, Behold, thou hast played upon me, and speakest unto me falsehood: now tell me, I pray thee, to me, wherewith thou art bound.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner begat Abner, was the son of Ezbai,
And most of the brethren in the Lord, taking heart in my chain, are all the stronger to give the word of God without fear.
and the proof of him ye know, that as a child a father, with me he ministered unto the gospel.
And David went and went forth from Saul to feed his father's flock at Bethlehem.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard it, and were afraid of the Philistines.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee; there is no Rock like our God.
And Micah bare the Levites; and the young man was his priest, and he was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, To-day is one tribe from Israel.
And he built Ariel there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it the Lord Jehovah: unto this day it is in the midst of the house of the Shilonite.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
And when David had ended speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
Why do ye provoke my sacrifices, and at my offering, which I commanded my habitation, and have respect thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat from the first part of all the offerings of Israel, of my people?
that the children of Israel might know the war, to teach those that had not known it before,
For thy throne shall be desolate until the morrow; and thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place, where thou mayest be hid in the day when it is lawful to work; and thou shalt remain by the stone, which is called the mourning.
Her sister also afflicted her, and troubled her exceedingly, so that she made her stand up, that Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the men of the city spake unto him on the seventh day, before the sun went in, and said, What is better than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, Except ye had plowed with my heifer, ye have not found my riddle.
And the name of his first son was Joel, and the name of his second Abijah: and they were judges in Beersheba.
but he, for ever, hath the priesthood not changed.
Go and call upon the gods which thou hast chosen; Let them deliver thee in the time of trouble.
For unto you it is given in the cause of Christ not only to believe in him, but to suffer for his sakes.
Behold, I pray thee, as precious in my sight this day, let my life be great in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all trouble.
Now Samuel did not know Jehovah, nor the word of Jehovah was revealed unto him.
And the children of Israel served Eglon, for eighteen years.
Only that the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least as before before,
And David trusted David, saying, He hath made himself utterly hated among his people in Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the bread, and the fire came up out of the rock, burning up the flesh and the bread; and the angel of Jehovah was seen no more.
And it was right for this man to have more honor than Moses, even as the building of a house is greater than the house.
and forgive the sin of thy servant; for Jehovah will surely make thy house strong, because my lord is fighting in the battle of Jehovah; and no evil shall be seen in thee all thy days.
And Maachah the wife of Ishmael was given to him that was his friend.
And I will come out with Sisera, and the captain of the army of Jabin, with his chariots and with his army, unto the brook of Kiing-; and I will give him into thy hand.
And the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet, and my good fruit, and go to wave again and forth over the trees?
The mountains also moved before Jehovah, even Sinai before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under the hill country.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered in that day, out of the cities twenty and six thousand men of war, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
And Saul said unto his servants, Bring me now a man that can play, and bring him to me.
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah, when Memucan was dead.
And the man of thine handmaid will not cut off from mine altar; he shall cause thine eyes to fail and grieve thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die in their strength.
And of the children of Dan, Zorah and Eshtaol, having armed with war, set out from thence.
In the days of Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, in the days of Jai, The highways were empty: for the travelers walked by the way.
And Moses was born three months in his father's womb three months, because they saw the child fair; and they were not afraid of the law.
And Saul cast his spear upon him to smite him; and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to put David to death.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail for his sake: thy servant shall go and fight against the Philistines.
And now, as they have said unto me, that Saul cometh? O Jehovah, God of Israel, hearken unto thy servant, and say, If these things are so. And Jehovah said, He cometh down.
And Jehovah will reward every one according to his righteousness and according to his faithfulness: for Jehovah hath delivered thee this day into my hand, and I will not put forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And the trees say to the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And Saul heard that David was seen, and the men that were with him. Now Saul tarried in Gibeah, and was in the wood, which is by Ramah, having his spear in his hand; and all his servants stood upon him.
And she fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, be the fault: let thy servant speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy servant.
And the king said, Ask now, whose son the young man is.
who, being in the likeness of God, thought not spoiled to God,
And there said unto her, Stand before the door of the tent, and when any shall come and inquire of thee, say, Is there any man here? thou shalt say, There is none.
And when he had heard these things, he sent other men, who were also like prophets: and the third time Saul sent men, and they were like prophets.
This was so, that when he turned his back from Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all these things were that same day.
having been filled with the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.
And he said unto him, Far be it from me: thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall do nothing great or small, and I will not be healed; and why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Jakeh, the son of Zerahiah, the son of Allon, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
And if I live, thou shalt shew me the kindness of Jehovah: but if I die,
For we have no city abiding, but we seek one to come.
by professing that God is able to raise up even from the dead. And so he received a parable.
And the king said unto her, Fear not, what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
And his concubine was wroth with him, and went away from him to the house of her father in Bethlehem, and was there four months.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and David prospered over David from that day and thenceforth; and Samuel rose and went to Ramah.
And when the Spirit of God was upon Saul, David took the harp, and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
And Shammah the son went and took three hundred foxes, and took torches, and turned the tail to the tail, and put a lamp between the two tails in the midst.
And Abigail went quickly, and took two hundred cakes, and two cups of wine, and five sheep, and five measures of roasted corn, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred clusters of figs, and set on the asses.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines looked, and saw David, and he despised him, for he was a child, and tender, with a goodly countenance.
And it came to pass, that, when he had waited, he obtained the promise.
And Abigail came to the Carmelite; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, as the feast of a king; and the heart of Nabal was merry within him; for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
And now, take heed, I pray thee, and drink not wine, and strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing;
There is also a place that is set aside by the former commandment, because of the weakness, and of the hardness thereof.
And the priest answered David, saying, I have no bread at hand, but only holy bread: if the young men be clean, especially of women?
And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
And they said, What is the trespass offering that we should return unto him? And they said, The number of the princes of the Philistines is five; therefore send thou five gold, and five of gold, and five of them, because one plague was upon all of thee, and all thy princes.
For I know that this shall fall to me for salvation, by your supplication, and by the Spirit of Christ Jesus;
And thou shalt say, Peace be unto my brethren, and to thee, and peace to thy house, and peace to all that thou hast.
and they cry unto Jehovah, and say, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we serve thee.
and the peace of God, which is deeper than all knowledge, shall keep your heart and mind in Christ Jesus.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste, and come; for the Philistines have overthrown the land.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of barley, and these ten loaves, and run unto the camp of thy brethren.
And he said, Where have thou fought this day? And David said, Concerning the south of Judah, and the south of the father of Jerahmeel, and the south of the Kenites.
not in strife, nor in glory, but in meekness of mind one another more than yourselves.
And Saul took him on that day, and suffered him not to return to the house of his father.
And it came to pass, when thou comest to pass, that a man had a dream unto his friend, and he said, Behold, I had a dream: a cake of barley bread was taken into the camp of Midian, and it smote it, and it fell, and it fell, and turned it upside down, that the tent fell.
And the uncle of Saul said unto him, Whence goest thou? And he said, Go and search for the asses; and when we saw none, we went to Samuel.
And the priest gave him the holy bread; for there was no bread there except the bread of the presence, which was removed from before Jehovah, to set bread there on the day when it was taken away.
And Caleb said, Whosoever smiteth KirjathSepher and taketh it, I will give him Achsah my daughter as a wife.
And the princes of the Philistines had gathered to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; and they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy into our hand.
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou, mighty man of valour.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak which was in the midst of Ophrah, which was to Joash the son of Hammelech, and smote his son with wheat in the winepress, to remove from the presence of the Midianites.
And the Levite hearkened to the man, and the young man became as one of his sons.
For if the word spoken by angels was faithful, and every transgression and transgression received a righteous reward,
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, with officers and ministers;
And divers things were made of divers colours, and righteousness of the flesh laid upon them till the time of correction.
And it came to pass at the time when the daughter of Michal the daughter of Saul was given unto David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
And Samuel died; and all the children of Israel were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in Ramah in Ramah. And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And Japhlet gathered together all the men of Gilead, and he made war with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Thou art escaped of Ephraim, O Gilead, in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And they went up into the city; and when they were walking in the midst of the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, to go up to the high place.
And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
and if to live in the flesh, this is to me the fruit of labour; and what I shall choose I know not.
and there was an image for the present time, according to the present time and for the sacrifice, that it should not be perfect as to the conscience of him that worshipped;
And the people sent unto Shiloh, and brought the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who sitteth between the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they smote the Canaanites that dwelt therein, and utterly destroyed it: and the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Thou seest that I have heard all that thou hast said unto me, and hast made a king over thee.
And master made him a sword, which had two corners, one cubit long; and he girded it under his garments upon his right thigh.
And he took all the flocks and the cattle, and made them go before him; and they said, This is the spoil of David.
For this man I prayed, and Jehovah gave me my request which I asked of him.
And I will remember no more their sins, and their doings, and their doings.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to take him by the hand of Zareah, and in the valley of Sharon.
And he said, My brethren, ye are my mother's children: Jehovah liveth, if ye had kept them alive, I had not slain thee.
And he said unto all Israel, Thou art on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And they said unto Saul, Do what pleaseth thee.
And the king said, Ask now, whose son this man is.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, saying, Why shall he die? what hath he done?
For the law maketh men high priests that have infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was by the law, maketh the Son, who is sanctified for evermore.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And in this place again, if they enter into my rest.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
And they went up into the ascent of the city, and found young women going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is this the prophet?
And David said unto Job, Wherefore knowest thou that which thy servant doeth? And he said unto David, Wherefore I will appoint thee all the days.
and Midian and Amalek; and all the children of the east shall lie in the valley, as the cankerworm for multitude, and of their camels as the sand upon the seashore.
And he shall take thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, and give them to his servants.
And David besought Jehovah again; and Jehovah answered, Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
For he made not the angels over the world to come, whereof I write.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him a king.
And it shall come to pass, when he saith, He hath made a new covenant, and hath made the first covenant; but that which is long, and that which is past, shall be no more seen.
And I sware, saying, They shall not come into my rest.
Even though I also have confidence in the flesh, if any man think that he hath to trust in the flesh, I am more:
It is no more my pleasure for Saul to be king: for he hath turned back from following my ways, and hath not obeyed my commandments. And Samuel was very sad, crying unto Jehovah all night.
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he fled; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, even Zebah and Zalmunna, and put all the host to the curse.
And as Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines went out to battle against Israel. And Jehovah thundered with a great thunder that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were routed before Israel.
and we set our eyes upon him, the beginning of faith, and of faith, who for the joy that was set before him, to suffer the cross, and sat down at the right hand of God.
And so he used to do the year after year: and when she went up into the house of Jehovah, she provoked her, and she wept, and would not eat.
then thou shalt say unto him, Long life unto thee, and let it go well with thee, with thy house, and with all that is thine.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring up Samuel for me.
I beseech thee, I pray thee, the chief of the Lord, I beseech thee, that I may be in the midst of the Lord.
And the children of Israel went out the next day to fight against the children of Benjamin.
And they smote Benjamin, and went after them, and drove them from the midst of the Nohah, even unto the east side of Gibeah.
so then, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth; for Jehovah hath restrained thee from the blood of blood by taking things into thine hand; then let thine enemies be as the sinner, even those that seek my lord hurt.
And when Saul saw David coming out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner, whose son is this young man, whose son is this young? And Abner said, I have no idea.
And he went and took three hundred foxes, and coupled them the tail to the tail, and fastened torches between the tails.
And the heart of David smote him, because he had cut off the hem of Saul.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and save Israel out of the hand of Midian: have I not sent thee?
And he came to Succoth, and said unto them, Behold, I pray thee, I pray thee, of whom thou hast dealt with me, saying, I pray thee, I pray thee, I pray thee, the hand of the king of Israel, for the hand of the Lord is mine.
And the song came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the mount of Paran, which is before the wilderness?
And the king of the children of Ammon answered the messengers of Imnah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon unto Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore restore the land again.
And a man of Benjamin fled out of the camp, and came to Shiloh the same day with his garments rent, and dirt upon his head.
And David went out unto all that he had sent him, and his heart was with him; and Saul set him over the soldiers, and he was pleased in the sight of all the people, and specially in the sight of Saul's servants.
And Micah said unto him, Abide with me, and be to me a father, and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver for every year, and a suit of raiment, and thy food. And the Levites went in.
And Abimelech the son of Jeroham went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and spake unto them, and to all the kindred of his mother's father, saying,
and thou shalt deliver the men of Gibeah, that have committed this evil thing, that they may die, and the evil may be taken away out of Israel: but they would not hearken unto the light of their brethren the children of Israel.
And he said unto God, If thou art the Saviour of Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken,
And now hearken unto their voice; for thou shalt surely reprove them, and hast told them the manner of the king that reigneth over them.
And it came to pass after him, that he judged the children of Heth, and he judged Israel ten years.
and the handle went in after the blade, and the fat closed upon the sickle; for he drew not the sword out of his body; and it came out behind.
Arise early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that are with thee, and go unto the place which I have given thee, and have no evil device in thine heart, for thou art good in mine eyes; but when there is light enough in the morning, go away.
I know also how to be abased, and I know how to abound, and in all things, and in all things, to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer.
And Saul took his clothes, and put on other garments, and went with two of his men; and they came to the woman by night, and said, Ask me a spirit in the dungeon, and bring up for me the man whom I tell thee.
And the war was sore against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and Saul saw a mighty man, and a mighty man, and he gathered him to himself.
And Abimelech with his band made haste, and rose up at the entrance of the gate; and the other two bands beat upon all that were in the field, and smote them.
And Saul was called, and all the people that were with him, and they came in unto the battle; and, behold, the sword of every one was against his neighbour, a very great destruction.
And he said, What is the word that he spake unto thee? hide thou it not from me, that thou mayest not hide from me all the words that he hath spoken unto thee.
And this I pray, that thy love may abound more and more in full knowledge and all understanding;
And it came to pass, when the princes of the children of Reuben, behold, the children of Issachar, Deborah, that went out into the valley, marching out at his feet: and there were divisions in the land of Reuben, and of great colours.
and to those that were in Sepharad, and to the cities of Jerahmeel, and to the cities of the Kenites,
Every one that despiseth his law dieth without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and made it unto Dagon.
Let a wife be honoured among all, and let the bed be perfect; but God shall judge the whoremongers and the adulterers.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner, whose son is he, whose son is this young? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, I can not tell thee.
And he consulted with Jehovah, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Gittite.
For they thought to cut them off, as they did before; but they went to flight, to draw them away out of the city, and to flee to the highways.
And when the Philistines looked, and saw David, he despised him; for he was but a youth, and tender, and had a good countenance.
And he said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines rose, and came and came to meet David, that David hasted, and ran to the host to meet the Philistines.
if he be able to fight with me, and have smitten me, then we have been unto thee for servants; and if I be able to help him, and have smitten him, then thou hast been unto us for servants, and have served us.
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Arise, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength; and as for Zebah, and for Zebah, and for Zalmunna, and put away the ornaments of their camels.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as through the dry land; and the Egyptians were swallowed up.
By faith did Rahab the harlot perish not with the unbelievers, receiving the spies with peace.
And Samuel sent the people together before Jehovah at Mizpah.
Now I know that God will do me good, for I have a priest of the Levites.
that by them will I try Israel, to see whether they will keep the way of Jehovah, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And David said, What have I done now? was it not only a word?
Let not my lord hearken unto the man of Nabal, the sinner: for as his name is, so is he, a man without understanding: but thy servant did not see the young men whom my lord sent.
And the men of Ephraim were called together, and passed over the north side, and said unto the Arkite, Why hast thou passed over against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And Memucan came to him, and he sat in the cool of the upper chamber, which was for him alone. And Esther said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from the throne.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into our hand, and gave them a place at the head of them that were invited; for there were about thirty men.
and all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and if ye rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as against your fathers.
And there went out a mighty man out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And Husham went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnath-serah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
And Saul and all the people that were with him gathered together, and came up to the battle, and behold, the sword of the Philistines was against his friend; and there was a very great tumult.
for we have not here a abiding city, but the coming one we seek.
Why then didst thou not obey the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly upon the spoil, and did evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There is not a razor upon my head; for I am a separate man unto God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength shall depart from me, and I shall be weak, and be like one other man.
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of the valley, but they found them not; and they passed through the land of Elim, and there they were not; and he passed through the land of Benjamin, but they found them not.
praying for us; for we persuade ourselves, that we have a good conscience in all things, to walk in the way.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what shall thy father answer thee roughly?
Blessed is the most of women, and the wife of Heber the Kenites: Happy is she of the daughters of tents.
Because of the voice of them that divide the spoil in the midst of the waters, there they recount the righteous acts of Jehovah, and his righteousness toward his daughters in Israel; and the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And he took it in his hand, and ate, and came to his father and mother, and gave them, and they did eat: but he said not that he had taken the honey out of the dead's dead.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And the bands of the Philistines came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one went to the way that leadeth to Ophrah, to the land of Bilhah.
Moreover, I sware unto Jehovah, saying, If thou wilt not fail to give the children of Ammon into my hand,
But the people would not hear the voice of Samuel, and said, Nay; but there shall be a king over us.
And he answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my eyes, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us into the battle.
And he departed from thence, and went to the inhabitants of Debir, the ancient name of Arba, which is the city of letters.
This is the good covenant which we have through Jesus.
Now therefore let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: If Jehovah hath moved thee against me, let him delight in an offering; but if it be men, let them be anathema before Jehovah: for they have driven me away to-day from the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And there arose after Abimelech to save Israel: Tola the son of Jvah, the son of Dodo, a Benjamite; and he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And he said, Upon whom hast thou smitten this day? And David said, Concerning the south of Judah, and against the south of the sons of Jerahmeel, and against the south of the Kenites.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the temple with the golden, and the molten images.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me whatsoever thou hast promised; for the victory is given to thee, and avenge thine enemies.
And he sent, and brought him in. And he was white, with a fair face and a fair face; and Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he.
And they found out of the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred young women, virgins, who had not known man by the lying of a male; and they brought them in unto the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And they said unto them, If ye come to me with truth, that I should fight for you against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah will deliver them into my band, shall I be your prince?
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armor.
Let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; But let them that love thee shine, as the sun shineth in his rising.
Therefore I sware in mine anger, If they enter into my rest.
And as thy life is unto me this day, let my life be unto Jehovah, and redeem me from all my troubles.
And the Philistines were humbled, and increased no more to come into the border of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah was upon the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah for Midian,
And he said unto him, Behold now, a man of God is in this city, and the man is glorified: all that he saith cometh, let us now go thither; perhaps he will show us the way that we should go.
And thou shalt say unto God, Thou shalt not be angry with me, if I say this: Let me make a difference with the wool, and let the wool be dried up, and the earth be covered with dew.
but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a furious wrath, that shall consume the adversaries.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was in great trouble, and said unto him, Behold now, thy servant hath heard thy words, and I have put my life in jeopardy, according to thy word.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah for Midian.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into a chamber in the building, and gave them a place at the head of the guests; and there were about thirty men.
And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou forsaken the flock in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the imagination of thine heart, for thou art come down to see the battle.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the ark that was in them, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offerings, and worshipped that day before Jehovah.
And the olive tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith they honor God and man, and go to be exalted over the trees?
When David heard that the dead was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath sought the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil: Jehovah hath brought back the evil of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and spake concerning Abigail, to take her to himself as wife.
for all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
And her husband arose, and went after her, and spake kindly unto her, and took her with him; and he had with him his young man and two asses; and she brought him into her father's house; and her father, when he saw him, came forth to him with joy.
And there was trembling in the camp, and in the field, and among all the people; and the armed men, and the horsemen, trembled, and the earth trembled; for it was a fear of God.
For by faith also did Sarah have power to conceive seed; and she bare after the time of life, when she justified him that had sworn.
And all the children of Israel went out, and the assembly was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, O David my son: for thou shalt do valiantly, and shalt surely prevail. And David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And he said, There is seventy kings, and their thumbs, and their great toes, and they glean under my table: as I have done, so God hath recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
And Japhlet passed over unto the children of Ammon, to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
Ask ye thy young men, and they will tell thee; and let the young men find favour in thine eyes, for we come on a good day: give to thy hand, and to thy servants, and to thy son David.
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines a full year and four months.
What ye have heard and received, and heard, and seen in me, these things do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
And he also stripped off his clothes, and prophesied, himself also, before Samuel, and lay naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
and he went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents, on the east side, and over the camp, and smote the camp of the enemies, who were secure, and did not know any harm.
that ye also rejoice and rejoice with me.
And Saul saw that he prospered well; and he feared him.
And now what is under thy hand? give me five loaves in my hand, or what may be found.
that my prison might be made known in the whole hall, and all the rest,
This shall not be an occasion of grief unto thee, and a veil of heart to my lord, that thou hast shed innocent blood, or hast avenged thyself; and when Jehovah shall have done well by my lord, thou shalt remember thy handmaid.
And the evil spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, and he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was girded with a harp in his hand.
And it was for them that were at Bethel: for they were the cities of Ramoth in the South, and Jattir;
to the congregation, and to the assembly of the firstborn in the heaven, and to God the judge of all; and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect;
But I have received all things in abundance, and have abundance; and I am well abundantly, because I have received from the hand of the man of his seed the sweet things which thou hast sent, a sweet savour, a sweet sacrifice, sweet to God.
And he was thirsty; and he called unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast delivered this great victory into the hand of thy servant; but now shall I die, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
And the things which thou hast learned, and receive, and have heard, and seen in me, do these things; and the God of peace shall be with you.
Therefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees,
And when he had told him, he went and stood upon the top of the mount, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hear you.
and he shall smite into the pan, or in the pot, or in the cauldron, or in the cauldron; and all that the issue bringeth up the priest shall take for himself; thus shall they do unto all Israel that come in unto Shiloh.
If therefore be any exhortation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any of the Spirit be of the Spirit, if there be any compassion and compassion,
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die; lest he go into the battle, and perish.
holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I run not in vain, neither laboured in vain.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and Ashtaroth.
and thou shalt hear what they say; and afterwards thy hand shall be strong, and thou shalt go down unto the camp. And he went down with his servant, his servant, unto the outside of the armed men that were in the camp.
Now Saul was in the hill of Siddim, which is over the desert by the way; but David tarried in the wilderness; and when he saw that Saul had come into the wilderness after him,
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Enluck him, and see in the greatness of his strength, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him against him, and we will give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And Saul said unto them, Bring the ark of Jehovah: for there was the ark of God there with the children of Israel.
And the princes of the Philistines said unto him, What mean these Hebrews? and he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Do ye not know David, who was the servant of Saul the king of Israel, and hath been with me many days, or years, and I have found no fault in him, since the day that he fled unto me unto this day?
And it came to pass, when he had come to his house, that he took his knife, and took the woman, and cut her up with a piece of blood, and sent through all Israel.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the tower that was with it, in which were the golden stones, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Bethshemesh offered up burnt-offerings, and offered sacrifice the same day unto Jehovah.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good. Do ye stand still? be not slothful to go in to possess the land.
And three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock, and said to Shammah son, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are princes over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And Jonathan said unto David, Whatever thy soul desireth, I will do for thee.
And the blood was put upon the tabernacle, and upon all the holy vessels.
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit upon my right hand, until I make thy enemies thy footstool?
who were left with him, that he should send a stone upon a head without error.
But the man was not left there that night; and he arose, and went away, and came to Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and he had with him the two asses, ready for his journey, and his woman.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And now hearken unto their voice; only testify unto them, and tell them the way of the king that shall reign over them.
And they smote and smote the children of Israel in that year eighteen years, all the children of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which in Gilead.
My heart hath rejoiced in Jehovah, And my horn is exalted in my God; My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; For I have rejoiced in thy salvation.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: for they kept not in my covenant, and I hid them, saith Jehovah.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man? and who is like thee in Israel? why then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to kill the king thy lord.
And they said, Thou hast not stolen us, nor hurt us; neither hast thou taken any man's hand.
And Samuel executed Israel all the days of his life.
But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a saviour for them, and Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left hand, and the children of Israel sent presents by him unto Eglon to Eglon.
call ye Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will shew thee what thou shalt do: thou shalt anoint me upon whom I name thee.
And she made a vow, saying, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt see the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, and give to thy servant a man, I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head.
And Saul returned, and followed not after the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their own place.
And David took also a thousand of Jezreel, and they were both of them.
And there was a man of Ramah in the hill-country of Ephraim, and Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Ahitub, the son of Toah, and the prophet.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and went down from the ass, and fell upon her face before David, and bowed himself to the ground.
As to the thing which we have spoken, I and thee, behold, Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel smote the children of Benjamin that day five thousand and five hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And Saul sent messengers to deliver him: but she said, He is sick.
and he shall take them, that he may appoint for himself captains over thousands, and captains over fifties, and that they may plow his ground, and gather his harvest, and make his instruments of war, and his weapons of war.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for I hear of your wickedness from all this people.
and tidings was given to him that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hands: for he hath entered into a fortified city with the doors, and hath let himself be shut in.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron, and the ark of God came to Ekron, saying, They have sent the ark of the God of Israel unto us for the destruction of us and our people.
And they passed from thence to mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
by faith Abraham, when he was called to go forth into a place that he should receive for inheritance: and he went out, and did not know where he went.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them in like manner. And the men of Penuel answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered.
And David knew that Saul was in secret in secret against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
For they have not ceased to be offered; because of them they have no more good conscience of sins, having been cleansed.
Woe unto the dog, against the workers of iniquity, against the workers of circumcision:
And they said unto the messengers that had come, Thus shalt thou say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, Tomorrow ye shall be saved, when the sun is hot. And the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh, and they rejoiced.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by the Urim, nor by the prophets.
and to those that were in Hormah, and unto those that were in war, and unto those that were in war,
Saul was thirty years old when he began to reign; and he reigned over Israel forty years.
And Manasseh possessed not Beth-shean, and her towns, and Taanach, and her towns, and the inhabitants of Dor, and the inhabitants thereof, and the inhabitants of Ibleam, and the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the inhabitants thereof; and the Canaanites dwelt in that land.
And Saul dwelt at the end of Gibeah, under the cluster of the pomegranates; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
And the Holy Spirit testifieth unto us, saying,
And they said unto him, We are come to bind thee, and to deliver thee into the hands of the Philistines. And he said unto them, Swear unto me, and swear me, that thou wilt not kill me.
Jehovah killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Meraiah, and Phinehas, were slain.
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I should go quickly to the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall faint from me to seek me again in all the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken again of another day.
And Moses believed not to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage.
But Jonathan the son of Saul rejoiced greatly in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee; and now, I pray thee, take heed to thyself in the morning, and tarry in a secret place, and hide thyself.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what have I been able to do as thou? And their spirit was turned away from him in his speaking.
Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and the flesh of my herds, which I have slain for my shearers, and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
And it came to pass, when he had finished offering the burnt-offering, that, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines went on, and waxed great; and Saul said unto the priest, Take away thy hand.
And all the trees said to the thorn-bush, Thou art lord over us.
And Samuel told him, and hid nothing from him, saying, It is Jehovah; let him do that which pleaseth him.
And David said, What is the portion of this man's portion in the wilderness, that there was no loss of anything that was his? for he hath rewarded me evil for good.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
But I will not take away a man from off my altar; but that thy eyes may faint, and thy soul be spent: and a great part of thy house shall die when they come to man's estate.
And they gave him part of a cake of figs, and some dry grapes; and after the meat, his spirit returned to him; for he had neither bread nor thirst for three days and for three nights.
And Memucan sent again unto the king of the children of Ammon.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me, and blessed be thy speech.
that we have been sanctified by the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for ever and ever.
And when they saw David, they said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not sing unto him in their dance, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And David rose up after him, and went out from the cave after Saul, saying, My lord the king; and Saul looked behind him. And David bowed himself to the ground, and worshipped.
Now therefore let not my blood fall to the earth before Jehovah: for the king of Israel is come out to search a gnat, as when the partridge taketh a bird in the mountains.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ephraim were called, and they passed over to the north, and said unto them, Why hast thou passed over, and fight against the children of Ammon, and why hast thou not called us to go with thee? and we will burn thy house over you with fire.
And if thy father be surety for me, then thou shalt say, I pray thee, let David go out from me, that he may run to Bethlehem his city; for there is a year offering for all the house.
And one answering said, Who is their father? So it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as before.
As it is said, To-day if thou wilt hear his voice, be not grieved, as when thou provoked him to anger.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David; and they gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water.
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to bring tidings unto the house of their idols, and to the people.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him; and not one of his words fell to the ground.
and not in order that he may offer himself many times, as the high priest shall enter into the sanctuary year by year with blood,
And he shall tithe thy seed and thy vineyards, and give to his eunuchs, and to his servants.
For ye both comfort yourselves with captives, and gladly receive the spoil of your goods, knowing that ye have for yourselves a better substance, and a living one.
And it came to pass after that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the hem of Saul's coat.
for he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistines; and Jehovah wrought a great victory for all Israel; and ye saw it and rejoiced: wherefore then shall ye sin against innocent blood, to slay David without cause?
And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, go down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for thou hast shewn kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of Abigail his wife: the woman was prudent, and had a fair countenance: but the man was corrupt and evil in his doings. He was of the house of Caleb.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David stand before me, for he hath found grace in my sight.
When I blow the trumpet, I and all that are with me, blow the trumpets also round about all the camp, and cry, For Jehovah, and for the house of Israel.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah; and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they feared the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto him, What hast thou done? Saul answered, Because I saw that the people were moved from me, and thou camest not according to the days appointed; and the Philistines were gathered together in Michmash,
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
For we desire that every one of you may shew the diligence of the fulness of the hope, even unto the end;
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Micah.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins, who had not slept with a man, and brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And the Lord spake, and spake, and came to him, and said, Here am I, for thou hast spoken my name. But he answered, I said nothing, my son; go to thy rest.
And the king of Samuel said, Bring near to me the king of Amalek, the king of Agag: and he said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
And there was a certain Levite, who dwelt on the side of Ephraim, who took a wife of Bethlehem in Judah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and he delivered them into the hands of the Philistines forty years.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And he rose up early in the morning, and the fifth day went, and the father of the damsel said, Hold thy heart, I pray thee, thy heart. And they tarried until the day of the day, and they ate.
For this cause he is the mediator of a new covenant, since the death of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, that they that were called shall receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
and go forth into the field, and gather their vineyards, and tread, and make music, and go into the house of their god, and eat and drink, and curse Abimelech.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us that which seemeth good unto thee: save us therefore, O day.
Now therefore if thou hast any thing at hand, if it were but five loaves, give me, or whatsoever thou canst find.
and now thou art risen up against my father's house, and have slain his sons seventy men upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the inhabitants of Shechem, because he is thy brother:
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will pass over unto the men, and we will shew ourselves unto them.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I have passed over the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I have feared the people, and I also hear their voice.
But a certain fearful seeketh for judgment, and a furious zeal, to devour the adversaries thereof;
Fear not; for the hand of Saul shall not find thee; and thou shalt reign over Israel, and I will be in thee; yea, and my father knoweth this.
And they made a covenant before Jehovah, and David dwelt in the forest; and Jonathan went into his house.
For such a high priest did become us, and fair, and undefiled, and separated from sinners, and became high above the heavens;
If ye shall fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken to his voice, and do not provoke the mouth of Jehovah, then shall ye, and the king that reigneth over you, be imitators of Jehovah your God.
And the concubine of Shechem bare a son by him, to whom he called the name of Abimelech.
And the men of Israel had sworn at Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin to wife.
Wherefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, I said, Thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me for ever: but now Jehovah saith, Be thou far from me; for they that honor me will I honor, and they that hate me shall be despised.
And Jehovah said unto him that night, Take thy father's ox, and the second bullock seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is therein.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
That we may say, Jehovah is my help; I will not fear what man doeth unto me.
and say, To-day if thou wilt hear his voice, harden not your heart, as in the gainsaying.
And he went to the house of his father in Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, which were threescore and ten, upon one stone; yet he left the youngest, but he hid himself.
And they forsook Jehovah the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt; and they followed strange gods, and the gods of the people that dwelt round about them, and worshipped them; and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
For God is my witness, how I long after you all in Christ Jesus.
For in that wherein he himself suffered, and was tempted, he is able to help them also that are tempted.
not leaving the assembling of ourselves, as a custom of some, but exhorting, and so much as ye see the day coming nigh.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan; and Saul swore, as Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
And Jonathan answered Saul, and said, David besought me to Bethlehem.
And he said, Behold, I come to do thy pleasure: he took away the old order, that he might put the new order in its place.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Gittite.
And Ehud fled, while they tarried a long time; and he passed by the image of stone, and escaped to the pit.
And he said unto him, Where is thy cry, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should be his servants? Is this not the people whom thou wast smitten? go forth now, and fight against them.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it to Ashdod, to Ashdod.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hands of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
And the man said unto him, Let the fat be burned first, and then take as much as thine soul desireth. Then he would say, Nay; but thou shalt give it to me now; and if not, I will take it by force.
And David said unto Abimelech, Is there not in thy hand a spear or a sword in thy hand? for I took neither my sword nor my weapon with me, for the matter was urgent.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and they took up thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who dwelt in the cherubim, and there were two sons of Eli, with the ark of the covenant of God, the chief of the covenant, and the chief of Phinehas.
And it came to pass, when he wrote the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne backward, by the side of the gate, and his neck rent, and he died, for he was old and heavy; and he judged Israel forty years.
And she laid it before Saul and his servants, and they ate bread; and they arose, and went away the same night.
And as it is said, Levi, who received tithes, gave a tenth of Abraham.
And it came to pass, when his servants spake these words to David, that he was well pleased to be the son-in-law of the king, and the days were not past.
And the angel of Jehovah came, and sat under the oak that was in the midst of the city; and he took the threshing-floor in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites.
And as he had endured, he obtained the promise.
For he of whom these things are said shall be for another tribe, whereof no man served at the altar.
And David went from there, and came to the cave of Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's house heard, they came down to him there.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass after they went forth, that David was wiser than all the servants of Saul; and his name was very great.
Go not away, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and lay it before thee. And he said, I will wait till thou come back.
For ye come not unto the mountain that should be touched, and that burn with fire, nor unto darkness, and darkness, and tempest,
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, and Shammah the son. And he awoke from his sleep, and said, I will go forth as at another time before, and I will shake myself. And he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
and the gold also, according to the number of the cities of the Philistines, of the five provinces, even of the fortified city unto the city that was without wall, and unto the great image of Abel the stone, whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, that day in the field of Jeshua the Gittite.
And they went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head, and captain over them; and they wrote all his words before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And he went up thither to Penuel, and spake unto them in the same way; and the men of Penuel answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered.
And one of the servants told Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness, to salute our master, and he abhorred them.
Nevertheless thou hast dealt well with me in my affliction.
Again he awaketh a day, saying in David, To day long ago, as it is time, said, To day shalt thou hear his voice, harden not your heart.
so that the Christ also was offered to bear the sins of many, a second time, apart from a sin-offering, to those waiting for him to be saved.
As for the children of Zebulun, and for the children of Naphtali, they died in the land of jealousies.
And Saul dwelt at the end of Gibeah, under the line of Migron; and the people that were with him were six hundred men.
And thou shalt say unto God, Let not thine anger wax hot against me, and I will speak with thee once: I pray thee, let me make an end of this once with the fleece of the fleece, and let it be dried up upon the wool, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
and some of the kings and the rulers of the provinces were judged, and were bound with chains and bands.
and the third day shalt thou come down, and thou shalt come in unto the place where thou wast hid in the day of the work; and thou shalt cleave unto the stone of the house of Ephraim.
not leaving our assembly together, as we were wont to do, but exhorting one another, and by so much as ye see the day drawing nigh.
And when he had shewed them, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; and they let that man and all his kindred go.
For the counsel of Israel, that they might know whether they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had given to their fathers by Moses.
And in the days of his flesh, when he offered up prayers, and supplications with a loud voice, and cried unto him that was able to save him from death, and had been heard for his fear,
And the lords of the Philistines brought up unto her seven green cords, which had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Give me an account of what thou hast done. And Jonathan answered and said, Surely I have taken a little honey upon my staff, and now death is mine.
And the children of Israel were called from Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my sight, working out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
He shall keep the feet of his saints; But the wicked shall be put to silence in darkness; For no man shall prevail by strength.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah gave me my request which I asked him:
And one of the young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he reviled them.
And I heard that thy shepherds that were with us in the wilderness were shorn: we did not oppress them, neither was there missing unto them of the flock at any time, when they were with us in Carmel.
And the trees said unto the vine, Thou comest and be king over us.
for God it is that worketh in you both to do, and to work for his good pleasure.
And the children of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were troubled; for they saw that the plague was shut upon them.
Is not this David, of whom men sang one another in the dance, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And the Philistines said, I have defied the divisions of Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and had departed from off Saul.
And because of this, he is a new covenant between us, that death having come, for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, that they might receive the promise of the everlasting inheritance,
And when he was put in the middle of the night, he rose at midnight, and took the doors of the gate, and the two pillars, and went away with them, and bound them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of an hill that is before Hebron.
And Saul said unto his servant, But if we go, what shall we take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no oblation to the man of God: what shall we do?
And it came to pass, when they had done it, that the hand of Jehovah was upon the city, and a very great tumult; and he smote the men of the city from the youngest to the first-born, and caused the boils to break out upon them.
And Abimelech heard that the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, shall appear a second time, and without sin, to them that wait for him for salvation.
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they said, To bind up the son we are come up, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And thou shalt say, Because Jehovah hath given me up to Zebah and to Zalmunna, I will break thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with thorns.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but will rebel against his words, and the hand of Jehovah shall be upon you, and upon your fathers.
And they came in against Gibeah, ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle grievous; and they knew not that the evil was smitten against them.
only in food and drinking, and another baptism, and uncircumcision, until the time of repentance required.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and they that are afflicted, have ye also in the body.
And when Saul spake to the priest, the tumult that was in the camp of the Philistines went and increased; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And the children of Israel slew Baal and Ashtaroth, and Jehovah only.
For the word of God liveth, and the word of God, and of all that are in need, than all that have two two-edged sword, and as far as the course of soul and spirit, both the work and the marrow, and able to judge the pattern and the thoughts of the heart.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, and journeyed as an army of the land of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens were troubled, and the skies drop water.
And David went up from thence to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother abide with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
I will give my God thanks upon all the remembrance of thee,
And David said unto Moses, If I have found favor in thy sight, let a place be given me in one of the cities of this land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the king's city with thee?
And Michal causeth David to go down through the window: and Michal went on, and fled, and escaped.
And Saul and all the people that were with him gathered themselves, and they came to the battle; and, behold, every man's sword was against his neighbour, and there was a very great tumult.
and thou shalt go down before me unto Gilgal; and behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer up burnt-offerings, to sacrifice peace-offerings, seven days shalt thou tarry, until I come unto thee, and shew thee what thou shalt do.
And the people returned to the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Why hath Jehovah smitten us to day before the Philistines? let us bring unto us the ark of the covenant of Jehovah from Shiloh, and let it come in the midst of us, that it may save us from the hand of our enemies.
Brethren, I do not count myself to bear: but this I do, and forget the things that are behind, and tell to those things which are before,
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna, now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
I exhort them also, but I exhort them, that they should do the same thing in the Lord.
And Noah called, and said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
For zeal persecuted the church, according to the righteousness of the law, being blameless.
And the people took of the spoil, and the sheep, and the cattle, and the best things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And the Zidonians, and the Amalekite, and Midian, and Midian, have trodden thee down; and I have not delivered thee from their hand.
This I pray, that thy love may abound more and more in knowledge and all understanding;
The elders of her women answered her: Yea, she returned unto her.
being filled with the fruits of righteousness through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
but on the third day thou shalt go down quickly; and thou shalt come to the place where thou hast hid thyself in the day of the business, and abide by the stone zel.
And David pursued, and he and four hundred men: for they were two hundred men, and they could not go over the brook.
Now the God of peace, who hath made that great shepherd of his flock, even our Lord Jesus, come again from the blood of the eternal covenant,
and all the inhabitants of the land came to wood, and there was honey upon the ground.
And Jonathan called David, and told him all these words; and Jonathan brought in David unto Saul, and he was before him, as he had been yesterday and the day before.
From the heavens the stars fight; From their courses they fight against Sisera.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may kill them.
And they said, Behold, a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, from the time to the north of Bethel, at the rising of the sun, by the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of the wall.
But they hearkened not unto their judges; for they went after other gods, and bowed themselves to them, and turned quickly out of the way that their fathers had walked in, to keep the commandments of Jehovah; and they did not so.
For they have married life among you all, and are not defiled; for men commit adultery shall be judged by God.
If ye bear correction, as God begot you, for who is a son whom a father doth not chasten?
And Samuel came no more to see him until the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Now as for Zebah and Zalmunna, were in Benaiah 'measure, and with their armies, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of the east; for there fell an hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And he said, It is peace: I have come to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah, be ye holy, and come with me to the sacrifice; and he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
But I rejoiced in the Lord exceedingly, that now ye have now quickened your thoughts of me, though ye have thought also of me, but have lacked the opportunity.
And he said, Behold, I am come to do thy will. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
and the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, that they that heard excuse themselves, that the word might not be spoken unto them.
For then he often suffered from the foundation of the world: but now, at the end of the world he was manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Haste, haste, tarry not: and Jonathan's son gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
And Saul said unto his servant, But behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our sacks, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God. What have we?
And Saul said unto him, Why hast ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise up against me, as at this day?
But now thy kingdom shall not endure: Jehovah hath sought for himself a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah hath made him ruler over his people, because ye have not kept the word of Jehovah.
Jehovah hath given me my request; And Jehovah hath given me my request.
and we smote the south of the Philistines, and against the inhabitants of Judah, and against the south of Caleb; and we burned with fire.
And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? and they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the chief captain of his army was as Sisera, and he dwelt in the air.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, Who have offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah!
But the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet pleasure, and my pleasant fruit, and go to wave over the trees?
And the flame of the altar went up into heaven, and the angel of the Lord went up also in the flame. And when they saw it, they fell flat on the ground.
And others were accused of kings and of hundreds, and also of chains and of bonds,
And said, Have ye not made a raid to-day? And David said, Concerning the south of Judah, and against the south of the sons of Jerahmeel, and against the land of the Kenites.
And they sent men to spy round about Beth-el: for the name of the city was Luz.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
and now arise, thou and the people that are with thee, and lay wait in the field;
Only this day I began to inquire of God for him: Far be it from me that the king should not impute anything against his servant or against my father's house; for thy servant knoweth not any of this matter, little or great.
And her father said, I have said, That thou hast hated her, and I give her to thy friend. Is not her my sister, the young one better than she? let her be, I pray thee, for her.
And Sisera fled to the tent of Jahalah, the wife of Heber the Jebusite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenites.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a valiant man? and who is like unto thee in Israel? why then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to destroy the king thy lord.
And the princes of the Philistines came together to make a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to be glad; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands the enemy our enemy.
And Michal let him down through the window, and he went and fled, and fled.
And the children of Ammon were called, and they encamped in Gilead: and the children of Israel gathered, and encamped in Mizpah.
Ask therefore thy servants, and they will say unto thee: Let the young men find favour in thine eyes, for we have come in a feast, and I pray thee, whatever thou hast on thy servants, and for thy son David.
For the word of God, that dwelleth, and worketh, and such as are more than that which is] a two-edged sword, and as a two-edged sword, and the spirit, and the marrow, and the marrow, and the mind of the mind.
And the Sidonians, and the Amalekite, and the Ashdodites, did oppress you; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And he went up into mount with him, and all his people with him; and he took an axe, and cut down the boughs of a tree, and laid it on his shoulder, and carried it, and said to his companions, What ye see me, do ye come out of hand.
And the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel; and they gathered themselves together, and Israel was smitten by the Philistines, and smote about four thousand men in the field.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten; and the children of Israel went before Benjamin, and put their trust in the eyes of the children of Israel, who were to encamp at Gibeah.
But the people refused to hear the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
and he also had mercy of brass upon his feet, and a great shield covered his shoulders.
Let us take hold of the hope of the hope without wavering; for he is faithful that hath promised.
He looketh not all the way to his secret; But the ways of others are in the heart.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, See now, I pray thee, an evil spirit from God.
And Jabez went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Come in, my lord, and come in unto me without fear: and he went into her tent, and she put a covering upon him.
And the men of Shechem set a lie in wait for him in the top of the mountains, and they robbed all that came by them; and it was told Abimelech.
And they turned aside the gods of the stranger out of their midst, and serve Jehovah; and his soul was grieved with the evil of Israel.
And David saw that Saul came to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in a forest.
And the kine took the straight way that leadeth to Bethshemesh; and they went along the way, as they went; and they turned not aside to the right hand nor to the left: and the lords of the Philistines followed them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
And the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble; for the people were grieved; and the people hid themselves in caves, and in the thick places, and in the rocks, and in the strongholds, and in holes.
And the king said, Thou shalt certainly die, and thou, and Ahimelech, and all thy father's house.
And Japhlet came to Mizpah to his house; and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; and she was a only child, beside her he had neither son nor daughter.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass, when they went forth, that David reigned better than all the servants of Saul; and his name was highly esteemed.
And six hundred men of the children of Dan, armed with their weapons of war, stood at the door of the gate.
and to them that were in the cities of the children of Jerahmeel, who were in the cities of Jerahmeel, unto the cities of the Kenites,
looking diligently, that any man should be wanting to the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness swell up, and by it many be defiled.
For thou knowest that, when he hath come to possess the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for a change of mind, though he sought it with tears.
And concerning the word that I and thou hast spoken, the Lord be between thee and me for ever.
For when God sware unto Abraham, because there was no oath, he made it by himself:
And the children of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, the uncle of Saul.
And, behold, as for Sisera, as for Sisera, went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And he went into her, and, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.
The river of the river overflowed them, The river of old, The river of the river; My soul, go forth with strength.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God is taken.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not, thou shalt not die.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah hath sent me to anoint thee king over his people Israel: therefore hear the words of Jehovah.
And she caused him to sleep upon her knees; and she sent for a man, and had seven stripes of hair cut off; and while it was, he became feeble, and his strength went out from him.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, and let my enemy go, that he is escaped? And Michal answered and said unto me, Let me go, why should I kill thee?
And David said unto his servants, Gird ye on every man his sword; and they put on every man his sword, and David also girded upon his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred men were left by the vessels.
And she said unto Shammah, Make me known now what is the secret of thy great strength; and thou shalt be ravished and faint.
For therefore it remaineth for some to enter into it, and the men to whom the good tidings was preached afore was not in transgression.
And it came to pass, that he said unto Shammah the son, Arise, I pray thee, to thee that thou hast mocked me, saying, How wilt thou put thyself in bonds? And he said unto her, If thou take the seven parts of my hair, and gird thyself with the girdle, I will faint, and be like one other man.
And the children of Benjamin did not dispossess the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem: but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And the weight of the battle was turned upon Saul; and the archers overtook him, and he was wounded with the archers.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Tarry, I pray thee, that I may tell thee what Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Speak.
For if the word spake by angels, being binding, and all disobedience, and act of transgression received a just penalty,
And David said to Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me a matter, and he saith unto me, Let no man know of the matter whereof I send thee, and which I have commanded thee; and the young men have I made to know and such a place.
And as he did so by year, when she went up into the house of Jehovah, she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And Amasa went and took three hundred foxes, and took torches, and gave them the tail to the tail, and set a lamp between two tails.
And he made himself a two-edged sword, with a piece in the length of the hand of the hand, and girt with it under his garment upon the right thigh.
If there be any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any of his bowels and mercy,
And David took these words to heart, and fear the king of Gath.
And Saul sought to strengthen David to the wall with the spear; but he went out from Saul, and smote the spear into the wall; and David fled, and escaped that night.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
For every high priest that is separated from among men is ordained for men in the things that are due unto God, that he may offer sacrifices and sacrifices for sins:
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that spoiled them; and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, so that they could no more stand before their enemies.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What of these Hebrews? And he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or yet these years? and I have found no fault in him since he fell to this day.
But God hath given grace unto us, that they should not be made perfect.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a stranger that is not of the children of Israel: but we will pass over unto Gibeah.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, and fear the people, and obey their voice.
and the other out of love, knowing that for defence I am set.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and took it with them from the border of Ashdod.
But Saul and the people that were with him, even the best of the flock, and the fat of the flock, and the fat of the cattle, and the second fat of the kine, and all that was precious, they were not willing to utterly destroy them: but all the substance that was despised, and of nought, they utterly destroyed.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when the Edomites were there, that he would tell Saul: I have sought the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
And God hearkened unto the voice of the man; and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field, and the name of her husband was not with her.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
And Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of God fight against the Philistines.
And it came to pass, that, behold, the bands of the children of Sisera and of Sisera went out to meet him; and she said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And he came with her, and saw that he was lying dead, with the nail in his house.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought him no more.
And the women sang as they were dancing; and they said, Saul hath smitten his thousands, but David his ten thousands.
What do we do for them? for they that are left, for wives, and we have sworn by the Lord not to give them of our daughters for wives?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And David sware again and again, and said, Thy father knoweth that I have found grace in thy sight; and he hath said, Jonathan shall not know this, lest he be grieved; but the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, and thy soul liveth, and death.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the tip of the rod, which he held in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened bread; and there arose a fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread; and the angel of Jehovah went out from his presence.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Because I have hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, and I go in the way that Jehovah hath sent me, and I will bring down Amalek king of Amalek, and Amalek, and Amalek.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves of bread, and two mules, and five sheep, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.
And the children of Israel drew near unto the children of Benjamin on the second day.
And they went up into the city, and entered into the city; and, behold, Samuel went out to meet them, to go up to the high place.
And the Philistines drew nigh the morning and evening, and offered himself forty days.
And when she continued praying before Jehovah, she saw her mouth.
By faith Joseph, as he died, spake of the children of Israel, and taught his bones.
And none of them was of the least of the greatest, even sons and daughters, from the spoil unto all that they had taken for themselves: and David brought back all things.
And his fellow answered, and said, This is nothing except the sword of the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for God hath delivered into his hand the Midianites, and all the host.
And the man said unto him, Let them now make perfume, as to-day, with the fat, and take to thee as thy soul desireth. And he said unto him, Thou shalt give it; and if not, I have gotten by strength.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns, and the thistle of the wilderness; and he trode down the men of Succoth with them.
The things which thou hast heard, and received, and have heard, and seen in me, these are ye; and the God of peace is with you.
But in them there is a memorial of sins, year by year.
But they made himself of no name, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And with whom was he angry forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?
And David fled from the city of Ramah, and came, and said before Jonathan, What hast I done? what is mine iniquity? and what my sin is before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And it came to pass, that he said unto his servants, Thou sawest the man's madness: why hast thou brought him unto me?
and behold, all the hidden places where he lieth, return unto me, and I will go with thee; and if he be there in the land, then will I seek him among the thousands of Judah.
And the king sent to call Abimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all the house of his father, the priests that were at Nob; and they came all of them to the king.
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And it came to pass, when they had eaten bread and wine in the chamber, that Hananiah arose. And the priest was sitting by the posts of the gate of Jehovah.
Now it came to pass at that time, that Samuel knew not the Lord; and the word of Jehovah came not unto him.
And he said unto them, Go in peace; Jehovah looketh upon your way, and the way that ye go.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a young man, and a great man; and there was no man of the children of Israel more favored than he, and he was high above all the people.
And Saul said, Draw near hither, all the princes of the people, and know, and know, that this sin is this day.
Let us take hold of our hope without wavering, for he that sweareth is faithful.
Moreover the Lord will deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah will deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And Jeremiah the son of Shelemiah said, Who is Abimelech, and he that is Shechem, that we should be his servants? is it not right for the son of Jerubbesheth, and the son of Jerubbesheth, to be servants to the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? But why should we be his servants?
and see how great this one, to whom also the tenth Abraham the Buzite gave of the firstfruits,
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes; I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Jabesh said, Tomorrow we will come out unto thee, and thou shalt do with us all that pleaseth thee.
And he ran to him, and said, Behold, I, for thou hast said my name. And she said, I have not said thy name; go to thy rest again. And he went again to his bed.
And there was a sword against them from heaven, and the stars that remained in their order, and their courses against them.
And it came to pass, when they were near the house of Micah, that they heard a voice that was not strange unto them, that of the young priests, they went out to his place, and said unto him, How camest thou hither? and what are ye doing in this place? and why are ye here?
Thy servant smote the lion and the bear; and the Philistines were as one of them, because he defied the hosts of the living God.
And it came to pass, when they pressed themselves hard upon them, that the elders of Gilead went to fetch themselves out of the land of Tob, to bring them out.
And do not forget the good things of the strangers; for by reason of that which there were no more angels in vain.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand; and they smote them in the field ten thousand men.
But his sons walked not in his ways; They turned aside after gain; They took bribes, and perverted judgment.
And it came to pass, when thy father saw that I am away, saying, David sought me for himself, that he might go to Bethlehem, to his city: for it is the time when his house made their oblation year by year.
And Samuel turned round about, and took hold of his robe, and rent it.
And she said unto Shammah, Tell me, I pray thee, in the place of thy great strength, wherewith thou mayest be bound to afflict thee.
And Shammah went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
If he shall say, It is well, thy servant shall have peace; But if he be angry, know that his wickedness is come to his height.
But the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
And he said unto him, Whom hast thou gone up to day? David answered, and said, Concerning the south of Judah, and against the south of Judah, and against the south of Cenchrea.
And Michal took the image, and laid it in the bed, and put the net upon his head, and covered it with the mercy-seat.
And after Abimelech, Tola the son of Jvah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, arose to save Israel; and he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
that ye may approve the things which are above, that ye may be pure and blameless in the day of Christ,
And Jonathan said unto his armourbearer, Come, let us go over to the armed men of these uncircumcised; peradventure Jehovah will do for us; for there is no occasion for Jehovah to save by many or few.
And Saul encamped in the hill-country of Zephathah, which faces the wilderness by the way. And David abode in the wilderness; and when he saw that Saul had come after him into the wilderness,
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Weep not to Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Let us go forth unto him without the circle of the camp, And take his shame upon ourselves.
And all the trees said to the thorns, Come, and reign over us.
And they turned into it, to lodge there; and when they came in, they sat in the street of the city, for no man should receive them to lodge.
Now Samuel did not know Jehovah, nor the word of Jehovah was revealed unto him.
And Abdon the son of Dodai the Pirathonite died, and was buried in the Pirathonite, in the hill-country of Ephraim in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father; and he did to her according to his vow; and she slept not with a man: and it became a custom in Israel.
And there lacked none of them, from the least to great, and to sons and daughters, and from the spoil, even unto all that they had taken. And David brought back all the people.
And it came to pass, as she rode upon the ass, that she came down by the den upon the mountain; and, behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And it is true that there are many priests; for death hath not suffered them for ever.
Not that I seek the gift; but I seek for the fruit which is unto your account.
And it came to pass, when the servants of David came to Abigail unto Carmel, they said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee to him as wife.
For if the word be spoken through angels, and all disobedience and transgression have received a righteous reward,
and Judah with its border, and Ashkelon with its border, and Ekron with its border.
And Heber the Jebusite was separated from the Kenites, of the sons of Hobab the father-in-law of Moses; and he stretched out his tent unto the oak, which is in the midst of the oak, which is called Kedesh.
and Jehovah hath done for my lord all the good things that he hath said he will do for you, and have made thee ruler over Israel;
For this time I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel: he will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And the tower of Penuel he broke down, and slew the men of the city.
And they waited until they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the street; and they took the key, and opened, and, behold, their lord lay dead on the earth.
And the Philistines followed after Saul and his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
that we may come to the seat of grace, that we may not fear, that we may obtain mercy unto us, and that we may receive grace in the time of need.
And every priest shall stand daily by day, and daily to offer the same sacrifice, which can not take away sin;
And the battle went sore against Saul; and the archers smote him, and he was wounded with the archers.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
And when I saw that there was no help from thee, I put my life in mine hand, and went over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hands: why then hast thou come up to me this day to make war upon me?
But now he is higher than the priest; for by him hath God made a good covenant with man, according to the giving of good things.
Ye shall not harden your heart, as in the provocation, in the day of the temptation in the wilderness;
And the woman hasted, and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man that came unto me that day hath appeared unto me.
For all of you have conspired against me, and there is no man shut up the covenant between my son and the son of Jesse: none of you have had pity on me, neither have thou seen me, that my son hath called my servant against me, to hide me, as he hath done this day.
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan, and sware, saying, Jehovah liveth; he shall not be put to death.
And the carcase of these beasts, whose blood is brought into the most holy priest, shall be burned without the camp.
And Saul came up to Samuel in the gate of the city, and said, Give me directions, if thou be good, to the house of the prophet.
Who through faith hath subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, hath sworn, stopped the mouth of lions.
And David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Elasah the king of Gath.
Who made him angry when his voice came to them, all them that came out of Egypt with Moses?
And it came to pass on the morrow, when they rose up in the morning, they found Dagon lying upon his face upon the earth before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon, and the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold.
And the spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, and he sat in his house, and held a spear in his hand; and David was with his hand.
praying for us; for we trust we have a good conscience in all things, in all things that are good.
And Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Sodom, and the inhabitants of Sidon, and Huppim, and Achzib, and Helkath, and Rehob, and Rehob.
And the heart of the priest was glad; and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went into the midst of the people.
Therefore now return, and go in peace, that thou mayest not be displeased with the lords of the Philistines.
and to Jesus by whom the new testament was made between God and man, and unto the sign of the blood, than the blood of Abel.
And he sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come ye down against Midian, and take before them the waters, even the Jordan, even the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto the Jordan, even the Jordan.
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent, and if any man come and inquire of thee, and saith, Is there any man here? ye shall say, No.
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and smote the children of Israel eighteen thousand men: all these drew the sword.
And he had forty sons, and of them thirty sons, riding upon seventy asses, and he judged Israel eight years.
For if the blood of oxen and of goats, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkle the unclean, sanctify to the cleansing of the flesh;
And he answered and said unto him, We came out of Bethlehem, and we went to our tents, which is on the side of Ephraim, from whence we came to Bethlehem; and now we go to the house of God, and none shall receive us under his roof.
But we desire that every one of you may shew the diligence of the hope of hope unto the end.
And David said unto Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no man know any thing of the business which I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee; and I have set my servants unto such and such a place.
And they gave to Caleb Hebron, as Moses spake; and he drove out thence the three sons of Anak.
And when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
And the wise went with the elders of Gilead; and the people made him head, and captain over them; and they sang all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And David came to Saul, and entered into his house; and he loved him greatly, and he became the armor of Saul.
and because of it he is bound to offer sacrifice for his own sin, and for the people.
And the Philistines came up early, and tarried in the evening; and he stood forty days.
For they chastened us a few days according to what seemed good unto them; but he doeth so for our sakes, that we may have a share in his holiness.
And he went out, and contended with Sisera, and said unto him, Come, and I will let you see the man whom thou seekest. And he came into her tent, and saw, and Sisera was slain with the nails of his head.
Saul was thirty years old when he began to reign; and he reigned forty years in Israel.
But when the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us: whereas Jehovah thy God was thy king.
And Israel setteth a lie in wait against Gibeah:
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my firstborn Michal, she will I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight against Jehovah. But Saul said, My hand shall not be upon him, but the hand of the Philistines shall be upon him.
And Saul was told that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
For they chose new gods, and war in the gates: was there a shield or a spear among forty thousand in Israel?
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house: and she hasted and slew it; and she took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened cakes of it.
And the shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam: and his spear weighed six hundred shekels of iron, and the shield went before him.
For when Moses had commanded all the ordinances of the law unto the people, he took the blood of goats and oxen, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and put it upon the book, and upon all the people;
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and took their cattle, and put them to the sword with great destruction. And David was the saviour of the people of Keilah.
Watch ye to keep open the house: for in this manner there have been angels with them, without knowing it.
And Samuel took a lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And he said, Let me go, for there is a sacrifice in the city, one of my brethren hath sent for me; and now if I have found favour in thy eyes, I will go quickly, and see my brethren: for this cause he did not come to the king's table.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath Jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah, and come down, and bring it up unto you.
Let all thine enemies perish, Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the rising of the sun in his might: and the land rested forty years.
Whose end is destruction, Whose God is their belly; And whose glory is in their shame, Who have thought of earthly things.
And they said, Who is there among the tribes of Israel that came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah? Behold, there came none of them from Jabesh Gilead unto the congregation.
And Jonathan rose up against the armed army of the Philistines at Gibeah; and tidings was given to the Philistines, that the Hebrews were turned against them. And Saul had a trumpet spread throughout all the land.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
And God did so that night, and it was dry upon the wool, but upon all the dew.
This is the sum of the things whereof we speak: We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the glory of heaven;
And it came to pass, as she was going on her way, that her husband admonished her to ask her father's field. And when she groaned, she said unto her, What aileth thee?
And he made a ephod out of it, and put it in the city of Ophrah; and all Israel played the harlot unto it, and it became a snare to the house of Israel.
Are there not enough of me that thou hast suffered against me, that thou hast let this man come and walk before me? is such a man come into my house?
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast set me in the land of the south, give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs, and the lower springs.
And he came in unto the men of Succoth, and said, Ah as Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye reproached me, saying, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna, now in thy hand that we give to thy men that weary bread?
And the man Elkanah went up, and all his house, to offer to Jehovah the sacrifice of the days, and his vow.
And it came to pass, when the ark of Jehovah's covenant came into the camp, that all Israel cried, and the earth sounded with it.
And the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took hold of his concubine, and brought forth unto them without, and they knew her, and spread themselves upon her all the night, until the morning, and sent her away in the ascending of the dawn.
And he took the people, and divided them into three pieces, and set wait in a field, and looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
For our God is a consuming fire.
Even though I myself might have faith in the flesh, if any man have so to believe in the flesh, I have more.
And she called the child, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And he found a sharp bone, and the top of a ass that lay there, caught it up, and was killed with it.
And Samuel was serving before Jehovah, as a man was girded with a linen ephod.
And the lords of the Philistines passed over by hundreds, and by thousands; and David and his men went in behind the guard.
For the high priest is worthy of us, holy, holy, undefiled, and undefiled, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens,
And thou shalt say unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
Better is the reproach of Christ more than all the riches of Egypt; for he sought unto his reward.
For our brother Timotheus is delivered out of prison; and if he come in a little while, I will come unto thee.
For all things I have strength, in the strength of Christ.
who chose rather to share the evil among the saints, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season;
And Samuel saw him not until the day of his death; but Samuel mourned over Saul; and the Lord repented that he made Saul king over Israel.
And God recompensed all the wickedness of the men of Shechem upon their heads; and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth fell upon them.
It is not good that thou hast done: Jehovah liveth, but ye sons of death, in that ye have not watched over your master, over the anointed of Jehovah; and now, behold, where the king's spear, and the staff of water which is in his heart.
For ye know that afterward, desiring to inherit the blessing, was cast away; for he found no place for repentance, though he sought it with tears.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spake the words in the ears of the people; and all the people lifted up their voice and wept.
And it came to pass, that afterward David was guilty, because he had cut off the robe of Saul.
And he turned from the graven images that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret report unto thee, O king. And he said, Be silent: and all that stood by him went out from him.
and they turned before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; and the battle followed them; and they that were of the city destroying them in their midst.
how much less reprove ye, if ye be thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hast counted the blood of the covenant with which he was sanctified, and hath wrought in the Spirit of grace?
and all the inhabitants of the land came to wood, and there was honey upon the ground.
And Zebulun did not destroy the inhabitants of Keilah, and Nahalal; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became their tributaries.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon king of Moab against Israel, because they had done the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they offered sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
So the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them up into the hand of the Ethiopians, even unto the king of Babylon; and the children of Israel were his servants eight years.
And he said unto them, See me, and thus do; and, behold, I come into the uttermost parts of the camp, and it shall be as I do so.
The sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah: for the men despised the offering of Jehovah.
And the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the shewbread, which was taken away from before the face of Jehovah, that hot bread might be set up.
and I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered out of his mouth, and he rose up against me; and I took hold of his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
So he took provision, and the trumpets, according to their number, and commanded all the rest of the people to go to their tents; and he with the three hundred men gave himself to the battle: and the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
And the Edomites, which stood by the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech the son of Ahitub:
and some out of love, knowing that I am set for the charge of the gospel.
And Saul feared the presence of David; for Jehovah was with him; and he turned aside from Saul.
And he said unto him, O my lord, and Jehovah is with us: and why hath all this found us? and where our fathers told us, Hath not Jehovah brought us up out of Egypt? and now Jehovah hath left us, and will give us into the hand of Midian.
And the man Micah had a house of gods; and he made the ephod and the house of his fathers, and made of his sons one of his sons.
And he smote them, and discomfited them, and destroyed them, and destroyed them; and he went forth to his dwelling place in the rock of Etam.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the camp, and came to Shiloh the same day with his garments rent, and his head scattered with dust.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee, and Jehovah will avenge me upon you; but my hand shall not be against you.
Only because of the generations of the children of Israel, for the counsel of the children of Israel, only they that rose up till they had not seen it.
And David said unto Saul, Why dost thou hear the words of men, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
for your offering unto the good tidings from the first day until now.
And it came to pass, when the Spirit of God was upon Saul, that David took the harp, and played with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
and to the sound of the trumpet, and to the sound of words which they heard not another word be spoken unto them.
Remember your elders, who spake the word of God unto you, and consider the end of their way of life, and walk in their faith.
And he dwelt in the hill-country, that is, of pieces of iron, in Ai, and in Salcah; and the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon him, and he became a servant to him.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Helam unto Ramah.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the men, saying, Because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took away my land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and as far as the Jordan; and now give me a quiet place.
And she fastened it with the girdle, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and Jonathan the son. And Shallum awoke from his sleep, and brake the bands of the house, and the weaver.
And Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered without the gate.
And the woman said unto him, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up to Samuel.
And they that make war against Jehovah shall be broken; and he shall send forth his voice from heaven: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; he will give strength to his king, and shall lift up the horn of him upon whom the holy oil is put.
And God did that night as he asked; and it was dry upon the wool, and there was dew upon all the earth.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, and all his people; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down branches of trees, and took them, and put them on his back. And he said unto the people that were with him, Be quick, and do as thou hast seen me.
But a certain dreadful expectation of judgment; And the rage of a fire that shall consume the adversaries.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart was greatly troubled.
And they said unto him, Inquire, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way wherein we go shall be prosperous.
And David put forth his hand unto the vessel, and took thence a stone, and a stone, and smote the Philistines on his forehead; and the stone was turned into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth.
But he fled; and they went after him, and caught him, and bare his hands, and his great toes, and his great toes.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was Jehovah; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. And the Philistines reigned over Israel.
And he said unto them, Keep your eyes upon me, and do as I do: when I come into the midst of the tents, ye shall do the same.
But the princes of the Philistines were angry with him, and said unto him, Make the man go back to the place which thou hast given him; let him not go down with us to the battle, lest he be turned against us, lest he be a liar unto us: for how shall this man make peace with his lord? will it not be with the heads of these men?
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Agagite, a skilful man, and a mighty man, and a man of war, and understanding in word, and a man of form, and Jehovah with him.
And they took the two captains of Midian, Oreb, and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb in the rock of Oreb; and they slew with the wine of Zeeb; and they went after Midian: and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb unto the end of the Jordan.
If he say, It is well, thy servant shall be at peace; but if he be angry, then it will be clear unto thee that he hath an evil device against me.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanite; and I will go with you into thy lot. And Simeon went with him.
Wherefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said indeed that thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me for ever; but now Jehovah saith, Be thou far from me; for they that honor me will I honor; and they that hate me shall be despised.
or he must suffer many times since the foundation of the world: but now, at the end of the ages he hath been manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Jehovah putteth to death, and keepeth alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For we have not a high priest, who can not have mercy on our infirmities: but one is tempted in all things as we are, without sin.
And Saul drew near to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the prophet is.
And these nations, whom Jehovah went out, to try Israel by them, all that knew not all the wars of Canaan;
For ye came not unto the mountain that would be touched, and was all in fire, and in darkness, and in darkness, and in the storm;
And he said unto him, We are passing over from Beth-Mesopotamia, even unto the sides of the hill-country of Ephraim; thence I will go unto the house of Judah, and I will go to the house of Jehovah, and there shall be no man gathered me into the house.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have both of us sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever: and he arose, and went, and Jonathan went into the city.
And he did valiantly, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that spoiled them.
And they turned aside, and came to the house of the young man the Levites, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
But Shammah his son arose until the middle of the night; and he rose up in the middle of the night, and took the doors of the gate, and the two doors, and rent them with the bars, and laid them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the hill that is before Hebron.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And the song came up to Saul at Gibeah, to see Saul, and said, Is not David dwelling among us in the fortified places of Hormah, in the hill of Paran, to the south of the wilderness?
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which proceedeth out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath avenged thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
By the voice of the voice of the cry of the waters, There shall they give forth righteous acts of Jehovah, and righteousness of his daughters in Israel; and they shall reign in the gates of Jehovah.
praying for us; for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, and desire to conduct ourselves in every way.
When thou comest into the city, thou shalt find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat till he come: because he blesseth the sacrifice, and afterward they eat that are bidden. Now therefore go up, for to morrow shalt thou find him.
And when we had gone, Jesus made a high priest for ever after the commandment of Malchijah.
And their iniquities and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men in the rock of the wild goats.
Jehovah sent a man, a prophet, unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and I will bring you out from the house of bondage;
I thank my God, when I remember thee,
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and they answered him that he was sick.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye spake unto me, and have made a king over you.
And he that brought the tidings answered, and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines; and there is a great slaughter of the people; and thy two sons, and Ophni, and Phinehas are dead; and the ark of God is taken.
And Ehud made himself a little, and a two-edged sword, and a cubit in length; and he put it under his garments upon his right thigh.
And he said unto them, What have I done among you? is not that Ephraim taken up after the cluster of grapes, than the grapes of Abiezer, which were in the winepress?
And he went from thence to Penuel, and he spake unto them; and the men of Penuel answered him, as the men of Succoth answered him.
And it came to pass, when the princes of Issachar, Deborah, that came out of the valley of Reuben, that was in the valley of Reuben, they ran into the valley at his feet.
And Jonathan said unto him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be cut off; for thy throne shall be desolate.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go, and smite the transgressors, and the Amalekite, and fight against them, until they die.
And he built an altar unto Jehovah, and called it, saying, Jehovah is Peace. Unto this day thou shalt be in the midst of the house of the Rechabites.
who is not made according to the law of a carnal commandment, but according to the power of an error.
And he said unto him, Where is now thy mouth, thou that saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go now, I pray, and fight against them.
And the men of Israel pressed on that day, because Saul had made the people swear, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread until evening, when I will have avenged on mine enemies. And none of the people tasted bread.
For they that say these things, tell them that they seek a country.
And he sent through all Manasseh, and they came after him; and he sent to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up, and were joined to the others.
And when the night was come, he rose up, and rose up, and took hold of the doors of the city, and took the doors, and the bars, and the bars, and put them on his back, and took them up to the top of the hill before Hebron.
But as for them that are full, there is light for them that are full of gain, that they may discern good and evil.
And Shammah the son of Barachel said, I have made them red with blood, I have made them red with blood, with the sole of an ass of scarlet, and I have killed a thousand.
And there was a mighty man out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits, and a span went out.
The man that goeth against the law of Moses is put to death, without mercy on the word of two or three witnesses;
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the sick, and they found Saul and his three sons fallen on mount Gilboa.
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter unto Benjamin to wife.
And Israel and the Philistines set the battle in array against the head.
And the children of Israel, beside Benjamin, were four hundred thousand men that drew sword; all these were men of war.
And they took the thing that Micah had made, and the priest, whom he had, and came to Laish, to a people dumb and quiet, and smote them with the edge of the sword; and they burned the city with fire.
For the things of the things which are in heaven are to be purified with these sacrifices; but the things of the heavens are for themselves to be cleansed than these.
In like manner also ye rejoice, and rejoice with me.
and Jehovah will give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah will give the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And he fled, and followed them, and dwelt in the land of Tob; and there were gathered to him poor men, and robbers, and they followed him as their prince.
by the new and the living, which he hath appointed unto us by the veil, which is his flesh,
And she fell at his feet, and said, Let this iniquity be, my lord; let thy handmaid speak, I pray thee, in thine ears, and hear the words of thy servant.
And they said unto him, This is the word of Japhlet: Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
For to you it was granted, for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also for him to suffer.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, young? And David said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Gittite.
but exhort one day by day, so long as it is called unto this day; lest any one of you be made stubborn by the deceit of sin.
So Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was chosen.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but none answered. Then he took her up upon an ass, and the man arose, and went into his place.
And Saul said, Speak thus to David: The king desireth not any more dowry, but only a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought to deliver David into the hand of the Philistines.
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin to wife.
And David spake unto the men that stood with him, saying, What shall be done for the man that overcometh the Philistines, and hath taken away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he maketh the battle of the living God?
And he said unto Zebah and Anammelech, What men were they, whom ye slew at Tabor? And they said, They are like unto thee, every one like the sons of a king.
And as Samuel turned away to depart, he laid hold on the hem of his garment, and it rent.
And Jabez came out to meet Sisera, and she said unto him, Turn aside, my lord: turn aside to me, and fear not. And he turned aside into her tent, and covered him with a covering.
and ye shall make no covenant with the people of this land; and ye shall see that their altars are broken down; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice: what hast ye done?
And Saul saw, and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And God hearkened to the voice of man, and an angel of God came again to the woman; and she sat in the field, and the name of her husband was not with her.
And Abigail the wife of Ishmael was given to his companion, whom he had made with him.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines unto them; and they said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought about to Gath. And they took the ark of the God of Israel unto Gath.
For God is my record, how much I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
Speak thou in the ears of all the men of Shechem, saying, Is it better for thee, that all the sons of Jerubbesheth, who are seventy persons, govern over thee, or that one rule over thee? Remember also that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, with officers and ministers;
For he testifieth: thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Malchijah.
For such a high priest was worthy of us, holy, undefiled, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made high above the heavens;
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou didst thresh westward in the valley of oaks, behold, it is bound in a garment behind the ephod; and if thou wilt take it, take it; for there is no other save it. And David said, There is none like that. Give it me.
He kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that he that killeth the firstborn would not touch them.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, He is sick.
For we are become partakers of Christ, if indeed we retain the beginning of our faith until the end,
And Jonathan called unto David, and told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him as beforetime.
Now therefore hear now the voice of thy servant, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee: eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.
Cast not away therefore your confidence, That hath great recompense of reward.
And there was a man of Ramah Rehoboth over Ephraim, and Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Shimea, the son of Toah, a Benjamite.
remembering them that are in bonds, as having been bound with them, as well as yourselves being in the body.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Fear not Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
For the seventh day he spake, saying, And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.
And ye shall cry in that day because of thy king, which ye have chosen; and Jehovah will not hear thee in that day.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, and there were two thousand men with Saul in Michmash, and in mount Bethel, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people sent every man unto his tent.
And he shall appoint for himself captains of thousands, and of hundreds, and of fifties, and of hundreds, and of the fruit of his harvest, and of the weapons of war, and of the vessels of his chariots.
And the man arose to go; but his father-in-law besought him, and he returned, and lodged there.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, that is with the sheep.
And he gathered an army, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that spoiled them.
And it came to pass, when thou heardest the dream and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped. And he returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given into your hand the camp of Midian.
But it displeased Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass in that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down to the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And thou shalt say unto my brother, Peace be unto thee: peace be to thee, and to thy house, and to all that thou hast.
And Saul said, Blessed be the blessing of Jehovah, because thou hast had pity on me.
who have no need for sins every day, as the high priests, first for himself, and for himself, and for the people; because he hath done this once and for ever when he made his offering.
And it came to pass, when the men of the city rose early in the morning, that, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down by it; and the second bullock was offered up upon the altar that was built.
For God is not unjust to forget your work, and the labor of the love, that ye shewed to his name, serving the saints and serving;
And he set out, and the three hundred men that were with him, to the end of the camp, at the beginning of the midst, when the watchmen had only taken their place; and the trumpets were blown, and the vessels brake.
And Japhlet the Gileadite was a mighty man, and he was the son of a harlot: Gilead was the father of Japhlet.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What these Hebrews do here? And he said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is this not David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me for a year or two, and I have not seen any evil in him from the time when he came to me till now?
And he went on from thence to Ramah, and the Spirit of God came upon him; and he went on, and did as a prophet, and came to Ramah in Ramah.
But the things which we have found, let us walk in the same steps.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
And they said, What is the trespass that we shall return unto him? And they said, Of five golden oxen, and five of gold, the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague is upon them all, and upon thy nobles.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, a young man girded with a linen ephod.
And his armourbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah, and come down, and bring it up unto you.
And David said, Ye do not so, my brethren, with what Jehovah hath given us; and he will preserve us, and will give the troop that cometh against us into our hand.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a land southward: give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
And all the elders of Israel gathered together, and went up to the city of David at Ramah.
but Christ is faithful as a Son over his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the glory of our hope to the end.
Now the first commandment had the law of Jehovah, and the order of a holy commandment.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who will answer me if thy father answereth thee?
Go after peace with all men, and holiness, that no man shall see Jehovah.
They wandered in waste places, and in hills, and in holes in the rocks; for whom the world was not good enough.
that this shall be no grief unto thee, nor a trespass of heart unto my lord, that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself: but when Jehovah will have dealt well with my lord, remember thine handmaid.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after these thieves, and will I overtake them, or not? And Jehovah said unto him, Follow after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and thou shalt recover the prey.
He keepeth the feet of his saints; And the wicked are silent in darkness; For man is not mighty in power.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell us, what is this wickedness?
And her husband set out, and went after her to speak kindly unto her, to bring her back, and took with him his servant and a couple of asses; and she brought him to her father's house; and the father of the young woman saw him, and was glad to meet him.
Neither is he made a vow, that he was priest;
And when David heard that he was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath avenged the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for Jehovah hath brought back the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to wife.
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of the Lord in Shiloh, the priest of the priests, did not know that Jonathan was gone.
And he took a young man of Succoth, and inquired of him; and he wrote for him the chief men of Succoth, and the elders thereof seventy men.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah raised up judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it repented the Lord for their sakes, because of them that oppressed them, and vexed them.
and Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the brother of Shua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, which had the ephod; and they knew not that Jonathan was gone.
For finding fault, he saith unto them, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah; and I will make a new covenant for the house of Israel, and for the house of Judah.
But exhort ye one another day, while the day is called, that none of you be made hard by the deceit of the sin,
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever: neither when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
And all the children of Israel went out, and gathered themselves together as one man from Dan to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, to the Lord at Mizpah.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou after my name, seeing it is hid?
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and in her cities, and in Aroer, and her cities, and in all the cities that are by the coasts of the Arnon three hundred years? why then did ye not recover them in that time?
Behold, here is my daughter a maid, and his concubine: behold, I will bring out now, and afflict them, and do with them what seemeth good unto thee: but unto this man do not so wickedly.
Salute every one that is holy in Christ Jesus.
And he said unto them, If thou wilt do this thing, I will not rest unless I take vengeance upon thee.
And he said unto his servant, Run, I pray thee, find the arrows that I may shoot. And he ran, and shot the arrow upon him.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
Let thy countenance be known unto all men; The Lord is nigh.
But Sisera fled upon his feet unto the tent of Manasseh the wife of Heber the Jebusite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenites.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city, and began to smite the people, slaying as at the former times, in the way that leadeth to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of the children of Israel.
Thy fathers tempted me, And proved my works.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do unto the ark of Jehovah? tell us, wherewith we shall send it to his place.
And it came to pass, when he came to him, that he sat by himself alone, saying, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from his throne.
and call to your remembrance the former days, in which ye have been enlightened, ye have endured much of sorrows,
by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that were disobedient; for she received the spies in peace.
But the pride of her that is in Israel shall riot, and shall not be moved to repentance: for he is not a girdle that he should repent.
And Saul said unto his servant, But if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and we have no gift to the man of God: what have we?
And the trees set forth the king over themselves, and said to the olive tree, Arise over us.
And of those that were in Aroer, unto the moth, and unto the moth of Eshtemoa,
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words: for I feared the people, and hearkened to their voice.
Let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his strength. And the land rested forty years.
And they came to their brethren at Zareah and Eshtaol: and their brethren said unto them, What ye?
And Saul and all the people that were with him were gathered together, and came to the battle; and, behold, they were all smiting each other with their swords in very great confusion.
Behold, my cry shall come up unto Jehovah, and his cry shall come up unto Jehovah, and he shall send rain and rain; and thou shalt know, and know thy great sin, which thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, to make a king for yourselves.
Thou hast loved justice and hated iniquity; Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
For by one oblation he hath made perfect unto the end those sanctified:
And when he saw that it was the angel of Jehovah, he said, Alas, my Lord Jehovah: for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
that they said unto him, Say thou, I pray thee, rebuke. And he said, The cock is not ready, but is not ready to speak right; and they take hold of him, and kill him at the fords of the Jordan; and they fall at that time from Ephraim, forty and two princes.
So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Shimron.
If a man sin against a man, then God will pray for him: and if a man sin against Jehovah, who will pray for him? But they did not obey their father, because Jehovah wanted to slay them.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed art thou, O David my son: thou shalt not only do many things, but prosper always. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
Seeing then that the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he himself also took part of the same, that through death he might destroy him, having the power of death, that is, the devil.
And unto them that were in Aroer, and in the bath, and in the bath,
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me good; but I have rewarded thee for the evil.
And those things which ye have heard and received, and have heard, and seen in me, do; and the God of peace shall be with you.
And David left the vessels which he had brought, and under the hand of the guard, and ran to the place of the battle, and asked whether all things went well with his brethren.
I sent him therefore, that when ye see him again ye shall rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto him, Behold, people come down from the top of the mountains. And the parable said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains, as if they were men.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel saw the evil that they were in, that the people were troubled; and they took up their holes in the hills, and in the rocks, and in the rocks, and in the holes, and in holes, and in holes.
And David said unto the men that stood by him, What shall be done unto the man that smiteth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
But Moses waxed great, and did not be called a son of the daughter of Pharaoh.
But if I live in flesh, this is for me; and what I choose I can not tell.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, my father's house in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; then go thy way: for Jehovah hath sent you away.
Salute them that are princes over you, and to all the saints; for they that are in Italy send ye their love.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the fowls of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
And he made a ephod of them, and put it in his city, in the city of Ophrah; and all Israel went there a whoring after it; and it became a snare to break down, and to his house.
And he inquired of the Lord, and gave him bread, and put in his hand the sword of Goliath the Gittite.
Neither man nor woman spared David, to bring in to Gath, saying, Lest they accuse us, saying, Thus hath David done, and so did his custom all the days that he dwelt in the fields of the Philistines.
When the words were heard which David spake, they told them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, think this way: if in anything ye think otherwise, God will also reveal unto you.
For he that sanctify and those sanctified all one, for which cause he not be ashamed to call them brethren,
that he might set them free, that by fear of death were under bondage all their life.
She put forth her hand to the nail, and her right hand for the hammer; and she smote with Sisera, and crushed his head, and brake, and slew his temple.
And he said unto them, I will not reign over you, neither shall my son rule over you; but Jehovah shall reign over you.
And the woman hasted, and ran and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me that came unto me the second day.
For when all the commandment was spoken by Moses unto all the people according to the law, he took the blood of oxen with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book, and all the people;
And Jehoahaz the son of Joash died at a good old age; and he was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the place of the old; and in the name of his father was Ophrah.
And it came to pass, when God was upon Saul, that David had taken the harp and played with his hand, and Saul had strength and gladness, and the spirit of mourning turned away from him.
how much more, thinkest ye, shall he be condemned that hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and esteemed the blood of the covenant, whereby he is sanctified and common, and hath blasphemed the Spirit of grace?
And after Abimelech went up to save Israel: Tola the son of Jvah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in the hill country of Ephraim.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and builded there an altar, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings.
But faith worketh that which is waiting for, the proof which is not seen.
For he that sanctify and those that are sanctified are all of one: for he is not ashamed to call them brethren.
And he smote them with a great slaughter; and he went down, and dwelt in the top of the rock of Etam.
And it came to pass, when they had brought it round about, that the hand of Jehovah was upon the city, a very great destruction; and he smote the men of the city from small even unto great, and brake forth upon them.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, which shall come upon thy two sons, upon the fifth of the Hebronites, and upon Phinehas; in one day they shall die, both of them.
Then said he unto her, The razor shall not come upon my head; for I am a Nazarite, that say, hallowed unto God from my mother's womb; if my head be shaved, my strength shall depart from me, and I shall be weak, and be like other men.
And one that was wiser than the other women, returned unto her mother-in-law, saying,
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, And his ministers a flame of fire.
and in nothing be ye afraid of the adversaries: for unto them is a cause of destruction, but unto you of salvation, and this from God.
But they said, How can this man deliver us? And they despised him, and brought no gift unto him; but he kept silence.
At the sound of my horn, and the horns of them that are with me, let your horns be sounded round about the camp, and say, Jehovah, and upon the altar.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had come in the south, and in Ziklag, and smote in Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house unto the age; neither shalt Jehovah cut off the enemies of David from off the face of the earth.
And the cities, which the Philistines had taken from Israel, were restored unto Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and to their borders; and he saved Israel from the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And he said, I have sinned: I pray thee, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may serve Jehovah your God.
So the young men returned, and went and told him all these words.
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell on his sword, and died with him.
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, There shall not one of us give his daughter to the children of Benjamin as wife.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
and being found in man, he humbled himself, being obedient to death, Yea, the death of the cross.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was troubled; and his heart was troubled.
Being increased more than the angels, as he hath inherited a greater name than they.
And she laid him down upon her knees; and she called for a man, and shaved off the seven hair of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went out from him.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me, to bring me up? And Saul said, I am troubled, and the Philistines fight against me; God hath turned aside from me, and hath not answered me any more, either by the hand of the prophets, or by the dream; and I call for thee, that I may know what I do.
And being faint, he made for himself sin for himself, and for the people.
And it came to pass, when all the commandment of the law was read by Moses unto all the people, that he took the blood of the bullocks, and the goats, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and sprinkled the book, and all the people;
Having been so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a greater name than they are.
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor; and they sent messengers in the land of the Philistines to preach the victory in the house of their idols, and to the people.
And the children of Ephraim came together, and took up arms, and went to the north; and they said unto them, Why did ye go over to make war against the children of Ammon, and not send for us to go with you? and we will lay thy house upon you.
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There is not a razor upon my head; for I am a Nazarite of God from my mother's womb: if I should be shaven, then my strength would go from me, and I should be weak, and be like all flesh.
So arise ye up by night, thou and the host that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field.
And the angel of Jehovah stretched out the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh, and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of Jehovah departed out of his presence.
And when the children of Israel saw that it was too hard for them, because the people were sore pressed, the people hid themselves in the caves, and in the thorns, and in the rocks, and in the treasuries, and in the wells.
And they took the nail of the tent, and took a hammer, and went in softly, and put the nail upon the head of his head, and smote it with the hammer, and thrust it through his neck into the ground: and so he went down from deep sleep to death, and died, and died.
And Micah bare the Levites; and the young man was his priest, and he was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah, and asked the Lord, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah; and he built the first altar unto Jehovah.
And God opened the hollow place which was in a den, and water came out of it, and he drank; and his spirit came back, and he died: therefore called his name, The fountain of him that calleth, which is called unto this day.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David beheld the place where Saul was, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay in the midst of the den, and the people were encamped round about him.
Wherefore, as many as are perfect, let us take hold of this: and if thou think any more, God will reveal this unto you.
And when the cart came into the field of Joshua, a city of Beth-, and stood there, there was a great stone; and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the cattle a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And Deborah the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, made this song, saying,
And the border shall be upon the north, and the pillar shall be at Michmash, and the other on the south side southward.
Now having a great high priest passed through the heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession;
And David said unto him, What have I done? what hast thou found in thy servant, that thou hast been before thee to this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
He shall keep the feet of his saints; And the wicked shall be quiet in darkness; For by strength no man shall prevail.
And the servants of Saul spake all these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a small matter to thee to be the king's son in law? but I am a poor man, and I am a poor man.
And Saul said, It is not a man to be put to death this day: for this day Jehovah hath established Israel.
For the copy of the law, which is a poor part of the things which should be done, is not able to make the people that come unto the altar all the year with the same oblations.
that she may not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: let her keep all that I have commanded her.
And he said unto her, Arise, let us go; but there was no answer. So he put her upon the ass, and the man arose, and went to his place.
And when the Philistines rose, and came and came to meet David, David hasted, and ran to meet the Philistines.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and appoint a king for them. And Samuel spake unto the children of Israel, saying, Go every man unto his own city.
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan before Ephraim; and it came to pass, that when the outcasts of Ephraim said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou one of Ephraim? And he said, No.
And thou shalt call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will make known unto thee what thou shalt do: thou shalt anoint me with the one whom I say unto thee.
And the servants of God said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And she said unto Shammah, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lying: now tell me, that thou mayest be bound.
And he said, Behold, seventy kings, and their thumbs, and their great toes, shall be gathered under my table; as I have done that God recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
For a man hath found his enemy, but sent him on his way safely: now may Jehovah reward thee with good in return unto this day, for what thou hast done for me.
And he made a great slaughter of them, that they laid the calf of the thigh upon the thigh; and he went down, and dwelt in a den of Etam.
And he said, I have devoured them with the jaw of an ass, With the jaw of the ass of asses, And have slain a thousand men.
according to my expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be put to shame, but with all confidence, as always; so also shall Christ be magnified in my body, and be rooted by life, or by death.
Now I desire you, brethren, that ye should know that the things which have happened unto me have fallen rather unto the end of the gospel.
So the children of Israel gave up the bow of Baal, and Ashtaroth, and the fear of Jehovah only.
And Saul clothed David with his raiment; and he put a chain of brass upon his head, and wrapped him with a coat of mail.
Do all things without murmuring and controversies;
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent, and it shall be if any one come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
And Jonathan said unto him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and thou shalt look after it; for thy throne is behind thee.
And it came to pass that day, that they smote the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people fainted from hunger.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of it, what the Philistines had done to Saul,
But it is clear unto you, that as a child is unto his father, so he helped me in the work of the Gospel.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and made themselves odious more than their fathers, and followed other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them: they did not cease from their own doings, nor from their own imagination.
And behold, a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone from above, and dashed it upon the head of Abimelech, and brake his head.
And I said, Behold, I come, in the book of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God.
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the cave of Etam, and said to the king, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are princes over us? and what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And the king said unto her, Fear not. What seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up from the earth.
And Abimelech and the company that were with him went forward, and stood in the entering of the gate; and the two companies ran upon all the people that were in the field, and slew them.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been the keeper of his father's sheep; and if a lion or a bear came, and take a lamb from the flock,
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And David believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him: therefore shall he be my servant for ever.
And he smote the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
And the hair of his head was beginning after it had been cut off.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be in thee; and Saul my father knoweth that also.
that by two tables tables are impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong comfort, who have fled for a place to take hold of the hope set before us.
And thy daughters he shall make to make him ointments, and to make him his bed and his baker.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, the new moon is to-morrow; and I will sit with the king to eat, and thou hast sent me away, and I am hid in a field until the third even.
And Jotham fled, and fled to Beer-sheba, and dwelt there for the fear of Abimelech his brother.
And he went into the house of his father in Ophrah, and slew his brethren, the sons of Jerubbesheth, seventy men, even one stone; and Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth was left, for he was hid.
And David sent messengers, and knew that Saul came to Nachon.
And he said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? take away thy wine.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon had made war against Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to fetch themselves out of the land of Tob:
My heart is to the law of Israel; And he that offereth himself willingly among the people, Bless ye Jehovah.
And they took two chief princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb in the rock of Oreb, and like Zeeb; and they went after Midian, and went after Midian, and took the heads of Oreb and Zeeb, unto the end of the Jordan.
And Jonathan bare himself of the upper robe which was upon him, and gave it to David, and his coat, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
Wherefore let us fear, while there remaineth a word of promise, that none of you shall fall short of it.
And Micah said, I know that Jehovah will make me prosperous, because the Levites are my priest.
For yet a very little while; and he that cometh shall come, and shall not delay.
And Abimelech answered and said unto the king, Who among all thy servants is true unto thee, as David, who is the son-in-law of the king, and is a captain of thine armed men, and hath a place in thy house?
And they turned aside thither, and came to the house of the Levites, to the house of Micah, and asked him how he did.
And the people of Beth Shemesh drew up their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the old man saith, Peace unto thee; only, all thy lack shall be in me, only in the broad place.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: ye have seen that my eyes are light, because I have tasted a little of this honey.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have here at hand, the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that I may give unto the man of God, to shew us our way.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? and what hath he done?
And the five men went, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were there, how they dwelt in the way of the Zidonians, and quiet, and secure; for there was no man in the land, and had dominion over them, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no dealings with any other.
But if I also be poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and in your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice in common with you all.
that ye may be innocent and simple, that ye may not reprove the children of God in the midst of a perverse and crooked generation; among whom ye appear as lights in the world,
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, In this manner did David speak.
But I am hard pressed between the two things, having the desire to depart and to be with Christ: for this is very much better.
And his mother made him a little robe, and brought it unto him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the sacrifice of the sacrifice.
So then, brethren, being able to go into the holy place without fear, because of the blood of Jesus;
And he said, This shall be the way of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and for his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots.
and he died, and was buried in Bethlehem.
And it came to pass, that the sign was between the men of Israel, and the plague between the men of Israel; and they went up, and made a pillar of smoke out of the city.
And David rose up, and the people that were with him, and wept, until they had no power to weep.
In which ye tempted me your fathers, they have proved me, and have seen my works forty years:
For the word of God is living and working, and of all that are in him, than that which is] a two-edged sword, even unto the dividing of soul and of the spirit, of both the work and the marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and the thoughts of the heart.
And when they rose up early in the morning, Samuel called to Saul on the housetop, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went forth without, he and Samuel.
And the man departed from the city, from Bethlehem Judah, to sojourn where he might find a place; and as he journeyed, he came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And the spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, and he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was with his hand.
And unto Hananiah he gave a portion twice; for he loved Hananiah, and the Lord shut her womb.
Whereas he dwelt in Heshbon, and the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and in the villages thereof, and in all the cities of the Jordan, for three hundred years; and why hast thou been in vain?
Be not stubborn, as in the day that ye provoked me, On the day of testing in the wilderness,
at the end of these days hath spoken unto us in the man of the Son, whom he hath established over all things, by whom also he made the world.
the multitude also gathered, and to the assembly of the firstborn, and to God, judge of all; and to the spirits of righteousness made perfect;
And the fire went up toward heaven from the altar, and the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar to heaven; and Adam and his wife watched, and fell on their faces to the ground.
And David left his baggage in the hand of the king's stuff, and ran to the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
And Shammah took hold of the two pillars upon which the house stood; and he stood up upon them, the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
For I do not have any other mind, that will regard you.
And so she did all the year, when the time returned that they went up to the house of Jehovah; and she provoked her, and she wept, and did not eat.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name? and when thy words come to pass, we will glorify thee.
And he said unto him, Far be it from it, for thou shalt not die: behold, my father doeth nothing great or small, unless he show it to me: why should my father hide this thing, or anything from me?
Receive him therefore with all joy in the Lord, and magnify him as he is.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty men, and they were with him.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
And unto Jesus was the mediator of the new testament, and of the blood of sprinkling, than of Abel.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Jebusite, and the Amalekites: for these were the people that dwelt in the land from Seir to Shur, as far as Egypt.
And he said, I have sinned: but now I pray before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and come again with me, that I may serve Jehovah your God.
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to make war against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was in great trouble.
Yea, my sons, for it is not good that I hear: Ye make the people of Jehovah transgress.
And God turned back all the evil of the men of Shechem upon their head, and came unto them the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
And it came to pass, when the first time came to pass, that Jonathan and his servant put the sword to the edge of twenty men in the land of Gilead.
And Jehovah smote them before the children of Israel; and they slew of them that day five and twenty thousand, and one hundred men of war, and that drew the sword.
And the Arkite sent again unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying,
And the Lord was not yet known, but the word of Jehovah was not known unto him.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, If thou bring me back to battle against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah giveth them unto me, will I be your head?
And he took the elders of the city, and smote them with thorns and with harrows of thorns.
Remember ye the former things that have spoken the word of God unto you, whose faith follow them, and consider the end of their conversation;
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the den of Etam, and said to Jason, Hast thou known that the Philistines are princes over us? and what hast thou done to us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so did I to them.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel had gathered at Mizpah, the princes of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard of it, and were afraid of the Philistines.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David; and Jehovah required it at the hand of David's enemies.
Jehovah therefore left all these nations, and would not quickly destroy them, neither did he deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
And he restored the money to his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the goldsmith, who made them a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
While they were merry, and refreshed their bodies with meat and drinking, the men of the city, the sons of Belial ( that is, the sons of Belial) came and besieged the old man's house, and cried to the master of the house, and said, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may vex him.
Now Samuel did not know Jehovah, Neither was the word of Jehovah yet openly.
And Benjamin returned at that time, and gave unto them the women, whom they kept alive from Gilead; but they were not sufficient for them.
but come to the mountain of Zion, to the place of the living God, to the Jerusalem which is in heaven, and to an army of angels, which can not be numbered;
For the rest, my brethren, be glad in the Lord: for there is no evil in you, but in your salvation.
by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that did not believe, having received the spies with peace.
And men of Kiriath-jearim came and fetched the ark of Jehovah, and carried it into the house of Abinadab in Gibeah; and they sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when it was come to pass, that he began to break the wool, and filled it with the dew.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people concerning all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but have rejected me from being king over them.
And he found a piece of a ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and smote with it a thousand men.
For by one offering he hath made perfect for ever them that are sanctified.
For the word of God is full of power, and of power, and of power, than that which is of a two-edged sword, and of the body, and of the spirit, and of the bones, and of the body, and of the bones, and of the thoughts of the heart.
and I took my bread, and my water, and my flesh, which I slew for my shearers, and gave to men, whom I knew not whence they.
And they came to the mountains, and behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And David put his hand into the bag, and took thence a stone, and foul it, and smote the Philistines in his forehead, and the stone descended into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
And Saul sent his servants to Jesse, and said, Send forth thy son David, who is with the sheep.
And when Samuel was dead, all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, his city. And Saul had put away all the magicians and wizards out of the land.
In the days of Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, in the days of Jai, The highways were past, and the wayfaring men by the highways went astray.
All these came to their end in faith, not having the inheritance: but when they saw it afar off, they testified that they were wanderers and not of the earth.
And he answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy prayer which thou hast asked of him.
Give ear unto the women that laugh at the waters of waters; There shall they again declare the righteousness of Jehovah, All the upright acts of his arm in Israel.
As thou goest with me this day, thou shalt find two men in the land of Benjamin, in the land of Benjamin: and they shall say unto thee, The asses that ye went to search for have been found: behold, thy father is not jealous of the asses, and is anxious about thee, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: give me two months, that I may go to the mountains, and lament against my virginity, I and my companions.
not as though I had attained, but had been already perfect: but I follow after, if so be that I may understand that for which also I am borne of Christ Jesus.
And David heard in the wilderness, that the Carmelite was shearing his flock.
But now they seek a better, that is, a heavenly; wherefore God is not ashamed of them to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the men of Israel to his tent, but they were not with him three hundred men; and the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
that we also may be as all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And Saul sent messengers to David in that night, to keep him in the morning, that he might put him to death in the morning. And Michal the wife of David said unto him, If thou wilt not go out to a place in the night, thou shalt be put to death in the morning.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If with all your heart ye turn to Jehovah, and take away the foreign gods, and cut off the foreign gods out of the midst of you, and put your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him, that he may deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the lords of the Philistines brought up unto her seven green things that had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
But if ye are without instruction, of which all have been made partakers, then are ye uncircumcised, and not children.
how will we escape, if we should forget the great deliverance, which is at the beginning of the Lord, being confirmed unto us by those that have heard;
they were stoned, they were opened asunder; and they were tried; and they died in the slaughter of the sword: they went about rams' skins, and in the juice of badgers, and were afflicted, and afflicted, and despised.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a man a Levite, a sojourner in the hill-country of Ephraim; and he took unto him a wife, a concubine, out of the house of Judah.
And ye see that Nahash king of the children of Ammon came against you, and ye say unto me, Nay; but a king reigneth over us, and Jehovah your God is thy king.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty men with him.
But the princes of the Philistines were angry with him, and they said unto him, Let this man return, and abide in his place, which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be an adversary to us, when we begin to fight; for how can he not pacify his master, but with our heads?
And she put him to sleep upon her knees; and she called the men, and shaved off the seven hair of his head; and she began to subdue him, and his strength departed from him.
And he stripped himself also of his garments, and prophesied with the rest before Samuel, and lay naked all that day and night; and this was a parable to them, saying, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods, which I made, and ye go away; and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants about killing David: but Jonathan the son of Saul pleased David very much.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Heli, and Ophni, and Phinehas, were slain.
And David rose in the morning, and gave the charge of the flock to the porter; and David went aside, and went away, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the place of Miletus, and the army that went out to fight, and cried for the battle.
And her lord rose in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go on his way; and, behold, the woman, his concubine, fell at the door of the house, and her hands upon the door.
But as to which of the angels said he ever, Sit at my right hand, Till I put thine enemies under thy feet?
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
For indeed we have had good tidings preached unto us, even as they also did; but the word they heard not, because it was not mingled with faith by them that heard.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore have ye come up against us? And they said, To bind up the son, to do unto him as he did unto us.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's house in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
And I am persuaded in the Lord that I also will come shortly.
For to which of the angels did he say, Thou art my son, to-day I have begotten thee, and said, I will be his father, and he shall be my son.
And the children of Benjamin came out of Geba, and slew the children of Israel that day two and twenty thousand men.
For they all follow after things, and not after the things of Christ.
and when Jehovah will have done unto thee, my lord, all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and will have made thee ruler over Israel;
And it came to pass, when the messengers came, that they saw the image that was upon the bed with the hair of goats' hair at the head.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron, the name of Hebron, before Arba; and they slew thence thence, and Ahiman, and Talmai, and Talmai.
And David said unto Job, If I pray thee, I have found grace in thine eyes, they give me a place in one of the cities of the field, and I dwell there; why doth thy servant dwell in the king's city with thee?
And this cause is by him, that a new covenant is come, that after the law was taken away by his death, the word of God might be fulfilled unto them that were chosen for an everlasting inheritance.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem, to the house of his mother; and he said unto them, and to the house of his mother's father,
but empty himself, and took the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men.
And the Philistines said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And we smote the king of the Cherethites, and the land of Judah, and the south of Caleb; and we burned him with fire.
And the children of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Samuel lieth until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah; and Samuel was afraid of declaring the vision to him.
And Saul's uncle said unto him, And to his young man, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and we see that they are not; and we come to Samuel.
and said, I came to the house of Benjamin with my wife, and there I lodged:
And the time appointed for the men of Israel with the ambush was that they sent up a great quantity of smoke out of the city.
What is it then? in every way, whether in appearance or in truth, Christ is preached; and in this I rejoice, yea, I also will rejoice.
Thus saith the parable, Israel hath not taken away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
and answered and said, It is true that thou art good in my eyes, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to battle.
And David arose secretly, and came to the place where Saul was; and when he saw the place where Saul slept, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army, and Saul slept in a tent, and the rest of the multitude round about him,
So Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and lay in wait against Shechem in four bands.
And David said unto Saul, Why do thou hear the words of the people that say, Behold, David seeketh to do thee evil?
and I will go and take my place by my father's presence in the field where thou art; and I will speak with thee with my father; and when I see what is, I will give thee word.
And there was a certain man of Ramah, whose name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of Ephraim,
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words that were sent unto him.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron; and the name of Hebron before was called Hebron; and they slew thence of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And he said unto them, What have I done now in you? Is not the cluster of the cluster of Ephraim better than the cluster of Abiezer?
Now this man went up from his city year by year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh, where the two sons of Heli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, were priests to Jehovah.
For it is impossible that with the blood of the ox and of the goats sin shall be taken away.
And he said, Ye have taken my gods, which I made, and my priest, and have gone away; what is there for me now? why do ye say unto me, What is thy trouble?
And all that generation were gathered unto their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, who knew not the Lord, nor the works which he had done for Israel.
and all that were left of all the camp of the east, as well as Zebah, and as Zalmunna; and all that were left of all the camp of the east; and they fell a hundred and twenty thousand men of war.
There is straw and provender for our asses, and bread and wine for me, for thy handmaid, and for the young man that is with thy servant; there is no lack of anything.
For every priest the chief priest, to offer the offering and the sacrifice, he shall give to this man a thing that he may offer.
Peradventure now he shall divide the spoil, and the most beautiful of the women: and the garments of divers colours shall be given unto him; and he shall be for his prey, and for the vessels of divers kinds.
And Jehovah said unto him, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel triumph against me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that sought a king of him.
And Jehovah let the nations dwell in the land, and did not utterly drive them out, neither delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
And he went to the house of his father in Ophrah; and he slew his brethren, the sons of Baal, seventy males, on one stone; but Jotham the youngest of Baal was left, because he hid himself.
And from that day forward he made it a statute and a statute for Israel unto this day.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept much.
And they were already far from the house of Micah, when the men that were in the houses of the house of Micah were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And the people went upon the prey, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
There is no transgression in Meribah, That which is less is blessed.
and if the daughters of Shiloh come out to take part in the dance, then come from the vineyards, and take a wife for every one of you from among the daughters of Shiloh, and go again to the land of Benjamin.
And it came to pass, when thou comest to pass, that he came to the Jordan, and passed over it with his three hundred men, and waxed weary, and lacked bread.
And over the sons of his father he took place, threescore and ten; for he had many wives.
And the Philistines gathered themselves with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people as the sand upon the seashore; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, on the east side of Beth Aven.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the people of Ashdod, and he made them desolate, and smote them with saws, and Ashdod, and its borders.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did what was right in his own eyes.
And he called upon Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, and restore unto me now my strength, O my God, that I may avenge myself upon mine enemies, and for the loss of my two eyes will I take one revenge.
And when the king heard the dream, and the interpretation thereof, he worshipped; and he returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered the camp of Midian into our hands.
And they took what Micah had made, and his priest; and they came to Laish, to a quiet and certain people, and put them to the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And the highway went toward Beth-horon, and one went toward the way toward the valley toward the wilderness, toward the wilderness.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Verily, as for women, we have kept ourselves from yesterday and the day before, when we came forth, and the vessels of the young men were holy. Now this manner is defiled, but it shall be holy to this day in the vessels.
For Jehovah liveth, who hath redeemed Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die; and no man shall answer him among all the people.
I said, The Philistines have come down unto me unto Gilgal, and have not prayed unto Jehovah; and I have driven myself, and I have sacrificed the burnt-offering.
When ye come into the city, straightway ye shall find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice; and afterward they eat that which is bidden. Now therefore get ye up; for at this hour ye shall find him.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh, and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our portion shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
In the year of the year, in the year of the year, there is a remembrance of the sins of Jehovah.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead; and the children of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And he refused, and said, I eat not. And his servants besought him, and also the woman, and he heard their voice, and rose up from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
So Jehovah left the nations, and thrust them out in haste, and delivered them not into Joshua's hand.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus by my face unto you.
if thus they say unto us, Stand still until we come unto thee; then we have stood in our place, and go not up unto them.
And he said unto him, Thus saith the parable, Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
Why did thou not hear the voice of Jehovah, but fell upon the spoil, and did evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And Saul heard, and all Israel, the words of the Philistines, and they were broken with fear.
And David took from Jezreel, Ahinoam; and they were both of them, to him for wives.
Blessed is thy judgment, and blessed art thou, who hast kept me to-day from blood, and from my own hand.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots put with rods; and for twenty years he had oppressed them.
Be always in all my prayers, making supplication for you all,
And Saul and the men of Israel gathered themselves together, and pitched themselves in the valley of Elah; and they prepared the battle to meet the Philistines.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel the day before Saul came, saying,
And the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, and said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to him for a wife.
And Saul said unto his servant, Come, let us go. And they went into the city of the man of God.
And thou shalt not depart from here until I come unto thee, and bring forth my gift, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou return.
Are they not found, and divide the spoil? A bed, or two lying, for every man, and for the attire of Sisera, and for the spoil of old garments, and of broidered garments, and of broidered garments, and in the neck of the destroyer?
Neither is there a thing that is made manifest before him, but all things that are naked, and open unto his eyes, with whom is our reckoning.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein, and smote the city, and sowed it with salt.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened Eglon, king of Moab against Israel, because they did evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And it shall come to pass, when their fathers and their brethren come to us, that we may say unto them, Give them good unto us; for we have not taken for every man his wife in the war, neither have thou given them unto them, lest ye be guilty.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he laid them waste, and smote them with saws, and with harrows of Ashdod, and with the borders thereof.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed and of thy vineyards, and give to his chamberlains, and to his servants.
And he judged Israel three and twenty years: and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the assembly gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beersheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And David was very sorrowful; for the people had said to stone him, for the soul of all the people was bitter, every man for his sons and for his daughters; and David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And David said unto him, Now thou shalt know what thy servant will do. And he said unto David, I will appoint thee to keep my life for ever.
Be ye followers of me, brethren, and keep them in the way, as ye have us, as ye have.
For reckon again him that endured such things from the sinners to himself, that ye may not be weary in your souls, being faint.
And they gave unto him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, and Abimelech went with them men: they were vain and unstable; and they went after him.
and that which is borne with thorns and thorns, and that is near to curse, whose end is to burn;
So that when he came into the world, he saith, Ye had no desire for offering, but ye made a body for me;
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and went after the Philistines, until thou comest into the valley, and unto the gate of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Calneh, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
and ye have seen, if the way of its own border it goeth up to Beth-shemesh, he hath done unto us this great evil; and if not, then we know that his hand is not come against us; for it is known against us.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Art thou not Abner? And Abner answered, Who art thou that cry unto the king?
And when they came to Mizpah, they came to his house; and his only daughter met him with timbrels and with dances; for he had no children.
And there shall be no need for every man to teach his brother or his neighbour, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah: for they shall all know me, great and small.
And Ehud went forth into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and bolted them.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spake these words in the ears of the people; and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
So David rose up, and his men, six hundred men, and went forth from Keilah, and went to the place whither they should go; and when Saul told him that David had escaped from Keilah, he left his pursuit.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day, What is better than honey more than honey? what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If thou hadst not plowed with my heifer, thou wouldest not find out my riddle.
For it is vain for the blood of bulls, And for the goats to take away sins.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon; and they gathered of them five thousand men in the highways, and pursued after them until time, and slew two thousand men of them.
And make straight paths for your feet, that the weak be not turned out of the way, but be strengthened.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avengeth me; but mine hand shall not be upon thee.
And they said, Behold, every year there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is toward the north of Bethel, on the east side of the highway, which goeth up from Bethel to Shechem, and on the south side of the wall.
By faith he went out of Egypt, and did not fear the king's wrath; for he endured, as seeing him that is not of God.
and the men that had not died fell with the prey, and the cry of the city ascended up into heaven.
Now in those days, when there was no king in Israel, a Levite dwelt in the midst of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he chose a concubine of Bethlehem in Judah.
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto the king, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And he smote seventy men among the men of Bethshemesh, because they looked into the ark of Jehovah: and the people mourned, because Jehovah had smitten a great blow among the people.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay lying in the chariot, with his spear stuck in the ground; and Abner and the people lay round about him.
For we want to sin after the knowledge of the truth, that there is no more sin for sin.
And they took the ark of God, and brought it unto the house of Dagon, and put it in the house of Dagon.
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the king in the heavens;
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then the hand of Jehovah shall be against you, as it was against your fathers.
And the men of war, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outermost part of the camp in the beginning of the midst of the camp; and they blew the trumpets, and blew the trumpets, and brake in pieces the vessels that were in their hands.
not as the covenant which I made with their fathers, when I took them by the hand, to lead them out of the land of Egypt: for they kept not the covenant with me, and I gave them up, saith Jehovah.
but we see Jesus; for a little while is made lower than the angels, because of the sufferings of death, and glory and glory, that he might die for all men.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land, became Israel's.
And Jonathan said unto David, Whatsoever thy soul shall say to me, I will do for thee.
And Jonathan went forth early in the morning to the field for David; and there was a young child with him.
if I also have confidence in the flesh, if any man think that he may have confidence in the flesh, I am more,
And Jehovah said to him, The people are many, bring them down to the water, and I will try them for thee there, and it shall be, that of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I shall say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
And they compassed the children of Benjamin round about, and chased them, and trode them down at Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Bethlehem, and was there a time, four months.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, as he had nine hundred iron chariots, and oppressed the children of Israel for twenty years.
And he dwelt in the land, and dwelt in the land with Isaac and Jacob, the sons of Jacob.
And the word of Samuel was to all Israel; and Israel went out to meet the Philistines for battle; and they encamped by flatteries; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
And the old man said, Peace unto thee; I will take care of thy needs; but thou shalt not lodge in the street.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul with power, and his wrath was kindled.
And David was the youngest; and the three elder followed after Saul.
And David went up thence, and dwelt in the palaces of En Gedi.
Therefore my brethren, beloved, and very beloved unto me, be strong in the Lord, my beloved.
And it came to pass, when the fire went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended upon the flame of the altar; and man and his wife watched; and they fell upon their faces to the ground.
And Malchijah was yet in the loins of his father, and Malchijah met him.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened things, and set it upon this rock, and broth shall be poured out. And he doeth so.
And it came to pass, when the spirit of the spirit of God came to Saul, that David would take the harp and play it with his hand, that it might bring relief upon Saul, and that he might recover, and the evil spirit should depart from him.
And Abraham tempted Isaac by faith; and he that received the promises offered his only child.
who, being the glory of his glory, the true image of his substance, supporting all things by the word of his power, having given himself to sanctification from sins, took his seat at the right hand of God in heaven;
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, which is called Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh; and he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and of Beth-ath, have become tributary.
not of good things, and of fellowship, and of peace; for with such sacrifices God is well-pleasing.
For we have no city for ever: but we seek the city that is to come.
And thou hast showed me how good thou art unto me this day: for when Jehovah hath delivered me into thy hand, thou hast not put me to death.
And Saul cast his spear; for he said, I will also take David even to the wall. And David escaped from his presence.
And God hearkened to the voice of a man; and the angel of God came again to the woman, and she sat in a field, and her husband was not with her.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee: thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be the second to thee: my father Saul knoweth also this.
For a sin of divination, and transgression, and iniquity, and teraphim; because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he also will cast thee off from the king.
Even as Zebah and Zalmunna said, Arise, put an end unto us: for thou art a man's strength: then thou shalt arise, and destroy thee, and destroy thee, and destroy thee, and put thy ornaments upon thy camels.
And they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the ark with the golden images.
For Jehovah will smite his adversaries; He will thunder against them in the heavens; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth: He will give strength to his king, and will magnify the might of his anointed one.
And David said, What have I done now? is it not a word?
And the son of Amasa came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their trust in him.
And all the men of Israel rose up, and encamped against Baal Tamar; and they that stood in ambush came out of their place on the west side of Geba.
And it came to pass, that there was a question to Ebed-melech, saying, Arise, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath redeemed thee; behold, he is thy governor: behold, he went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men with him.
Now therefore give up the men, the children of Belial, which in Gibeah, and we put them to death, and we put away evil from Israel. And the children of Benjamin would not hear the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
The Lord giveth riches, and taketh the spoil of a man; He breaketh men down, and bringeth them up again.
and let us run one another at all times to love and good works.
Be not so, my sons: for it is not good that I hear, that ye make the people of Jehovah to transgress.
And the priest gave him the holy bread: there was no other, but the holy bread, which was taken from before Jehovah; that the new bread should be put in the day when it was taken away.
And he said unto her, What is his image? And she said, Behold, an old man cometh up, and he covereth himself with a robe. And Saul knew that he was called Samuel, and bowed down to thee ground, and did obeisance.
And the people rose early in the morning, and made an altar there, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the cities of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote Ashdod, and the borders thereof, and in the villages, and in the fields, in the midst of that country; and there came forth a multitude of abominations, and there was a great plague in the city.
And they rose up, and went up to Bethel, and inquired of God; and the children of Israel said, Who goeth up for us at the beginning to battle with the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah saith, At the beginning.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that spoiled them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about; and they could no longer stand before their enemies.
And all the men of Shechem gathered themselves together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the oak of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, went in flight, and were afraid.
But he rose up to depart, and his father with the law pressed him, and made him to remain with him.
And he committed fornication against him his concubine; and she went from him unto the house of her father, unto the house of her father; and there was days for four months.
And she said, Deal with me, my lord: as thou livest, my lord, I am the woman that stood with thee to pray unto Jehovah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: they forgot Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim, and the Asherah.
and the gold also, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, the five cities of the Philistines, and the fortified cities, and the villages, even unto the great stone of Abel, whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah; which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of Joshua, the Beth-mite.
When thou shalt depart from me this day, thou shalt find two men by the sepulchre of Rachel in the border of Benjamin to the south, and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found that thou wentest to seek; and thy father thought no more of the asses for you, and saith, What shall I do for my son?
And Saul commanded his son Jonathan, and all his servants to put David to death: but Jonathan the son of Saul delighted in David.
And he gave to Eglon the king of Moab; and he made it very fat.
And the elders of Jabez said unto him, Let us smite us seven days, that we may send messengers unto all the coasts of Israel; and if there be no man to defend us, we will come out unto thee.
And the servants of David said unto him, Behold the day that Jehovah hath said unto thee, I will deliver thy enemy unto thee, that thou mayest do unto him as it pleaseth thee. Then David arose, and secretly cut off the hem of Saul's coat.
And from thence came out of the family of the children of Dan, out of Zorah, and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men prepared for war.
For I will show mercy to their iniquity; I will remember their iniquity and their iniquity no more.
And the sister of Nabal answered the servants of David, and said, Who is David, and whose son is the son of Jesse? today are the servants that break away every man from his master.
And thou shalt send forth the son of Jesse in the offering, and I will shew thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt put the holy oil upon him whose name I give thee.
I will go and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with thee with my father; and if I see anything, I will tell thee.
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul were gone astray. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, and go in search of the asses.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the mount of Gaash.
Jehovah do so to Jonathan, and more also, let it please my father to do thee evil, if I shew it not unto thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace. May Jehovah be with you, as he hath been with my father.
What is it? but that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth Christ is preached: I rejoice in this, yea, and will rejoice.
What shall we do for them, for the remnant is left for wives? for we have sworn by Jehovah not to give unto them our daughters as wives.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking, that he cast the cheek out of his hand; and he called that place Ramah.
And Joshua sent messengers throughout the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters unto Beth Aven, and the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim were called together, and took the waters unto Bethdar, and the Jordan.
And they made a covenant before Jehovah; and David dwelt in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.
And he that brought the tidings answered, and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there is a great slaughter among the people; and thy two sons, even the chief of the Levites, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And they waited till they were ashamed, and the doors were still shut; and they took the key, and opened them, and saw their master spread out dead upon the floor.
that the daughters of Israel went to keep the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite four days in a year.
Whence he is able to save all that come near unto God, to make supplication unto them.
And it came to pass, as they went down to the borders of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to pass before us, and when he hath passed, stand here a while, that I may make known unto thee the word of God.
For as Jehovah liveth, the God of Israel, who hath withheld me from doing you any evil; if thou wouldest not come to meet me quickly, there was not a man left to the man of Nabal by the day of the light.
saying, Come, and be our chief, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
And he went in, and prepared a kid of the goats, and of an ephah of fine flour without leaven; he put the flesh in a basket, and put it in a vessel, and brought forth unto him, unto the place of the oak, and brought near.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy neighbour, who is better than thou.
and told him how Saul had slain the priests of the Lord.
And when the evil spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, David took his harp, and was with his hand; and Saul was refreshed, and was better: for the evil spirit departed from him.
And he took away the king of Amalek with the sword, and all the people utterly destroyed with the edge of the sword.
And Abimelech reigned three years over Israel.
And they gave unto him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, and Abimelech hired with them vanity and riotous men; and they followed him.
And fulfil my joy, that ye may mind the same thing, having the same love one of one soul, making straight the same thing;
And it came to pass, as soon as he had finished offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, to all that ye said unto me; and I will reign over you a king.
For as long as the son of Jesse dwelleth on the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: therefore send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die.
Every way is in honor, and the bed is pure: for God judgeth the whoremongers and the adulterers.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house, to watch him, and to kill him in the morning. And Michal the wife of David told him, saying, If thou wilt not save thy life this night, thou shalt surely die.
So the Spirit of Jehovah came upon the waters, and went round Gilead, and Manasseh, and Mizpah, and went over to the children of Ammon.
Then came down his brethren, and his father's servants, and took him up, and buried him in the land between Zareah, and in the valley of his father; and he reigned twenty years in Israel.
For the transgression is like the sin of divination, and the pride of iniquity, and the idols of idols: because ye have rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath cast thee off from being king.
And when Samuel came to Saul, Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods, which I made, and the priest, and have gone away: what have I? how can ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
Then said I, Behold, I come, even in the book it is written of me, to do, O God, thy will.
If they say unto us, Keep silence from whence thou art until we come unto thee; then we will keep our place, and not go up unto them.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me the land of the south: give me also also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs, and the lower springs.
who in the days of his flesh with a strong cry and with tears, sacrificing and supplications unto him that was able to save him from death, was heard in his fear.
And they returned from Gilgal, and said unto the king, I have heard a secret report unto thee, O king. And he commanded silence, and all were gone out.
Let us go therefore with confidence unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace in vain.
And he made a ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even in the city of Ophrah; and all Israel went there a whoring after it; and it became a snare unto the king, and to his house.
And it came to pass, when it was ninety years old, that he was eight hundred years old, and he was not able to see.
And smote the king, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped by the fountain of the valley; and the camp of Midian was on the left side of the valley of Moreh.
But those things which are profitable for me I gave up for Christ.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins; and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.
And David said unto the Philistines, Behold, ye come to me with the sword, and with a spear, and with a spear; but I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the battle of Israel, whom thou hast reproached.
And Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of the land, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Jamin, nor of Achzib, nor of Debir, nor of Rehob, nor of Rehob.
And every man in affliction, and every man that had a creditor, and every man that was grieved, gathered unto him, and he became their captain: and there were about four hundred men with him.
And David came in, and his men into the city; and, behold, they burned up fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, and their daughters.
And she said unto him, Why sayest thou art my beloved, when thy heart is not mine? Three times thou hast mocked me, and hast not made me known the mystery of thy great strength.
And we went against the south of the Cherethites, and against the parts of Judah, and against the south of Caleb; and we burned him with fire.
in which shall we be sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ,
The staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam: and his spear weighed six hundred shekels of iron, and his shield went before him.
For it is more better than the angels; and as much as he hath inherited a greater name than theirs.
And when he was come, he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him out of the hill-country, and he led them.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a spirit of divination, and I will go unto her, and enquire by her. And his servants said unto him, There is a woman that hath a vision at Endor.
For they say such things that they seek for a country.
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And Shammah the son said, Now I ask thee, if thou shalt answer me before the seven days of the feast, I will give thee thirty linen, and thirty changes of raiment.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid on the south, and in Ziklag, and smote at Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
And he said unto him, Far be it from me, thou shalt not die: for my father shall do nothing great or small, unless first tell me. Hath my father hid this thing only from me? nay, this shall not be.
For they are chastened for a few days, as it seemed good unto them; but he is profitable for gain, in order to be sanctified by his holiness.
When Saul saw that he was wise, he feared him.
But the children of Benjamin, when they saw that they were too weak, fled. And the children of Israel saw, and delivered them away, that they might come to the ambush that were prepared, which they had set nigh the city.
And every one of them in affliction, and every man that was in debt, and every one that was grieved in spirit gathered round him; and he became a captain over them, and there were with him four hundred men.
In so much is Jesus made a promise of a good covenant.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the spirit of mourning God prospered over Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house; and David was with his hand, as day by day, and the spear in the hand of Saul.
And they came thither to the height, and, behold, a band of prophets came to meet him; and the Spirit of God prospered over him, and he prophesieth in their midst.
And these are the golden kinds of gold, which the Philistines returned for sin unto Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Gaza, and for Ashkelon, one; for Ekron.
And she sent and called the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and go up to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they inquired for the name of the matter, it was said, The son of Joash did all this.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And Ehud put his left hand upon his right shoulder, and thrust it into his bowels.
And they went out at Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And a man of the hill-country of Ephraim was called Micah.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, and sent away my enemy, that he may recover? And Michal said unto Saul, Let me go, why should I kill thee?
And David and Abishai came to the camp by night; and Saul was lying in the camp with his spear, and thrust his spear upon his head; and Abner and the people were lying round about him.
Thou didst also kest no pleasure in burnt-offering and sacrifice for sin.
For the law, having a shadow of the coming good, is not the image of the things, nor of the things, nor of the present sacrifice which they offer continually, perfect those that approach.
And Saul sought to put David to the wall with his spear; and David departed from the presence of Saul; and the spear sought him, and was fastened in the wall; and David fled, and fled that night.
harden not your heart as in the rebellion; In the day of testing in the wilderness,
And the carpenter died, and was buried in Bethlehem.
And it came to pass, when they had carried it, that the hand of Jehovah was upon the city with a very great tumult; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and the boils brake out upon them.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this wickedness: turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart;
And they tarried until they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the man's doors. So they took the key, and opened them; and, behold, their master was fallen dead upon the earth.
Wherefore we ought to pay more attention to the things which were heard, lest perhaps we might fall away.
And the children of Dan said unto him, See thou speak no more unto us, lest there be fierce men upon thee, and thou perish with all thy house.
And the land of Midian was broken before the children of Israel, and the children of Midian: and the land was quiet forty years in the days of Benjamin.
by faith, Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that were disobedient, having received the spies in peace.
And it shall come to pass, at the death of the judge, that they turn back, and have done wickedly more than their fathers, to go after other gods, to serve them, and to bow down to them; they have not fallen from their doings, and from their stiff way.
And there were found in Jabesh Gilead four hundred virgins, that had not known the bed of a man, and brought them to the camp of Shiloh, to the land of Canaan.
And Hananiah answered and said, Nay, my lord: I am a virgin, and wine, and strong drink, I have not drunk; and I pour out my soul before Jehovah.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his raiment, even his sword, and his bow, and his bow.
And they went up into the city: and as they entered into the midst of the city, Samuel came forth to meet them, to go up to the high place.
Then said I, Behold, I come to do thy pleasure, O God, as it is written in the book of the book.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah hath done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and hath set thee ruler over Israel,
And it came to pass, when the men of the city rose early in the morning, that, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.
For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath kept me from destroying thee, unless thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there had not been left unto the man of Nabal by the day of the light any one that had a issue upon the wall.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now therefore arise, that I may plead in judgment against you before Jehovah, concerning all the goodness of Jehovah which he hath showed unto you and to your fathers.
And when he came, behold, Eli was sitting upon his throne by the way, for his heart was moved for the ark of God: and when he entered into the city, all the city cried.
Not that I should say, for I have learned in the things wherein I am, to be content.
And they said, There must be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted out of Israel.
And when he saw her, he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter: thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
and the righteous by faith shall live: and if he will return, my soul hath no pleasure in him.
Then said he unto Samuel, Go again; and if the voice be come, let thy word be, and thou shalt say, Lord; for the ears of thy servant are open. So Samuel returned to his bed.
For Christ entered not into holy places made with hands, but in the truth, but into heaven, to appear before God for us;
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen that Jehovah hath given thee this day into my hand in the cave, and some said to slay thee: But I have pity on thee, and said, I will not stretch out my hand against my lord, because he is Jehovah's anointed.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a tree from the trees, and took it up, and laid it on his shoulder. And he said to the people that were with him, What thou hast seen me, make haste, and do as I have done.
For they indeed, for a few days, according to what seemed good to them, were chastening, but he for profit, to be partakers of his separation.
And he said unto them, I have asked, that thou wouldest give me the rings of his spoil: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain by man.
seeing lest there be any who fall short of the grace of God: lest any root of bitterness come up against thee, and many be defiled by it.
And the five men went, and came to Laish; and they saw the people that were therein, abiding in safety, after the manner of the Zidonians, quiet and safe; and there was none in the land that had dominion, that could put to shame in anything; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had nothing to do with man.
Behold, I will send the lad, saying, Go, find the arrows. If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon this side of thee: take them; then come; for there is peace unto you, and no evil, as Jehovah liveth.
I will bring unto thee, even to the river of the river, even to Sisera, and to Sisera, and with his chariots, and with his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And the trees came to anoint a king over them; and they said to the olive tree, Be thou over us.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And the children of Israel returned, and pursued after the Philistines, and fell upon their camp.
and the gold also, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, which were of the five lords of the Philistines, and of the fortified cities, and of the villages, even unto the great stone, on which they set down the ark of Jehovah: that stone remaineth to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh.
and he had thirty sons and thirty daughters; he sent without and thirty daughters to his sons, and he judgeth Israel seven years.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of them that are in heaven, and of them on earth, and of them that are under the earth;
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink.
For finding fault with them, he said, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
And the cherubim of the glory of the mercy-seat were over it; and they were not to speak unto this day.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with a prey, even Ashdod, and the borders thereof.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the camp, and came to Shiloh the same day with his garments rent, and with earth upon his head.
Yea, we have fathers of our flesh, for masters, and we have feared them: shall we not henceforth obey the Father of spirits, and live?
And he said unto him, We are journeying from Bethlehem to the border of Ephraim, to the place of mount Ephraim; from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehem Judah, and I would do with the house of Jehovah: and there is none that receiveth me into his house.
And he smote them with a great slaughter, with a great slaughter; and he went down, and dwelt in the den of the cliff.
For my father fought, and laid up his life for you, and delivered you from the hand of Midian;
And he asked for water, and gave him milk, And brought him forth butter in the midst of the womb.
And it was written in the faith of Enoch, that he should not see death; but he was not found, because God had interpreted him: for before his interpretation he had testified that he pleased God.
Therefore take him to thy heart in the Lord with all joy, and magnify him as he is.
And she came, and fetched him to ask her father for a field, and she alighted from her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
Wherefore let us make all diligence to enter into that place, that no man may fall in the same way of transgression.
And there was a man of Zorah, of the family of the children of Dan, whose name was Adam; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
And Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth Anath; and he dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land; but the inhabitants of Bethshemesh, and of Bethshemesh, became tributaries unto them.
And the people fell upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people ate with the blood.
And the captains of Issachar were with him, and went after the stairs of him that went into the pit, and went into the pit; and Reuben was divided against himself; and there was found a strife of men.
But the man was not willing to spend the night; and he arose, and went; and he came to Jebus, that is, Jerusalem; and he had a pair of saddled asses and his concubine.
And Shammah the son said unto them, If ye do this thing, yet I will be avenged upon you, and afterwards will I cease.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house at Ramah: and Elkanah knew Uriah his wife, and Jehovah remembered her.
And Jesse called his name Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel; and he said, This also Jehovah hath not chosen.
And they turned aside thither, to go in and lodge in Gibeah; and when he went in, he sat down in the street of the city; for there was no man in his house to lodge.
And I said, Behold, I am come; in the book of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God.
And it came to pass, when the lad came up to the place of the arrow that Jonathan had shot: and Jonathan called after the child, and said, Is not the arrow on thee?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they said unto Jonathan the son of Barachel the son of Barachel, that thou shalt inquire of thee, saying, Lest we have found thee and thy father's house burned with fire, and hast thou brought us here to possess us?
and to them that were in Aroer, and unto them that were in Midian, and unto them that were in Eshtemoa,
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines; and they drove off their cattle, and made them a great burden: and David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And they took the cords, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines are upon thee, and there were a lie in the chamber; and he brake them from his arms as a thread.
There was no man to strengthen them, and there were no more armed men in the cities: there was a shield, or a spear, to be seen among forty thousand in Israel.
For it is a fearful thing that falleth into the hands of the living God.
And Samuel executed Israel all the days of his life.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou hast spoken unto me.
And we will take ten men of an hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, that they may bring forth bread for the people, that they may come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we pass over unto the men, and we are made manifest unto them.
for those in Hebron, and for all the places where David and his men were numbered.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in the wilderness, and dwelt in the mount in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him daily; but God gave him not into his hand.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have done all this evil: only turn ye not away from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And her father said, I said most certainly that thou utterly hated her: therefore I gave her to thy companion. Is not her younger sister more fair than she? take her, and take her.
But by faith it is impossible to please well; for it is he that cometh to God to believe that he is, and to them that seek him he becometh a reward.
And when the Philistines saw it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which were taken out of thee, and whereof thou hast pronounced a curse in mine ears, are with me, and I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son by Jehovah.
And there was a great priest over the house of God.
And when the Moabites saw a man left the city, they said unto him, Show us the door of the city, and we will deal kindly with thee.
And it came to pass from year to year, that he went up to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and to morrow, and to Israel in all these places.
And Saul was greatly afraid of David; and Saul was the enemy of David continually.
Yea, and if I offer on the sacrifice and in your faith, I delight, and rejoice with you all.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring ye the portion which I gave thee, and commanded thee to set it apart by thee.
But the olive tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness with which they honor God, and man by me, and go to wave and forth over the trees?
And with whom was he angry forty years? Was it not with them that did evil, who came to their blood in the wilderness?
Yea, for the selfsame thing thou shalt rejoice and bless me.
and have seen, and lo, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in, then ye have gone out of the vineyards, and have taken for you his wife out of the daughters of Shiloh, and went to the land of Benjamin.
So David took the spear, and the water of water out of the hand of Saul, and they fled; and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awaked; for they were all asleep: for a deep sleep from Jehovah fell upon them.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel out of the hand of Midian. Did not I send thee?
And David left that which he had borne in the hand of the taking of the stuff, and ran into the ranks; and he came and saluted his brethren.
and that he might deliver them, that, with fear of death, through all their life, were men of bondage,
And when they were in the house of Micah, they perceived the voice of the young man the Levite; and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou here?
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favour in thy sight. And the woman went on her way, and ate, and her face was no more sad.
And they that were in wait arose suddenly out of their secret places; and Benjamin turned their back to the slaughter, and went into the city, and smote it with the edge of the sword.
And the children of Israel took away the Baalim, and the rod, and served Jehovah alone.
For finding fault with them, saith Jehovah, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah; and I will perfect unto the house of Israel, and unto the house of Judah a new covenant.
Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum: We have such a high priest, Who is set on the right hand of the throne of glory in the heavens,
And he turned again from thence into Gilgal, and said, I have a secret tidings unto thee, O king: who said, Keep silence; and all that stood by him went out from him.
Now a man of God came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Did I not show myself to the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt under the house of Pharaoh?
When thou hast departed from me this day, thou shalt see two men in the land of Rachel, in the land of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest in to seek have come back, and now thy father, and thou takest no more for the asses, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who hath put forth his hand against the anointed of Jehovah, and be justified?
And Saul sent messengers to the house of David to watch him, and to put him to death in the morning; and Michal his wife told David, saying, If thou wilt not deliver thy life this night, thou shalt surely die.
And we went to the south of the Cherethites, and to the borders of Judah, and to Caleb southward; and we burned him with fire.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not do so wickedly: for this man cometh into my house, and do not this folly.
And they charged the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in wait in the vineyards;
And the name of Samuel said, As thy sword is bereaved of women, so shall thy mother be bereaved of women. And Samuel the king smote them with contempt before Jehovah at Gilgal.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, for we have sworn, in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and my seed for ever: and he arose, and went; and Jonathan went in to the city.
And when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he told them in the hearing of Jehovah.
And it came to pass after him, that after him was the judges of the children of Heth, and he judgeth Israel ten years.
But Jonathan, having no knowledge of the oath that his father had put upon the people, stretched out the staff that was in his hand, and put it in the honeycomb, and put it to his mouth; then his eyes were made bright.
and having a great high priest, who passed through the heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold hold on our confession.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou give them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
And he waited seven days, according to the commandment with Samuel; and he came not unto Gilgal; and the people were scattered from off him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye thus like these? for I hear your evil words from all the people.
And three thousand of the children of Judah went down to the gate of Etam, and said to the prophet, Is it not clear unto thee that the Philistines are our princes? and what is this thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, I only did unto them as they did unto me.
but the high priest only a year, and not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the error of the people;
And thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this high place, in the light thereof; and thou shalt take a second bullock, and offer it for a burnt-offering, with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose for himself five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the breastplate of his shepherd's sack, which he had, and he drew near to the Philistines.
And he said unto them, This is what Micah did for me; and he gave me money, and I became his priest.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah; and David dwelt in the Philistines; and Jonathan returned to his house.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the high priest of our confession, Christ Jesus;
And he said unto him, If I pray thee, I have found grace in thine eyes, then thou hast done unto me a sign that thou speakest with me.
And Jonathan made a covenant also David, because he loved him as his own soul.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they took thirty men, and they were with him.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew that day, when the Edomites were there, he would say unto Saul, I am the cause of all the souls of thy father's house.
Thou hast made him a little more than the angels; Thou hast crowned him with glory and honour.
For though he was a son, through the pain which he was, the knowledge came to him, that it might be under the commandment of God.
But I rejoice in Jehovah greatly, that now in length thou hast quickened your thought for me; in which thou hast done it, yet it lacked it.
And he had great brass upon his feet, and a rainbow between his shoulders.
And Adam said, Let thy words come to pass: what is the custom of the youth, and his work?
And out of that day he called Baal, because he had said, Let Baal be avenged upon him that hath cast down his altar.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and thou camest not at the time of the days; and the Philistines were gathered at Michmash.
then let him that cometh forth from the door of my house meet me, when I come again in peace from the children of Ammon, and I will give him a burnt offering.
And it is yet more excellent, if after the similitude of the image of Malchijah there is a priest,
And it came to pass, when he had ended these words, that he cast the cheek out of his hand, and called the name of that place Ramah, which is called by the mouth of the smooth.
Of whom we have much to say, and hard to be instructed, because ye are become weak to hear.
And he said, How can I go? If Saul heard it, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And the king said to the couriers that stood round about him, Turn, and slay the priests of Jehovah, because they also have supported David; for they knew that he fled, and showed it not to me. But the servants of the king were not willing to lift up their hand against the priests of Jehovah.
And Saul and his men went on one side of the mount, and David and his men went on the other side; and David's counsel was to flee quickly, because Saul was afraid of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men, that they might take them.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but there was no answer. So he took her up, and put her on the ass, and went on his way, and came to his house.
And the messengers came in, and, behold, the image was in the bed, and the net of goats was at his head.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance belongeth unto me, and I will repay; and the Lord will judge his people.
not to be deceived by strange doctrine, for it is good for your heart to be strengthened by grace, and not by meats, which of no profit profit upon them.
And the Holy Spirit testifieth unto us, for after saying,
And Samuel said, How can I go? If he hear it, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
And the man, and Elkanah, with all his household, went up to make the oblation to Jehovah, and to fulfill his oath.
And the men of Israel said, Did thou see this man that is come up? for he goeth up to defy Israel: and the king shall make him rich with great substance, and shall give him his daughter to wife, and shall make his father's house free from Israel.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David at Hormah, and comforted him.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation; for I write a letter unto you in few words.
and to whom did he swear, that they should not enter into his rest, save those that believed not?
The Lord killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth again again.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Tarry, I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say thou on.
And he smote them from Aroer, until ye came to Minnith, and to the twenty cities, and to Abel, a very great slaughter. And the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And God bare them witness by signs, and wonders, and diverse wonders, and distributed of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
Now therefore, if ye have done truth and truth in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with baal and his house, and have done unto him according to the work of his hands,
For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days are come, saith Jehovah, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
For we ought to hear the things which we have heard, lest we fall away.
And he went thither unto Ramah in Ramah, and the Spirit of God was upon him. And he departed, and went on; and he prophesied until he came to Ramah in Ramah.
according to my hope and hope, that I should in no way be put to shame, but with all boldness, as always, even so also Christ also shall be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death.
And he numbered them in the valley, and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
even the reproach of Christ more than the treasure of the Egyptians; for he sought the reward.
And Michal let David down through a window, and he went and fled, and escaped.
And the inhabitants of Shechem set a lie in wait for him upon the tops of the mountains; and they robbed all that came by them; and it was told Abimelech.
By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the children of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And David dwelt with him in Gath, he and his men, every man with his household; and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelite.
not that I have already obtained, or had been already made perfect; but I pursue, if I may lay hold of the Christ Jesus;
And I beseech thee, an instrument of truth, help those women that have laboured with me in the glad tidings, and with virtue, and with my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
Yea, I will put my trust in him; and again, behold, I and the children that God hath given me.
For the law hath not made perfect; and in its place there is hope in which we come nigh unto God.
And they said unto him, Say now, Speak now, and rebuke. And he said, The Egyptian captain did not speak rightly: and they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell down at that time forty thousand men.
And Israel was greatly afflicted because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
There is honorable age in all, and the bed is pure: but God judgeth the adulterer and the adulterers.
And when the inhabitants of Gilead heard of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And David came to Amon the priest, and Haman was astonished at David's coming. And he said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
so that their portions, and their shovels, and their hooks, and their axes, were blunt, even unto the caterpillar, which was to be repaired.
Forsake hospitality: for by this certain men have received angels, without knowing it.
And it came to pass, while she was a long time in prayer before Jehovah, that she kept watch over her mouth.
And when the Philistines looked about, and saw David, he despised him; for he was a youth, and tender, and a fair countenance.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not upon his face, nor on the height of his stature, because I have refused him: for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth: for man looketh upon the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
And he that bare tidings answered and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and a great slaughter is among the people; and thy two sons are dead, the son of Levi, and Phinehas, and the ark of God.
And David, having girded his sword upon his armor, began to test if he should walk in the armor; for he was not accustomed to it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go thus; for I am not with it. And he laid them off.
As to jealousy, so persecuted the church; as to righteousness which in the law found innocent;
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them dwelt in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation by your prayer, and by the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
For ye have need of patience, that after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, thou, and Ahimelech, and all the house of thy father.
For thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall touch his head; for he shall be a Nazarite of God, and he shall deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and they went to search for David in the way of the mount of the mount.
And he took the kid of the goats with the meal-offering, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah; and the angel wrought a marvellous thing in the sight of the man, and his wife.
Now therefore hear thou also the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set before thee a piece of bread, that thou mayest eat and prosper, and be able to go on thy journey.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Alas, Jehovah! let the man of God that thou sentest come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened bread, and lay them upon that rock, and pour out the broth thereof thereon; and when he had done so,
And he said, Go in peace; and let the God of Israel grant thy petition that thou hast asked him.
And Saul said, I have done the commandment of Jehovah, and have gone the way the Lord sent me: I have taken Agag, the king of Amalek, and have given Amalek to destruction.
And Saul called the people, and numbered them in the land, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And when they had gone a little way, they went into the house of the young man the Levite, which was in the house of Michmas; and they saluted him with words of peace.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and they entered thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the images, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with the weapons of war.
And Jotham hasted, and fled, and went to Beer-sheba, and dwelt there, from the presence of Abimelech his brother.
And Deborah, a prophetess, a prophetess, was the judge of Israel at that time.
And David took the head of the Philistines unto Jerusalem, and he put the shields and the arms in his tent.
that we also, who are escaped from the hope of the hope wherewith we hope, may be refreshed in two things, in which it is not possible for God to be false.
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh: he and his sons were priests to the tribe of the children of Dan, until the day of the captivity of the children of the children of Israel.
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the top of the cliff, and said to Shammah son, Knowest thou not that the Philistines reign over us? and what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
But when the judge was dead, they returned, and did more evil than their fathers, and after other gods, to serve them, and to serve them, and to serve them, and to give up nothing of their iniquities, and their abominations.
Then he called unto him all the men of Gilead, and he fought against Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because he had said, Gilead is a fugitive from Ephraim, and dwelleth in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And his brethren and all his brethren went down, and buried his body, and buried it between Seraiah and Elath, in the sepulchre of his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is by the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
that my God may supply all your riches for his riches in the glory of Christ Jesus.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto them no more. And immediately they knew that it was an angel of the Lord.
And they rose up early; and it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out from them, he and Samuel.
But whatsoever things have been profited unto me, I have thought concerning Christ.
And I took my concubine, and cut her into pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of Israel; for they committed a shame and a shame in Israel.
and the house was full of men and women; and all the princes of the Philistines were there, and there were three thousand men, and women, and women on the roof, watching the work of the son of Shimea.
and say unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppress you.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in strength, and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him every day, but God gave him not into his hand.
If thy father is at all missing me, say, I pray thee, let David go out from me, that he may run to Bethlehem his city: for there is a year offering for all the house of Israel.
And it came to pass, when he was speaking to the men, that Eliab was very angry with David, and his anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why comest thou down to-day, and with whom hast thou left the few sheep in the wilderness? I know that thou hast gone down, and the evil of your heart: for thou hast come down to see the battle.
And thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee: yet if there be in me iniquity, slay me; for why should thou bring me unto thy father?
And he went in unto him; and he sat in the summer, and said, I have a word from God to thee. And he rose up from his throne.
By faith we know the things which are created by the word of God, that what is seen is not made manifest from the things that are seen.
And Saul gathered all the host for the battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay siege against David and against his men.
and thou shalt bring these ten portions of milk unto the prince of the thousand; and thou shalt know how thy brethren do, and take their pledge.
And Bela the son went to Gaza; and there he saw a woman, and went in unto her.
and a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant, all round about with gold, in which the golden pot had manna, and the rod of Aaron that had sprung up, and the tables of the covenant;
And the lamp of God had not gone out, and Samuel dwelt in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And part of them both with reproach and afflictions being made shipwreck, and part of them were become partakers of them.
And Samuel rose, and went up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the men that were present with him, about six hundred men.
Be not carried away with divers and strange, for it is good that the heart be established with grace, not of meats; but they that have walked in which have not been profited by.
But she laid him down upon her knees, and lay his head in her bosom; and she called a worm, and shaved his seven hair, and began to thrust him away, and thrust him away from her: for immediately his strength departed from him.
And the Philistines journeyed, and drew near unto David; and the man that carried the shields before him,
And God did so in that night, and there was no rain upon the wool; and upon all the earth there was dew.
And he went down, and talked with the woman, and she pleased the woman.
And they went up, and put up their tents in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: and the name of that place is called Kiriath Jearim.
And Samuel said, What meaneth this well of the sheep in mine ears, and the voice of the oxen which I hear?
So David went, and his six hundred men went with him, and they came to the river country.
And who will hearken unto you in this matter? For as the portion of him that was brought down into the battle, so also the portion of him that remaineth by the vessels, even as they have received.
Let the brotherly love abide.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah, and set it between Mizpah, and called the name of it, saying, Hitherto Jehovah hath helped us.
And Moses believed also a servant in all his house, and as a witness of them that were to be said hereafter.
And Jonathan gave unto his young men his companions, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And it came to pass, when the men of Ashdod rose early in the morning, that they fell upon his face to the ground before Jehovah's ark; and they took Dagon, and set him in his stead.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and took the ark of Jehovah unto the house of Abinadab in Gibeah; and they made Eleazar his son holy, and put the ark in his hand.
and all these people that are here this day may see that Jehovah giveth not salvation with the sword and with the spear: for the fight is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hands.
And David said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, to Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
so that, my beloved, even as ye always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my necessity, working out your own salvation with fear and trembling;
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan; and Saul sware, saying, Jehovah liveth; he shall not die.
and if thou art afraid to go down, go down, thou and thy young man, unto the camp;
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for us unto Jehovah thy God, that death may not overtake us: for in addition to all our iniquities we have done this evil, in wishing for a king.
Jesus Christ both yesterday and this day and ever.
And all that generation was gathered unto their fathers; and some that knew not the Lord, and the works which he had done for Israel.
And all the people took the rods, and every one cut down a branch, and went with Abimelech to his head, and took the rods against the chamber, and put fire to the chamber over them; and all that were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned with fire.
and they would to God this people were under my hand: then I would drive out Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy army, and come out.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son-in-law.
And if their fathers or their brethren complain unto us, we will say unto them, Let us have them; for we have not taken a wife for every man in the war; and thou hast not given them unto them, lest thou shouldest be guilty.
And David said unto the king, Thou shalt see now what thy servant will do. And David said unto David, I will keep thee from my head for ever.
And he came to his father's house, to Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, seventy souls upon one stone; but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbesheth was there; for he had hid himself.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And David was the youngest; and the three elder followed him.
Moreover Jehovah will deliver Israel also with you into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah will deliver the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And he gave him a portion, even though he loved him, but Jehovah had not given her children.
and the ambush hasted, and ran against Gibeah; and the ambush drew itself out, and smote the whole city by the mouth of the sword.
that the children of Israel might know war by learning, at the least of them that knew nothing.
And David went from thence to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth among you, till I know what God will do for me.
And David sware unto Saul, and he went to his house: and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And he said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
And she made a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt see the affliction of thy handmaid, and will remember me, and forget me, and not forget thy handmaid, and will give unto thy handmaid a male child, then will I give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and a razor shall never pass over his head.
And Jehovah sent a very grievous spirit between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Shechem; and he despised him.
And Abimelech went to smite him, and encamped at Thebez, and took it.
Now therefore bear, I pray thee, with my sin, and turn again with me, and I bow myself before Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Behold ye whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people cried, and said, Let the king live.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood by him, Hear, I pray thee, O Benjamin: and, behold, the son of Jesse shall give thee fields and vineyards: all of thee shall he appoint captains of thousands and captains of hundreds.
For it is known that our Lord came forth from Judah; in which Moses spake nothing concerning the priests.
And he called for David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, surely thou wast perfect, and I have found thee to go with me in the battle: for I have not found any evil in thee from the day that thou camest unto me unto this day, but in the sight of the princes thou art not good.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and spake unto them, and to all the house of the father of his mother, saying,
And the men of Israel turned in battle; and Benjamin began to smite the slain among the men of Israel, about thirty men: for they said, Surely they are utterly smitten before us as the first battle.
And it came to pass, when Israel sowed, that Midian came up, and Amalek, and the children of the east, and came up against them.
And the children of Israel were moved with repentance for Benjamin their brother, saying, One tribe is taken away from Israel.
and now, behold, the king is before thee; and I am old and tender, and my sons are with thee: I have lived before thine eyes from my early days until now.
And this is the thing that ye do; every male, and every woman, know the lying of a male, ye shall utterly destroy.
And he said, Peace to the Lord, I come, sanctify yourselves, and ye come in with me to sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and calleth them to the sacrifice.
But this man, after he had offered a sacrifice for sins for ever, sat upon the right hand of God:
Let us labor therefore to enter into that place, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done a foolish thing: thou hast not kept the statutes which Jehovah thy God hath given thee; and Jehovah hath made thee king over Israel for ever.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not evil, I pray you, after that this man cometh in unto my house, do not this folly.
And what shall we do for wives for them that remain? for we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them of our daughters for wives.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her, and said unto her, Make thy hand over him, and see what is the secret of his great might, and how we may get the better of him, and put bands upon him, that we may make him faint; and every one of us shall give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
to the end of the glory of God which is in Christ Jesus.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest that which Saul hath done, that he hath cut off the mediums and the wizards out of the land; and why do thou lay a snare for my soul, to kill me?
And Abigail took two hundred loaves of bread, and two wine full of wine, and five sheep prepared for meat, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred flour, and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them on asses.
And the children of Israel returned from burning after the Philistines, and spoiled their tents.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees,
And they came to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured out before Jehovah, and fasted that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judgeth the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And Jabez went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn, my lord, turn in unto me; fear not; and when he had turned into the tent, she covered him with a garment.
For ye came not to something that can be touched, and to a burning fire, and to darkness, and to darkness, and to a tempest;
Christ therefore was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that seek him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
And David smote them from the evening until the evening; and there was not a man of them, except four hundred young men that rode upon camels, and fled.
And now let not my blood be shed upon the earth before Jehovah: for the king of Israel is come out to search a gnat, as the partridge is found in the mountains.
And her wise women answered her; Yea, she returned with her voice.
in order that in two change, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we that have taken refuge may have power to hold fast to the hope that is set before us;
And he took it into his hands, and went on, and ate as he went, and came to his father and mother, and gave them, and they did eat; and he said not unto them that he had taken the honey out of the lion's body.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken back again to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and all the land round about them, whom Israel had redeemed from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber, and gave them a place at the head of them that were bidden; and they were about thirty souls.
And it came to pass, when the prince of the city heard the words of Gath the son of Shelemiah, that his anger burned.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
And they remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about.
And David went to and fro from Saul, and looked after his father's flock at Bethlehem.
For it is the portion of men to die, and after this judgment.
And she wept before him the seven days of their feast; and it came to pass, that on the seventh day he told her, and told the people a riddle.
In the same manner also Christ, being offered once to bear the sins of many, shall appear for the second time without sin unto them that wait for him for salvation.
And the hand of the children of Israel went, and waxed hard unto Jabin king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of them that are on the earth, and under the earth,
All the saints salute you, and especially those of the household of Caesar.
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all joy, and hold him in glory;
that through two tables things were impossible for God to lie: a strong comfort we might have who fled, to lay hold on the hope set before,
And when he numbered them, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And Abigail the wife of Nabal had a young man, saying, Behold, David hath sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our lord, and he flieth upon them.
And it came to pass, when the man arose to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father's father, the father's father, and said unto him, Behold, the day draweth to the evening, I pray thee, tarry all night: behold, the day is come to an end, that thy heart may be merry; and to morrow arise thou early on thy way, that thou mayest go home.
And there came a man of God to him, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah: Have I openly shewed myself unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house,
And the children of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
And there went out thence from the family of the children of Dan, Zorah, and Eshtaol, and six hundred men armed with war.
Thou hast loved righteousness and hated iniquity; Therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants and the woman cast him, and when they heard their voice, he rose up from the ground, and sat upon the bed.
And when he saw the people, he said unto the Kenites, Behold, people come down from the top of the mountains: and the Kenite said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as men.
And Heber the Kenites had cut himself out of the Kenites, of the children of Hobab the father-in-law of Moses, and pitched his tent as far as the oak of the plain, which is by Kedesh.
And David came to the two hundred men, who had not gone with him, but were waiting at the stream: and they went out, and met David and the people that were with him; and when they came near, they said, How are ye?
And all these are accepted by the testimony of faith, and did not receive the promise.
And they said unto the children of Gilead, If thou wilt bring me back to battle against the children of Ammon, and if I have prevailed with Jehovah, wilt thou make me your head?
If thou art better than Balak the son of Zippor, or the king of Moab, or canst thou show that he fought against Israel, and fought against him,
And thou hast declared this day how thou hast dealt well with me: forasmuch as Jehovah hath delivered me into thy hand, thou didst not destroy me.
And the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of Jehovah, because the men did eat the offering of Jehovah with contempt.
And he said unto him, Whose son art thou, young? And David said, I am thy servant, the son of Jesse thy servant.
And the people sent unto Shiloh; and they brought the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, who sitteth above the cherubim; and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And all the seven days of the feast she wept upon him; and on the seventh day he gave her the answer, because she gave him no peace; and she sent word unto the children of her people.
And I wish you that ye should know, brethren, that the things concerning me, that the things which are spoken of the Gospel have come.
And Israel and the Philistines set up the battle in array against the host.
And they told Jotham, and he went up, and stood upon the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice, and said unto them, Hear me, ye lords of Shechem, that God may hear you.
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where there was a cave; and Saul went in to strengthen himself. And David and his men were sitting in the midst of the cave.
And she arose, and bowed himself with her face to the ground, and said, Behold thy handmaid, as a servant to wash the feet of my lord's servants.
And when thou comest thither, thou shalt come to a people that dwell in vain, and the land is spacious, and God hath given it into thine hands; and there is a place where all the earth is.
And Abimelech departed from thence, and went to the city of No; and he besieged him, and besieged him.
And Saul said, Thus shall God do, and thus shall he add: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
unto the great assembly, and to the assembly of them that are called in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the good men,
For the blood of the bulls and the goats, And the blood of the goats is their blood.
And the children of Benjamin came together from all their cities to Gibeah, to go to war with the children of Israel.
Return therefore, and go in peace, that ye do not that which is evil in the eyes of the Philistines.
And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our house hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favour in thine eyes, let me go and see my brethren: therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.
And, behold, there arose a sedition in Ephraim; and they went toward the north, and said unto them, When thou wentest to fight against the children of Ammon, why wouldest thou not call us, that we might go with thee? and we will burn thy house.
And he said unto him, O my lord, wherewith do I save Israel? Behold, my chief is weak in Manasseh, and I am the least in the house of my father.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and those that were on the other side of the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And he told him that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
I have sent him more abundantly, that when you see him ye may rejoice, and that I should be the less sorrowful.
And blessed be thy understanding, and blessed be thou, who hast kept me this day from coming with blood, and from my own hand.
and carry these ten little out unto the chief captain, and see thy brethren, if they are well; and learn with whom they are laid.
And he told her all his heart, and said unto her, No razor hath come upon my head; for I am a Nazarite to God from my mother's womb: if I be shorn, then shall my strength depart from me, and I shall be as one man.
And the Holy Spirit also beareth witness unto us.
and say unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have brought up Israel out of Egypt, and I will deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppress you;
So they gathered to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah; and they fasted in that day, and said, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel at Mizpah.
without father, without parents, having no genealogies, having neither begotten of days nor end of life, but having been made to the Son of God, abideth for ever a priest.
If he is able to fight with me, and he hath prevailed against me, then we will be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, then thou shalt be our servants, and thou shalt serve us.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in this thy strength, and thou shalt deliver Israel out of the hand of Midian. Did I not send thee?
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to stir him up in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And the elders of the congregation said, What do we do to the remnant of the women? for the women are destroyed out of Benjamin.
And the Philistines came, and drew near to David, with his shield before him.
And the man said, Israel fled from the Philistines; and there was great destruction among the people; and your two sons, the Hebronites, and the chief Phinehas, were dead, and the ark of God was taken.
For if the blood of goats and of oxen, and the ashes of a heifer being sprinkled, sanctify such as are unclean, to the cleansing of the flesh:
And Michal took the teraphim, and laid on the bed; and she put the bands of the goats upon the bed, and covered them with a garment.
For he hath become the pledge of a good covenant.
Neither shall they teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know thou the Lord; for they shall all know me from the least of them unto the great One of them;
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose, and went away; and Jonathan went into the city.
And he said unto his servants that were standing about him, Hear me now, ye sons of Jemi: The son of Jesse shall give you the fields, and the vineyards, and the vineyards, and the officers;
And he set them on fire, and let the foxes go about hither, that they might run thither; and they went into the land of the Philistines, which were set on fire; and that which was still standing was all burned, so that the fire consumed the vineyards and the olive trees.
And the lords of the Philistines passed over with hundreds, and by thousands; but David and his men went in unto the king.
And as he talked with them, behold, the mighty men of Gath, the Gittite of the Philistines, came up, and spake according to the words of the Philistines; and David heard.
And they rose early in the morning, and stood before Jehovah, and returned to Ramah, to their house; and Elkanah begat his wife: and Jehovah remembered her.
And as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day if ye hear his voice,
And thou shalt not only pass before me, but shew me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not:
And he bound him again with these, and cried, and said, The Philistines are upon thee, and there is a lie in wait for him in the chamber: but he brake the bands like a weaver.
And the watchman saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, Show us the door of the city, and we have dealt with thee.
And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt come to the mountain of God, that is the way of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with harps, and with timbrels, and with harps, and with harps before them; and they themselves prophesy.
And of the children of Israel, beside the children of Benjamin, were found four hundred thousand that drew swords, and were ready to fight.
And her father said, It pleased me that thou hadst only hated her; so I gave her to thy friend: but is not her younger sister better than she? then thou shalt take her in place of the other.
Are they not all able to serve in special service, sent forth for the sake of the resurrection?
And he restored them to his mother; and she took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to the silversmith, to make for them a graven image and a molten god, which was in the house of Michmas.
And the Chaldeans came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned the way of Ophrah into the land of Bilhah.
Then said I, Behold, I come, even in a book of the book it is written concerning me, to do, O God, thy will.
And he rose up early in the morning on the fifth day, and the young woman's father said unto him, Give thy heart, I pray thee, and abide till the day is come. And they both ate.
And Phinehas the wife of Phinehas, the wife of Phinehas, was with child in her womb. And when she heard the tidings concerning the ark of God, and that her father-in-law and her husband died, she went into labor and gave birth, because her pangs came upon her.
looking upon Jesus Christ, and having done the way of faith, who rejoiced before him, having suffered the cross, despised the shame, and now sat upon the right hand of God.
And Samuel was old, and Jehovah was with him, and did not let any of his words fail.
And he said unto Zebah and Ucal, How is the men whom ye slew in Tabor? And they said, As thou art like the fashion of the king's sons.
and unto the Son, Thy throne, O God, unto the world for ever; and a sceptre of righteousness, the sceptre of thy kingdom;
But one said, What is man, that thou thinkest him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, An old man cometh up, and he is covered with a garment. And Saul knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And Saul clothed David with his garments, and put a chain of brass upon his head, and girded him with a coat of mail.
And David dwelt with him in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelite.
Now therefore, if thou hast done good and uprightness to make Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with Baal and against his house, and hast dealt with him according to his ways,
whose end is destruction, Whose god the belly, And whose glory is in their shame; The things on the earth are made straight.
And God said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and build the kingdom there.
Why do ye provoke me in my sacrifices, and in my offering, which I have commanded in my habitation, and honor thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the fat of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they smote the Canaanites that dwelt in the valley, and slew them: and the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Saul said unto his servant, Behold, we go; but what shall we carry to the man of God? the bread is spent in our sacks; and we have no gift to make unto the man of God, nor any thing at all.
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Concerning zeal, persecute the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law, without blemish.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Is Saul to be our king? give the men up, that we may slay them.
Having this confidence, I know that I shall remain, yea, and abide with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith;
All these, having believed all these, having not received the promises, but having seen them, and had been persuaded, and had saluted them, and had confessed them strangers and sojourners upon the earth,
And David was at Nob with Abimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at the presence of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
and my God will fulfil your riches according to his riches in the glory of Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not, ye have done all this evil: but ye shall not depart from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
In the same place he saith again, They shall not come into my rest.
And the children of Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer with them.
And the sign went up out of the city in the pillar of smoke, and the children of Benjamin turned, and looked, and behold, all the city went up to heaven.
And the hundred men, and the hundred men that were with him, came unto the outside of the camp in the beginning of the midst of the camp; and they had but a new watch; and they blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels that were in their hands.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the face of an angel of God, very terrible; but I asked him not whence he was, neither told him his name.
Let the love of the brethren abide in you.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, All Zebah and Zalmunna, because of whom thou hast mocked me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna, Even now in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy army that are weary with weariness?
And he found a new deal of a ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men.
And he said, Let me go, for our brethren have a sacrifice in the city: my brother hath commanded me to be there: and if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go and see my brethren: therefore he came not unto the king's table.
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt; neither came we any thing, as long as we were with them, when we were in the field.
And the men of Israel said to Benjamin, Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son; for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.
And David said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath surely heard thy servant that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city upon my account.
but a fearful expectation of judgment, and fire of fire to devour the adversaries.
He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent to other places; and he took thirty wives out of other places for his sons, and he reigned over Israel seven years.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that is the shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw a mighty man, or any valiant man, he took him to himself.
And as for Zebah, as well as Zalmunna, Arise, and fall upon us; for as the man is his might; and he riseth up, and slew all Zebah and Zalmunna, and took their ornaments upon the neck of their camels.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law a second time.
And it came to pass, as she continued many prayers before Jehovah, that was, of Heli, which was seen her mouth.
And Samuel died, and all Israel were gathered together, and they mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah; and David rose, and went down into the wilderness of Paran.
And they cut off his head, and took away his armor, and sent word into the land of the Philistines round about, to bring tidings to their gods, and to the people.
And they said unto him, Come thou, and be our prince, and fight against the children of Ammon.
For we also, having a good report, preached unto them, but the word was not profitable unto them, but they were not mingled with faith in those that heard;
And David said, Shall the possessors of Keilah shut me up, and my men, into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shut up.
And Saul said unto his servants, Give me now a man that is able to do well, and bring him to me.
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was greatly afraid at the presence of Moses the king of Gath.
And they said, Who is one out of the tribes of Israel, that came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah? And, behold, there came none to come in unto the camp from Jabesh Gilead unto the assembly.
And she took him up with her, when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, and an ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah unto Shiloh, and the lad was young.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites came to the south, and to Ziklag, and smote Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
And the olive tree answered, Shall I not lay hold on my olive oil, which by me the gods are honoured, and that thou shouldest go upon the trees?
and they made a vow unto Jehovah, saying, If thou shalt not deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: because they did not keep my covenant, neither did I regard them, saith Jehovah.
Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath destroyed the Amorite, the children of Israel, to fight against him; and wilt thou possess this land?
And the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he had to grind in the prison.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand; and they smote ten thousand men in the valley.
for they could not bear what was commanded: and if a beast touched the mountain, it shall be stoned.
And it came to pass, that there were no more cities in Israel, neither was it any more, but it came to pass, that it came to pass, that it came to pass, that it came to pass, that ye came up as a mother in Israel.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the battle over all the hill-country of Ephraim: but Saul made a great mistake that day by putting the people under an oath, saying, Let that man be cursed that eateth bread before evening, and I have given judgment to them that are against me: therefore the people had not eaten bread.
Now these are the gold of the Philistines, which the Philistines sent as a sin-offering to Jehovah: one for Ashdod, and Ashkelon, and Ashkelon, and one for Gath, one for Ekron;
And Memucan answered the king, And who among all thy servants is faithful as David, who is the king's son in law, and goeth forth at thy commandment, and is honorable in thy house?
Wherefore, leaving the word of the Christ, let us go unto what is sown, not putting a foundation of repentance from the dead, and faith in God;
And Abimelech and the companies that were with him went forward, and stood in the gate of the city; and the two companies ran upon all that were in the field, and smote them.
And his concubine bare him a son; and he called his name Abimelech.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
Cursed be the man, saith the angel of Jehovah, and curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not unto the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
Certain things also, even through envy and contention, and some also by grace, do preach the Christ.
But this one, after offering a sin-offering for all time, sat at the right hand of God,
They shall be wrapped up as a garment, as a garment, and they shall be changed; but thou art the same, and thy years shall be no end.
And it came to pass, when the days of the wheat harvest were at hand, that the son of Jonathan came to his wife, and brought her a kid of the flock. And when he had gone into her chamber, her father would not suffer him, saying,
And he went, and went to Ramah, and came unto the great well that was in Ramah, and asked, and said, Where Samuel and David are? And he said, Behold, in Ramah in Ramah.
In Heshbon and in the cities of Israel, and in the cities thereof, and in the cities thereof, and in the cities, and in all the cities that are by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; and why have ye not delivered them in that time?
( for they were priests without an oath; but he made a priest with an oath by him that saith of him, The Lord hath sworn, that he will not take back, that thou art a priest for ever.
And the valiant men ceased, and abode in Israel; and there arose a mother in Israel, and there arose a mother.
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have lifted up my father before this day, or the third day, behold, if there is good toward David, will I not send to thee, and show thee it?
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
Then came the Spirit of Jehovah upon them, and passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and passed to Mizpah, and from Mizpah, and passed over to the children of Ammon.
and thou shalt say unto him that I will visit his seed for ever, for the sin which he knew; for his sons have cursed God, and he hath no dominion over them.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me; behold, I come after thee, but she told not her husband of Nabal.
And he went to Ramah in Ramah; and the Spirit of God was upon him, and he went on and prophesied, until he came to Ramah in Ramah.
I exhort Apollos, and I beseech them, to be of one mind in the Lord.
and Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go, and utterly destroy the sinners of Amalek, and fight against them until they are consumed.
So they passed and went their way; and the sun went down upon them at Gibeah, which belonged to Benjamin.
And the Philistines feared, and said, God is come into their tents. And they said, Woe is ours! for not before hath such a thing been seen.
Let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good works;
And we desire that every one of you may shew out the same carefulness unto the end of hope unto the end:
For he testifieth, thou art a priest unto ever after the order of Malchijah.
For if the word which came through the angels was fulfilled, and all the wicked transgressed against God's commandment,
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and all the men and women, all the citizens of the city; and they shut it behind them, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And Saul said, Be ye scattered among the people, and say unto them, Bring ye near unto me, every man his ox, and every one his sheep; and ye have slain in this place, and ye shall eat, and ye shall not sin against Jehovah to eat with the blood. And all the people shall bring near every one his ox in his hand that night, and slay there.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of barley, and these ten loaves of bread, and go quickly with them to the camp unto your brethren.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his raiment, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
And it came to pass, when he had called the ark of God, that he fell from his place by the door, and brake his neck, and died; for he was an old man, and a great age, and he judged Israel forty years.
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak with David in secret, and say unto him, See how the king delighteth in thee, and how thou art beloved of all his servants; then be the king's son-in-law.
Shall I not be mad, that thou hast brought this one to me as a mad man before me? should this man enter into my house?
And the two wives of David were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
And Melchizedek the king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, blessed Abraham, when he came again to slay the kings.
But even if we speak in this way, beloved, we are persuaded of you good things, and of salvation.
And Heber the Kenites, which was of the children of Hobab the father of Moses, had cut off from the Kenites, and pitched his tent unto the plain of Jamlah, which is by Kedesh.
We have straw and provender provender for the asses, and bread and wine for the necessities of my soul, and of thy handmaid, and of the servant that is with me; we seek nothing but tarry.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite the people, and slew them, as at other times, in the highways, where one went up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of the children of Israel.
And David left neither man nor woman alive, to bring to Gath; for he said, Lest they should tell us, saying, So did David. And such as he dwelt in the land of the Philistines.
And Jesse made Shammah come before him: and he said, Jehovah hath not taken this man.
Woe unto the angel of Jehovah, and curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to help Jehovah, to help Jehovah.
For this cause God hath put him in the highest place, and hath given unto him the name which is greater than all the names.
In the same way, by faith, Sarah herself became strong to conceive of seed, and beyond a time old age; for she was faithful in his promise.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell us, how is this wickedness?
And there went out a mighty man out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath; and his height was six cubits and a span.
and we are persuaded, brethren, concerning you, beloved, the things that are better, and with salvation, though even thus we speak.
And when Samuel was offering the burnt-offerings, the Philistines came near to battle against Israel; but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And they said, How is the remnant of Benjamin to be given seed, that one tribe of Israel should not be moved?
And David said to Abimelech, Is there not under thy hand a spear or a sword under thy hand? for neither my sword nor my stuff have I taken in my hand; for the thing of the king was urgent.
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, since Jehovah hath withheld thee from blood, and from vengeance with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and those that seek evil to my lord be as the wife of Nabal.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And the mountains melted from before Jehovah, even the Lord God of Israel.
And Abimelech dwelt in the field, and the children of Heth, and his brethren out of Shechem.
of whom it was said, In Isaac shall a seed be called unto thee.
And they went through the wilderness, and went round the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, and came not in the border of Moab; for the Arnon is the border of Moab.
And they smote on that day the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people waxed weary.
And when David and his men came to the city, they saw, and it was burned with fire, and their wives, their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
Now to God and our Father be glory for ever. Amen.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities, forty thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
Yea, yea, I count all things, because of the glory of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of the things I suffered, and that they should be rejected, that Christ I may gain, and be found in him.
And it came to pass, when the chief captain of the city heard the words of Rimmon the son of Shelemiah, that he was wroth.
Only that the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at least those that knew nothing of it before.
saying, To-day, if his voice shall ye hear, ye shall not harden your heart as in the provocation.
Nevertheless, to walk in the flesh, there is more necessary for you.
And one of the young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he reproached them.
But as Jehovah liveth, the God of Israel, who hath prevented me from doing evil, if thou wouldest not come to meet me, surely there should not be a male left for the man of Nabal in the morning.
And Jehovah said unto the king of Israel, This is the number of thy people, that if I give the Midianites into their hands, that they may exalt me, and say, I have been my saviour.
But the child knew nothing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
And it came to pass, when the army came to the forest, that behold, honey came forth, but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And the song came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Shall not David hide himself with us in the forest in the wood, upon the hill of the field, which is on the south of the wilderness?
and when Eli was old, and had heard all that his sons do to all Israel, and how they lie with the women that assembled at the door of the tent of meeting,
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb unto the day of his death.
And Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, and blessed Jacob.
But in these things there is a calling to mind of sins yearly.
but they pursued after the chariots, and after the host, to the end of the nations; and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
without father, and without parents, having neither begotten of days nor end of life, and being made like unto the Son of God, shall remain a priest continually.
And the children of Dan went on their way; and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he returned to his house.
Have we deceived men, that ye have brought in this man, to mock the mad man? shall this man come into my house?
And his father-in-law, the father of the damsel, spared him; and he abode with him three days: and they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and admonish those that walk, as ye have us prepared.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them, even unto Beth Shemesh.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking unto Saul, that Jonathan's soul was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And it came to pass after him, that a man of Bethlehem judged Israel.
Now there was a young man in Bethlehem in Judah, of the house of Judah, and a Levite, who was not a man of the field.
But the people took of the spoil of the sheep and of the cattle, as the firstfruits of those that were slain, to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah their God in Gilgal.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah, for ye have mercy on me.
And let this oblation, which thy servant giveth unto my lord, be given to the young men that are with my lord.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the man, the traveller, in a broad place of the city; and the old man said, Whither goest thou? And where comest thou?
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto the wife of Jonathan the son of Shammah, that he may shew us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye invited us to destroy us?
And the Spirit of Jehovah turned away from Saul, and the spirit of the Lord was troubled upon him.
praying for us; for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring to live worthily in all things.
And Samuel was dead; and all Israel mourned for him, and they buried him in Ramah, even in his own city: and Saul had put away the wizards out of the land.
And he waited seven days according to the commandment of Samuel; and I and Samuel came not unto Gilgal, and the people departed from him.
And he shall go up the way of those that dwell in tents, on the east of Nobah, and upon the east; and he shall smite the camp; and the camp shall be sure.
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah, that the ark of the covenant of God was there.
And when the morning came, Jonathan went into the field, according to the appointment of David, and a little child with him.
When thou goest into the city, thou shalt find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until his coming; for he blesseth the sacrifice; and afterward they eat, that are called, and now go up; for at this time ye find him.
And the children of Israel and Judah rose up, and went after the Philistines, and pursued the Philistines unto the valley, and toward the gate of Ekron; and the slain of the Philistines fell upon the way to Gath, and unto Ekron.
And all things were by the law purifying with blood; and without blood there is no atonement.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, Jehovah liveth; there shall not be any evil upon thee for this thing.
Therefore Christ, having at his first coming, took away the sins of men, shall be seen a second time, without sin, because of them that wait for him, for their salvation.
Do not forget hospitality: for by it some have tempted angels.
without father, without parents, having neither begotten of days nor end of life, but made like unto the Son of God: and the priest abideth continually.
And David and Abishai came down to the camp by night; and Saul slept with his own ring, and his spear was in the earth by his head; and Abner and the people slept with him.
And all the trees said unto the thorns, Thou comest and be king over us.
To which of the angels did God say, Thou art my Son, this day I have given thee? or I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son.
And the five men went, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were therein, how they dwelt treacherously, after the manner of the Zidonians, quiet and safe; and there was no ruler in the land to put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the Zidonians, and had no business with any man.
And the kings of Canaan came and fought; and the kings of Canaan fought at the waters of Megiddo, and they took no spoil of silver.
Therefore, having left the word of the Christ, unto the end we should come forth, not again a foundation of repentance, and faith in God.
And the man, and Elkanah, and all his household went up to offer to Jehovah the annual burnt offering, and his vow.
And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and laid wait in a valley.
And Saul sent messengers unto David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning; and Michal the wife of David told him, saying, If thou deliver not thy life to night, tomorrow thou shalt be slain.
that we also may be as all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
Because ye have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have not done the fierceness of his wrath against Amalek, therefore Jehovah hath done this thing unto thee this day.
Let us therefore, therefore, be diligent to enter into that place, that no one may fall after the word of the word.
but ye rise up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, seventy men, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the sons of Shechem, because he is thy brother.
And Samuel was a child before Jehovah, and girded with a linen ephod.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear is here; let one of the young men come over and take it.
And Saul said unto his servant, But behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we?
The bow of the mighty are broken, And the feeble are clothed with strength.
And Benjamin returned at that time; and they gave them the women whom they had delivered alive, of the daughters of Jabeshgilead; and they were not satisfied with them.
Go, and cry unto the gods of thy chosen; Let them be thy saviours in the time of thy trouble.
And when they had made an offering of the ox, they took the child to him.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest unto ever after the order of Malchijah.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Abidan, and blew the trumpet: and Abiezer was gathered after him.
And he went up thence unto Penuel, and besought the men of Penuel; but they answered him as the men of Succoth had given.
And the man took a young goat with a present offering, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah; and the angel did wonder, and the man's wife looked upon him.
And it came to pass, when it was come to pass, that, when it was day, it came to pass, that, as it was day, it came to pass, that, as it was day, it came to pass, that, behold, Jehovah had given to Sisera in thy hand, that he went not out before thee; and he went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
that there be no fornication, nor profane man, as Esau, who sold his birthright for a meal.
And David, with four hundred men, went on; and two hundred of them waxed weary, and could not go over the river.
and Jehovah sent thee in the way, and said, Go, and thou shalt destroy the wicked, the Amalekite, and fight against them until they are consumed.
Why dwellest thou between two coasts, that thou mayest hear the cry of the flocks? Reuben is divided against himself; there was found a strife of men.
And the Philistines were gathered together, and came, and encamped in the field; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and came to nought.
And they turned aside thither to go in, and lodged the night at Gibeah; and they went and sat in the open square of the city, but no man lay them in to lodge.
For because of the work of Christ he drew nigh unto death, having quickened the life, that he might fill your filthiness with me.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing: when thou hast given me the south land, thou hast given me springs of water: and Caleb giveth her the upper springs and the lower springs.
and we can not give them wives out of our daughters; for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
Now the day before Saul came, the word of God came to Samuel, saying,
And they sat down, and did eat and drink, and drink them together: for the father's father had said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thine heart be merry.
And there was a sign in the camp in the field; and all the people of the guard, who had gone out to spoil, were astonished, and the earth trembled; and it was a sign from God.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth; but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the spear; but he fled from Saul's presence, and smote the spear into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
And he came in, and, behold, Eli was sitting upon the throne by the way; for his heart was trembling for the ark of God; and the man came in to tell in the city, and all the city cried out.
And Saul answered and said, Am I not a son of the least of the least of Israel, and my kindred the last among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? why then hast thou spoken this word unto me?
But my righteous man shall live by faith; and if he tarry again, my soul is not pleased with him.
And the children of Israel said unto David, Rule over us, thou, and thy sons, and thy sons'; for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And I will bring unto thee unto the river of Sisera, the captain of the army of Jabin, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thine hand.
And when she pressed him much, she hanged upon him many days, and gave him no rest; and his soul fainted away, and was weary till death.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man unto his tent; and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell upon Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And he brake down the tower of Phanuel, and slew the men of the city.
For indeed he longed after you all, and was grieved; for that ye had heard that he was sick.
and that the most of the brethren, that trusted in the Lord by my bands, dared to speak the word of God boldly.
And a great multitude of the people passed over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; but Saul was yet in Gilgal; and all the people went after him trembling.
though I also have confidence in the flesh, if any man think to believe in flesh, I am more.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me back again to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will go over unto these men; and when we shall be seen by them,
Now it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had gone up on the south side of Ziklag, and smote them in Ziklag, and smote them with fire.
And it came to pass, when he had ended to speak unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was bound to the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
and thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; for I will come down unto thee, that thou mayest offer an oblation and sacrifice peace-offerings; seven days shalt thou wait, until I come unto thee, and I will show thee what thou art to do.
And there is nothing made unto him that is not perfect; there is nothing covered, but all things are open to the eyes of him with whom we should do.
And Memucan came unto him, and he sat in the summer, which he had for himself alone: and said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from his throne.
and when he had taken it in his hands, he ate, and came to his father and mother, and gave them of it, and they ate; but he would not tell them that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
And they sent messengers to the people that dwelt in Kiriath Jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent again the ark of Jehovah, and come and take it to thy land.
And he said unto them, Out of the fruit came forth bread, and out of the strong came forth sweet; and they could not three days explain the parable.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly, that the asses were found. But concerning the matters of the kingdom, of which Samuel spake, he told him not.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David, and it was told him, and it pleased him.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, they also followed after them in the battle.
And he spake with them, and, behold, a certain nobleman was coming up, whose name was Goliath the Gittite, of Gath, out of the band of the Philistines; and he spake according to these words, and David heard.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will be with thee, and thou shalt cut off Midian as one man.
For to me that liveth is Christ, and to die there is profit.
And they troubled and afflicted the children of Israel that year; for eighteen years they oppressed all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorite, which is in Gilead.
and said, O Jehovah God of Israel, why is this thing come to pass in Israel, that there should be one tribe lacking in Israel?
And he returned the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and said, I will surely consecrate unto Jehovah the pieces of silver out of mine hand for my son to make a molten image: now will I return them to thee.
And Japhlet the Gileadite was a mighty man: he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead was his father.
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon; and they gathered five thousand men of them in the highways, and followed hard after them, and smote two thousand men of them.
And the land rested forty years: and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
And he said, Wherefore is my lord pursuing after his servant? what have I done, and what is in my hand?
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore have ye come up against us? And they said, We have come up to bind up the son, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And Saul had given Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of David, to Palti the son of Laish, the daughter of Gallim.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite;
And she called the youth, saying, Fear hath taken away from Israel: because of the taking of the ark of God, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
All ye have conspired against me, and not one of you hath answered me, when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and not one of you hath pity on me, neither hath I opened my eyes, that my servant hath been moved with my son against me, as at this day.
And the name of that place was called, The place of weeping, or of tears; and there they offered sacrifices unto Jehovah.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me, for he hath found grace in mine eyes.
The river of Kioreth them, That the old stream, the river of the river; My soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
And the house of Joseph went up to Beth-el, and Jehovah with them.
And the number of them that smote were three hundred men: and all the people fell upon their knees to drink water.
Because thou didst not obey the voice of Jehovah, nor did his fierce wrath against Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
But Jonathan heard not when his father commanded the people with the oath. So he put out the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes shined.
And we have hoped for the hope of the soul, a hope both of truth and truth, and entereth into that which is within the veil;
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal unto Abel, saying, I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and brought thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers, saying, I will not break my covenant with you.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage.
And the parable came to his house at Mizpah; and his daughter came out, and met him on his way with music and dancing; and she was only child, and had no sons or daughters.
For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, and God rested the seventh day from all his works.
For they that speak such things speak plainly to seek a country.
And David went up, and his men, and smote the people of Geshur, and the Jebusites, and the Amalekites, ( for they are the inhabitants of the land from of old), as thou comest in to Shur and to the land of Egypt.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And the men of Israel were grieved on that day; and Saul charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread till the evening, and I have been avenged of mine enemies: and none of the people tasted bread.
And the Philistines heard the noise of their cry, and said, What is this great cry among the Hebrews? and it was clear unto them that the ark of Jehovah had come unto the camp.
that ye may not be slothful; but believing through faith and patience, heirs.
For he that sanctify and those that are sanctified are all from one; for he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
And it came to pass after Abimelech, that the son of Jvah, the son of Puah, a man of Issachar, rose up to deliver Israel; and he dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim.
But Amasa slept until midnight; and he arose, and took both the doors of the gate, and the posts thereof, and the lock, and laid them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the hill, which looketh toward Hebron.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon you with power, and ye shall be as a prophet with them, and shall be turned into another man.
Because it was granted unto you for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him,
And when they were come, he looked at Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah unto Mizpah.
And it said, Shall I leave my fatness, which both gods and men make of, to come to be exalted among the trees?
But if I say unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee, go, for Jehovah hath sent you away.
And the children of Israel said unto the king of Israel, Thou art our prince, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast been our saviour out of the hand of Midian.
And the thing was evil in the eyes of Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
Now when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: whither he turned, he slew them.
And he went to Ramah in Ramah; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Ramah in Ramah.
Why hast thou not hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, but hast turned to the prey, and hast done evil in the sight of Jehovah?
For it is for correction that thou mayest bear: God hath dealt with you as with children; for what son is there, whom his father hath not reproved?
And when the people saw him, they praised their God; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us.
And he brought near the tribe of Benjamin by their families; and the children of Judah were taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken; and they sought him, and was not found.
If then there be any consolation in Christ, the love of love, every one of the hearts of the Spirit, mercy and mercy,
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second son was Abijah; and they were judges in Beersheba.
But the people would not hear the voice of Samuel, and said, Nay; but there must be a king over us.
And Jehovah sent thee on a way, saying, Go, and utterly destroy the sinners of Amalek, and fight against them until they be consumed.
And the men of the guard answered Jonathan and his armourbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will show thee a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armourbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes: I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore he is able also to deliver them unto the uttermost parts of God by him, seeing he liveth to make intercession for them.
And Deborah the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, was on that day, saying,
And he said unto all Israel, Thou shalt be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what is good in thine eyes.
And the people repented concerning Benjamin; for Jehovah had made a breach among the tribes of Israel.
And the other was grieved with her, for Jehovah had not given her children.
The mountains trembled before Jehovah, and this Sinai, before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
But it displeased Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Behold, if women have been restrained from us, as heretofore, then the vessels of the young men are holy, and it is common; and even to-day it is sanctified in the vessel.
And Japhlet fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Ishtob; and there were gathered with vain men, and went out with him.
For there is a house of rest, And a sabbath unto the people of God.
And he went up by the way of them that dwell in tents on the east, between Nobah and pottage, and smote the camp; for the camp was at ease.
teaching of baptizing, and putting on of hands, and resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment.
And if any man say unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat at once, and then take as much as thy soul desireth; then he would answer him, nay; but if not, I will take it by force.
And they bruised and oppressed the children of Israel in that year, and smote all the children of Israel, that were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which is in Gilead.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz: the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, the uncle of Saul.
And when they blew their trumpets in three places round about the camp, and brake their bottles, they held their lamps in their left hands, and with their right hand the trumpets which they blew, and cried out, The sword of Jehovah, and the sword.
For they could not bear that which was commanded: and if so much as a beast touched the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart.
And David said unto him, Whose thou? And he said, Where art thou? And he said, I am a child of Egypt, servant to a man, an Amalekite, and my lord alone: for three days I am sick.
And it was so terrible that Moses said, I fear and am troubled.
And Saul went down to the house of Gibeah; and with him went the girdle, whose heart God had touched.
And it came to pass at that time, when it was laid down in his place, and his eyes became dim, that he could not see;
And he said unto him, Why askest thou my name, which is wonderful?
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was very sorrowful.
Yea, we had the fathers of our flesh to chastise us, and we gave them respect. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
Jehovah called the name of Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
For God is my witness, how I long after you all in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said to the boil, Give the portion which I have given thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it beside thee.
and having fallen, returned again to repentance, having crucified again to themselves the Son of God, and uncovered to the public shame.
And he said, My gods, which I have made you have taken, and the priest, and ye go; and what is to me more? and what do ye say unto me?
Before the lamp of God went forth, Samuel fell in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And Jonathan the son of Saul rose up, and went to David to the forest, and strengthened his hand in God.
and the gold, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for their five rulers, even their five rulers, from the fortified city unto the wall of the field, even unto the great stone, where they set the ark of Jehovah unto this day in the field of Joshua king of Beth Shemesh.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but have rejected me as the king over them.
And David ran and stood over the Philistines, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it: and when the Philistines saw that their mighty men were dead, they fled.
And it came to pass after a season, in the days of the wheat harvest, that Shammah the son went to his wife with a young goat. And he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And David pursued them from the evening even unto the evening of the day; and not one of them was left, but only four hundred young men who went in flight upon camels.
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and there make the kingdom strong in the hand of Saul.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them dwelt in Geba Geba; and the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
I will not again drive out from before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died:
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the forest, and strengthened his hand in God.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Thou shalt not see his face, nor the height of his height; for I will not have him: for the eyes of Jehovah are not; man regardeth the appearance, but Jehovah seeth the heart.
And David left the stuff that he had with him in the care of the stuff, and ran to the battle; and he came and told how his brethren were doing.
And the people came into the wood, and, behold, the honey ran; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And before they offered the fat for a burnt-offering, the servant of the priest came, and said unto the man that was sacrificed, Give the priest flesh for nought: for he shall not boil flesh from thee, but only raw.
that I might know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being reconciled unto his death;
And Jehovah said unto them, Did not the Egyptians, the Amorites, the children of Ammon, and the Philistines?
And he said, Let me die with the Philistines: and when he had smitten the pillars, the house fell upon all the princes, and the rest of the multitude that was there; and he slew many more at his death, than he had slain before in his life.
And she had her seat under the palm-tree between Ramah and Bethel, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her to be judged.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and saddled the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed himself to the ground;
And the princes of the Philistines came to her, and said, Search him, and learn of him in the strength of his great strength, and how we may be able to overcome him, that we may bind and afflict him; which if thou wilt do, we will give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And he smote them from Aroer, from the way of Minnith, and from the twenty cities, even unto Abel; and they smote them with the sword. And the children of Ammon were oppressed before the children of Israel.
But thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man according to his own heart; and Jehovah hath commanded to be prince over his people, because thou hast not seen that which Jehovah commanded.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good. And are ye still still? be not slothful to go to possess the land.
a new and new way, which he hath sanctified for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh,
Now Samuel did not know Jehovah, but the word of Jehovah had not been revealed unto him.
And he answered and said, This is nothing except the sword of the son of Joash, the man of Israel: God hath delivered into his hand Midian and all the camp.
And Jehoash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye contend for Baal? or will ye deliver him? he that shall contend with him, let him be put to death by the morning: if he be a god, let him contend for himself, for he hath broken down his altar.
But remain in the flesh more for your sakes.
And he shall appoint of them captains of thousands and of hundreds, and of hundreds, and of treading the field, and to gather his corn, and to make him arms and chariots.
And when the day of battle was come, there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan, save Saul and Jonathan his son.
Zebulun is a people that reproacheth death, And Naphtali is on the heights of the field.
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that were in Gibeah; and when the Philistines heard of it, Saul blew the trumpet over all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and they saw the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing, and set over them; and the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
And the five men, who went to pass the land of Laish, answered and said unto their brethren, Have ye known that there is in these houses an ephod, and idols, and graven image, and molten image? And now know what ye do.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, to whet every man his field, and his field, and his axe, and his winepress.
And this I pray, that thy love may abound more and more in knowledge and all understanding;
And they rose up, and went to Ziph before Saul, and David and his men in the wilderness of Maon, in the valley of the wilderness.
And they passed and went their way; and the sun went down upon them at Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
And the masters of Gibeah rose up against me; and they went round about the house against me by night: they thought to slay, and my concubine they humbled, and she died.
And Jonathan said unto his young servant, who had his arms, Come, let us go over to the assembly of these men, that have not circumcised; and that Jehovah will help us, for there is no limit to his hand; Jehovah is able to save a great army, and a great company.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war; and Jehovah gave Pul the king of Babylon into his hand, and his hand prevailed against the city of Shaveh.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, Let us pass over, we pray thee, through thy land, unto my place;
And Saul took the spear in his hand, and said, I will cause David to blow him up to the wall. And David departed from him double.
And at Nob, the city of the priests, he slew all the men, and the women, and the little ones, and the little ones, and the oxen, and the asses, and the flocks.
Then answered David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And he returned to Ramah, for his house was there; and he judged Israel there; and he built an altar unto Jehovah there.
And all the nobles of Shechem and Beth Millo came, and they went and made Abimelech king, beside the oak of the pillar that is at Shechem.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, This is what David said.
Now I desire to know you, brethren, that the things which befell me have turned from me unto the coming of the gospel.
And they gave up Jehovah, and became the servants of Baal, and the Nethinim.
And he said unto them, I will not reign over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah reigneth over you.
And all the men of the east that were left of the east, all the hosts of the children of the east, who were yet alive, were fifteen thousand men, and their armies were twenty thousand men, and their armies were forty thousand men; for a hundred and twenty thousand were slain.
And the spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was with his hand.
And the king of Joash went up from the battle unto the king of the house of Judah.
And Abimelech went to smite him, and put him in array against him, and laid him in array against him.
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her in the land of the inheritance of Israel: for they have committed lewdness, and in Israel.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Pui died, the chiefest, and Phinehas.
And Samuel said, Is there any pleasure in Jehovah's burnt offering, and sacrifices, and sacrifices to Jehovah? Behold, it is better than the sacrifice, to give heed than the fat of rams.
And his concubine, which was in Shechem, bare him a son; and he called Abimelech his name.
the five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, that dwell in mount Lebanon, from the mountain of Baal Hermon unto Hamath;
For indeed he was sick, nigh unto death; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but upon me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
And Abigail arose quickly, and went on her ass, and five of her maidens, after the men whom David had sent; and she became David's wife.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah in Ramah.
And he said unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what pleaseth thee.
For whom Jehovah loveth, he will chasten; and every son that he receiveth will be afflicted.
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me thy son David with the sheep.
For this is your tradition, that ye suffer these things: for God doeth to you as a father doeth unto his children; for what son doth not come forth from his father?
And the three hundred men bare the trumpets; and Jehovah sent the sword into all the camp, and they slew one another.
And Jacob blessed the sons of Joseph, and worshipped him, and fell upon the top of his staff.
And Zebah and Zalmunna said, Arise, and smite us, for as is the man, so is his power. So he arose, and slew all Zebah and Zalmunna; and he took away the ornaments of their camels.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and the gods of the Philistines, and did not serve Jehovah.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see that is gone from us: and when they were numbered, behold, Jonathan, and his armourbearer were not there.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of the children of Dan sought for themselves an inheritance to dwell in; for to that day their lot fell not unto them for inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
And the children of Israel were dispersed from thence, according to their tribes, and according to their fathers' houses; and they went out from thence, every man to his own border.
Why did ye not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but took the spoil, and did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And they turned and went, and put the little children, and the cattle, and the goods, before them.
And after this they sought Jehovah, whether he would come thither. And Jehovah answered, Behold, he is hid at home.
But he made himself as nothing; He taketh the form of a servant, and made himself as men.
And it came to pass, when she was praying before Jehovah, that she was called her mouth.
And the people of Bethel came, and sat there until evening before God; and they lifted up their voice, and wept bitterly.
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin by their families, and the family of the Machirites, and Saul the son of Kish; and when they sought him, he could not be found.
I pray thee, forgive the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a new house for ever: for my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil is not found in thee all thy days.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; but I asked him not whence he was, neither did he shew me his name.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, saying, Jehovah is with thee, O mighty man of men.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, that the ears of all that hear of it shall be burned.
And Caleb said, He that shall take Kiriath Sepher, and lay it waste, to him will I give my daughter Achsah.
And it shall come to pass, that ye shall come to the house of the Philistines, where the keepers of the Philistines shall be there; and when ye come into the city, ye shall meet with the voice of the prophets coming down from the high place, with the tambinstruments and the flute, and the flute, and the harp, before them; and they shall prophesy.
And he said unto them, This time will I recompense the Philistines, for I will do them evil.
And as for the asses that thou didst lose three days ago, set not thine heart upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
David therefore sent messengers, and they knew that Saul had surely come.
And he returned from the image of stone that was in Gilgal; and he said, I have a secret burden unto thee, O king. And he said, Be quiet. And all that stood before him went out.
And Saul cast a spear at him to smite him: and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to slay David.
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them; and the men of Penuel answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered him.
But to which of the angels hath he said, Sit down at my right hand, Till I make thy enemies thy footstool.
And all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to whet every man his portion, and his bed, and his axe, and his mamack.
He bringeth the poor out of the dust, and bringeth him out of the lowest places, to give them their place among princes, and for their inheritance the glory of glory: for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath made them the foundation of the world.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees;
Is the wheat harvest not this day? I will call unto Jehovah, that he may send thunder and rain, that ye may know and see that your wickedness is great that thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, and make a king for yourselves.
And it came to pass after some days to take her, that he went aside to see the dead bodies of the lion: and, behold, a swarm of bees was in the mouth of the lion, and a honeycomb.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit of God is troubled thee.
Behold, I will put a wool of wool in the threshing-floor, and if the dew be upon the wool, and it be dry upon all the earth, then will I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
I thank my God for all remembrance of you,
Have they not found, and divide the spoil, a maid, and two young women, to every one of them? A prey of iron, a prey of broidered work, of a weaver's work, a portion of double work for the neck of a destroyer?
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and they plundered their tents.
And he said unto them, Out of the fruit came forth flesh, and out of the strong came forth sweet; and they could not three days explain the parable.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the workers, beware of the circumcision.
And Japhlet passed over to the children of Ammon, to make war against them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
And Jehovah will give thee up into my hand, and I will smite thee, and I will take away thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines to the fowl of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth, that all the earth may see that Israel hath a God.
And the people were faithful unto Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, and had seen all the great work of Jehovah which he had done for Israel.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and sanctified one of his sons, who was his priest.
not forsaking our own selves, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much more, as ye see the day coming.
And though indeed he was the Son of God, being instructed by the things which he suffered,
And they rose up early, and as the morning was breaking, and Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, and I will send thee away. And he arose, and the two of them, he and Samuel went out.
And the princes of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Ende him, and see in his great power, and in which we can prevail him; and we have bound him to afflict him, and we will give unto thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under the oak that was in the midst of Ophrah, to Joash the Hushathite: and his son smote the wheat in the winepress, to help the Midianites.
that every tongue may testify that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And the men of Gibeah rose up against me, and surrounded the house round about me by night, and thought to have slain me; and my concubine they compelled, that she was dead.
Now there was a certain man of Seraiah, and of the tribe of Dan, whose name was Amon, and his wife was barren.
For Christ entered not into a sanctuary made by hands, a copy of the true one, but into heaven, to appear before God on our behalf,
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose early in the morning, and he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said unto his daughter-in-law, Refresh thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward go thy way.
And there went out a mighty man out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
Salute all saints in Christ Jesus. The brethren salute you.
who need not daily as the high priests, to offer sacrifice, first for his own sin, and for the people's; for this he did, when he offered up himself.
So God smote that day, even Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And he went to Ramah in Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he went and prophesied, until he came to Ramah in Ramah.
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was sore troubled.
I exhort, I exhort you, to be of the same mind in the Lord.
and all the borders thereof from the Arnon unto the river, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
And David pursued, and he and four hundred men, and two hundred men, because they were too tired to pass over the river.
And they slew Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all the men of valor, and all men of valor; and they escaped not a man.
And he shall take thy bondmen, and thy maidservants, and the best of thy servants, and the best of thy asses, and shall make them his work.
And David said unto him, Whom art thou? And where art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant of an Amalekite; and my master left me, for three days ago I fell sick.
And Saul and all the people that were with him cried together, and they came to the place of the battle; and, behold, every man's sword was turned upon his neighbour, and there was a very great slaughter.
And Samuel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah brought thunder and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel greatly.
For I have declared to him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knew: because his sons made themselves odious, and he did not withhold them.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto the wife of Jonathan the son of Shammah, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to possess that we have? Is it not so?
according to my hope and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in all confidence, as always, even so also Christ shall be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man return, that he may go back to his place where thou hast appointed him, that he may go down with us to the battle, that he may not go down with us to the battle, that he may make atonement for his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went, and went, and two of the men with him; and they came to the woman by night, and said, I pray thee, to me by the spirit, and cause to come up to me whom I say unto thee.
the Holy Spirit, that is, the Holy Spirit, that hath not yet been manifested the way of the holy, even the first tabernacle,
All Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was a prophet of Jehovah.
For if the first covenant had been without blemish, then it would not be sought a second time.
And he said, What hast thou done? And he said, Because I saw that the people scattered from me, and ye came not at the appointed time, and the Philistines came at Michmash;
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered the Moabites into your hand the Moabites. And they followed him, and took the plains of the Jordan against the Moabites, and let no man pass over.
And they went out to the way of the wilderness, and the enemy pursued them there; and they that wrought the city also came out to meet them.
Then all the wicked and unrighteous men that came with David answered, and said, Because they came not with us, we will not give them any thing of the spoil which we have recovered: but let every man take his wife and his children, and be at ease with them, and go his way.
And it came to pass, when he came to the place of the den, that the Philistines cried out to meet him, and the spirit of Jehovah came sore upon him, and as the flax was wont to be consumed by the fire, so the bands with which he was bound were broken, and loosed.
And when he saw her, he grieved him, and said, Alas, my daughter! I am oppressed with sorrow, and thou art the chief of my affliction: for I have sworn unto Jehovah, and I will not take it again.
And when she heard the noise and the cry, said, What is the cause of this cry? And the man came quickly, and gave the tidings to him.
And David said unto himself, Behold, I am consumed one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me, but that I must escape unto the land of the Philistines: and Saul shall cease from searching for me in all the land of Israel, and I will escape from his hand.
And she said, O my lord, thy soul liveth. My lord, I am the woman that stood with thee, to pray unto Jehovah.
For when the people were numbered, there was not a man of the children of Jabeshgilead.
And he led them before the king of Moab; and they dwelt with him all the days of David in the fortress.
of the doctrine of baptism, and of putting on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, saying, Bring hither the ephod for me. And Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
who was faithful to him that gave him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house.
And Saul said unto the servant that had the charge of his hand, Take thy sword, and put it through me, before these uncircumcised men come, and make sport of me. But his servant, trembling, would not do so. Then Saul took his sword, and fell upon it, and slew himself.
And it came to pass from time to time, that the daughters of Israel went to speak unto the daughter of nuts the Gileadite, four days in a year.
And Jehovah had compassion on Hananiah, and she bore three sons and two daughters: and the child was born before Jehovah.
And Saul heard that David and the men that were with him had been found, and Saul was sitting at Gibeah under the oak in Ramah; and his spear was in his hand, and all his servants were round about him.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner begat Abner,
And thou shalt say unto them, I will not be prince over you, neither shall my son be prince over thee: for Jehovah shall be ruler over you.
Ask thy young men, and they will tell thee; let the young men find favour in thine eyes; for we come in a good day: give, I pray thee, that thy hand may find to thy servants, and to thy son David.
And they turned and went, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the spoil before them.
Now let us be diligent, that we may enter into that place, that no one in the same way of the faith should fall.
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah spake unto him, and it came to pass, because he feared the house of his father, and the men of the city, to do by day, that he should by night.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the bottles, and put the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand with which to blow; and they cried out, The sword of Jehovah, and of Israel.
And he shall take thy daughters to be with thee, and thy daughters to be with him, and to be with him, and to the baker.
and the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth over him, and he rent it as the sole of a young goat, and there is nothing in his hand; and he hath not told his father, nor to his mother that which he hath done.
And the tabernacle shall be holy after the second veil.
Then answered all the wicked men and the wicked men of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and depart.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred men, arose from the land of Keilah, went astray, and did not go down to the place where they should stay: and it was told Saul that David fled from Keilah, and had escaped; wherefore he forded to depart.
And the Levite shall dwell with the man, and the young man shall be unto him as one of his sons.
And he said unto her, If they would bind me fast with new cords, with which no work is done, let me be weak, and be as another man.
And he sent messengers, and knew that he was surely yet come thither.
For this cause the purchase of the things in heaven should be made clean with these things; but the things which are in heaven are more than these.
And Jehovah left them, and drove them not out once, and gave them not into the hand of Joshua.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: therefore send therefore, and bring him to me; for he is the son of death.
And Saul took him that day, and let him go no more to his father's house.
and Carmel, and Carmel, and the suburbs of the Kenites;
And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the brother of Shua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah, that bare an ephod, they did not know that Jonathan was gone.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and day, as we were with them keeping the sheep.
And he went from year to year to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah; and he judged Israel in all these places.
And he cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast delivered this very great salvation and salvation into the hand of thy servant; and, behold, I die for thirst, and shall fall into the hands of the uncircumcised.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Saul was old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Israel.
And the Hebrews went over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
Wherefore we leave the word of Christ, that we should walk in incorruption, not laying again the foundation of repentance, and faith toward God;
But we will not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel condemned the children of Israel at Mizpah.
And the man said, I am he that cometh from the battle; I flee to-day from the battle. And he said, What is this, my son?
And Jehoash the son of Joash began to reign when he was old; and his body was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the place of the old; and the name of his father was Ophrah.
Mine heart goeth forth to the princes of Israel, and they that offer themselves willingly among the people: bless ye Jehovah.
And the joints of his loins were upon his feet; And a spear was fastened between his shoulders.
For every house hath a building; but God built all things.
And there was a man in Maon, and his work in Carmel; and the man very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his flock in Carmel.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew that day, when the Edomites were there, he would say unto Saul, I am guilty of all the house of thy father.
Jehovah called also Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
that he told her all his heart, and said unto her, A razor hath not gone up upon my head; for I am a Nazarite to God from the womb of my mother: if I have been shaved, then hath my power turned away from me, and I am become as one of the children of men.
And Saul said, They have brought them from Amalek: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the cattle, that they might be sacrificed unto Jehovah thy God; but the rest we have slain.
And David sent forth ten young men: and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to the Carmelite, and salute him in my name.
And the ambush hasted, and ran at Gibeah; and the ambush drew near, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But the children of Sisera fled to the tent of Jabath, and the wife of Heber the Kenites; for there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenites.
Neither through the blood of the goats and the calves, but through his own blood entered into the holy place, having obtained the everlasting redemption.
Not that I speak in respect to lack, for I have learned in what manner I am, to be content in it.
For ye also beseech the prisoners, and put up with them the baggage of your wares with joy, because ye knew that ye had a better and everlasting possession.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to stand against this Philistine, nor to fight against him: for thou art a youth, but he is a mighty man from his youth.
And every one that was in trouble, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was grieved in soul, came together to him, and he became captain over them: about four hundred men were joined unto him.
For by one offering he hath made perfect unto all the holy things.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, who dwelt in the hill-country, and in the south, and in the lowland.
Then shall the Spirit of Jehovah come upon you, and ye shall prophesy with them, and shall be turned into another man.
And he fell down at her feet, and fell, and lay down; and at her feet he fell; and he fell, and there he fell down dead.
Saying, This blood is the sign of the covenant which God hath made with you.
And Saul saw the people of the tumult, and was afraid; and his heart was very much afraid.
always always in my prayer for all of you, making the prayer with joy.
Only for the generations of the children of Israel, to teach them war, only they that knew them not.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Be not silent for us from crying unto Jehovah our God, and he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the officers saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, that we may enter into the city, and we will shew thee kindness.
And when Samuel had told all the words of Jehovah all the words of the Lord unto the king,
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah, and I will pray for you unto Jehovah.
But Hananiah went not up, for she said unto her husband, I will tarry until the child is weaned: then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the children of Israel were moved with compassion for Benjamin their brother, saying, To-day one tribe is cut off from Israel.
And Saul said, Take ye yourselves among the people, and tell them to bring me every man his ox and his ram, and slay them upon this stone, and eat, and ye shall not sin against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him till the night, and slew them there.
And David enquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thine hand.
And Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
His Son is the glory of his glory, the image of his substance, and of his power, and of the word of his power, when he hath cleansed us of our sins, and sat down on the right hand of the king on high;
And she had men secretly in the inner chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and Jonathan the son: and the cords were broken by him, as a man's beam is broken with a flame, and his strength came not to light.
for the obtaining of the glory of God which is in Christ Jesus.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled; and they pursued them diligently in the battle.
And it came to pass, as he had finished offering the burnt-offering, that Samuel was come: and Saul went out to meet him, and to bless him.
For certain, when they heard it, they provoked; but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
And the parable of Israel was six years for six years: and the children of Japhlet died, and they buried in the cities of Gilead.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who came not unto Jehovah in the assembly of all Israel? for they had sworn a great oath that whosoever came not up to Mizpah to the Lord should be put to death.
Not that I speak from need, for I have learned that I should be content in what manner I am.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah;
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew that evil was determined by my father to come upon thee, would I not tell it thee?
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, and said unto David, Know thou certainly, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.
And behold, I will send a young man, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon this side of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no harm: as Jehovah liveth.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
being able to deal gently with the ignorant and led astray; for he himself is surrounded by weakness.
And they rose up in the morning, and it began to be light; and Samuel called Saul upon the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may let thee go. And Saul arose, and they went out, he and Samuel.
Is not the god of thy God thy God put thee in possession? and whatsoever Jehovah our God hath driven out before us, that we may possess it.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle, and the chief priest of our confession, Christ Jesus;
And they said unto him, Inquire of God, that we may know whether our journey is to be prospered.
of the holy place, a servant, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah did set up, and not man;
Now the prince of the city heard the words of Gath, the son of Obed, very wroth.
and they shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
For every commandment was spoken by Moses to all the people, and took the blood of oxen and goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book, and all the people.
And she continued to pray before Jehovah, and waited upon her mouth.
For we have not here a city, but we seek that which is to come.
Then David came to Ziklag, and sent to the elders of Judah his neighbours, saying, Take ye a blessing of the enemies of Jehovah.
But it came to pass, when they were in confusion, that they escaped, and passed by the place of the idols, from whence he returned. And he came to Jotbathah.
For, having done what was right in the sight of God, ye have lacked of yourselves before his word.
And Jair died, and was buried in the place that was called over.
And the man said unto him, I that have come out of the ranks, and I out of the ranks have fled to-day: and he saith, What is the thing, my son?
Let us also therefore, having so great a cloud of witnesses round about us, putting aside every weight, and sin which is ready for us, run with patience the race that lieth before us;
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us smite them until the morning, until there is not a man of them alive. And they said, Do as seemeth right unto you. And the priest said, Let us come near unto God.
And he went from year to year to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and to Mizpah, and judged Israel in all these places.
If indeed, would they not have been offered, because of the fear of the worshippers once, having no conscience of sins?
And the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this nation is not true to my covenant which I made with their fathers, and hath not heard my voice,
And Ehud stretched out his left hand, and took the sword from off his right shoulder, and cast it into his flesh.
Yea, Jehovah giveth Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou and thy sons with me; also the camp of Israel shall be given into the hand of the Philistines.
And it came to pass at that time, when Abiathar the son of Jehoiada, the son of Barachel, fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod with him.
Behold, I am: give witness against me before Jehovah, and before the man that hath anointed the holy oil: whose ox or ass have I taken? to whom have I been faithless? who hath been beaten down by me? from whose hand have I taken it? I will give it all to thee.
Neither did Manasseh cast out the inhabitants of Beth Shean, and her towns, and Taanach, and her towns, and the inhabitants of Dor, and the inhabitants thereof, and the inhabitants of Ibleam, and the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the inhabitants thereof; but the Canaanites dwelt in that land.
by the new and the living way which he made unto us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, with the woman, constrained him; and he heard their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood upon the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hear you.
And David slew them from the evening even unto the evening, and there was not a man of them, but four hundred young men, who had gotten upon camels, and fled.
Brethren, take heed lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed art thou of Jehovah: I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
And the fig tree said unto them, Should I not cease to bring away my sweet, and my good fruits, that I may go forth over the trees?
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they spoil the threshing-floor.
And every priest shall take his place in the day of the altar by day, and the priest shall do what is necessary, and shall make again the same sacrifices, and again the priest's sin.
And it came to pass, when they had carried it, that the hand of Jehovah was upon the city with great fear; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and drove out upon them.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw a mighty man, or any valiant man, he took him to his service.
And she wept before him the seven days, while they had the feast. And it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she pressed him, and told the children of her people a riddle.
to whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all: first by interpretation of the king's interpretation, and after that also the king of Salem, which is the King of peace;
And it came to pass, that Jonathan sought to go over to the garrison of the Philistines, and the rocks stood on both sides, and the rocks were like the teeth on the one side, and on the other, and the name of the one was called a son of Senaah.
And Shammah the son said unto the young man that held hold on his hand, Let me alone, and let me see the posts on which the house is established, and I lean upon them.
holding up the word of life, that I might have something to boast in the day of Christ, that I run not in vain, nor in vain.
And he said unto them, I will not reign over you, neither will my son reign over thee; Jehovah shall reign over thee.
And Saul clothed David with his attire, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a breastplate.
And it is yet more abundantly: for a different priest riseth after the similitude of Malchijah,
And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of the dead, judged Israel at that time.
And they set their troops against them; and they took all the increase of the earth unto Gaza, until there was no bread in Israel, neither sheep, nor oxen, nor asses.
So David went, and he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the valley, and the rest remained.
But Sihon would not go forth, and let Israel pass through his land; and Sihon gathered all his people together, and set his people in array in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
How much more shall ye judge him that hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hast counted the blood of the covenant with which he was sanctified, and blasphemed the Spirit of grace?
This people that die receive tithes; but there is a tenth of whom it is testified, that he liveth.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and took possession of the hill country: but they could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And he shall take thy bondmen, and thy maidservants, and thy servants, and thy asses, and make them for his work.
Keep thy place now, while I plead with thee before Jehovah, and give thee the account of the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hath made known to thee and to your fathers.
And he smote at Nob, the city of the priests, with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and women, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land: ye shall cast down their altars: but ye have not obeyed my voice: why hast ye done this?
For we have a good gift for us, that they may not be perfected from us.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He verily told us that the asses were found; and of the matter of the kingdom he spake not unto him that which Samuel had said.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and his armor after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armourbearer slew after him.
I will praise my God in all memory of thee,
And Ehud stretched out his left hand, and took the sword from his right hand, and sent it into his bowels.
By faith he forsook Egypt, and did not fear the king's wrath; for he endured, as if he had seen him that is not of God.
So David smote the Philistines with the sling, and with the stone; and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in David's hand.
And the angel of Jehovah appeareth unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And the uncle of Saul said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto thee?
But now he hath begun a more excellent service: but so much as he is to be justified by a good covenant, which is established on the principle of promise.
And Samuel told him all the words, and kept nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which is good in his sight.
In those days the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called it Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And after him the son of Bethlehem judgeth Israel.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, O David my son: thou shalt do great things, and thou shalt do great things, and thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
She hath laid her hand to the hammer, And her right hand to the hammer of the workmen; And she smote with Sisera, and smote by his head, And smote in his palaces.
And the song went up to Saul in Gibeah, saying, Behold, David lieth with us in the strong places of the wood, in the mount of the mountain, at the right hand of the wilderness.
harden not your heart, as in the provocation, In the day of temptation in the wilderness;
And the man took the kid and the present, and offered it up unto Jehovah upon the rock. And he did marvellously, and Adam, and his wife looked on.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me back to battle against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah hath given them before me, am I to you for a head?
And no man taketh the honour, but called by God, even as Aaron also.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed thou, my son David, also do thou work, and prosper thee. And David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the place that was with it, in which the stones of gold were, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Beth Shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and offered sacrifice the same day unto Jehovah.
But we are not the children of our departure, but of faith unto the salvation of the soul.
And the same night the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go down into the camp; for I have delivered them into thy hand.
And the roll went up from the city, and a pillar of smoke, and Benjamin turned behind; and, behold, the perfection of the city was toward heaven.
And it came to pass, when he returned to take her, that he turned aside to see the dead bodies of the lion; and, behold, a swarm of bees was in the midst of the lions, and honey.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the field of the Philistines seven months.
And Saul fell at once with much length upon the earth, and was afraid, because of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
Now therefore, behold, I know that thou shalt surely reign, and the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And Moses was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of the things that were to be said,
And Jehovah did for himself as he spake by my hand; and Jehovah rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and gave it to thy neighbour David.
And Saul gave Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of David's wife, to Phage the son of Laish, the daughter of Gallim.
And the words that David spake were heard, and were told before Saul.
and thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever: for Jehovah will destroy all the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
And it came to pass, when the day came to pass, that the woman came, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where she was laid, until it was light.
Not because I desire a gift: but I desire that I may abound unto you.
And they found themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.
And he answered and said, Ye have taken away my gods, which I have made me, and the priest, and all that I have; and ye say, What aileth thee?
And Micah said, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, that the Levites are become my priest.
And one of the people answered one of the people, and said, Thy father commanded the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread this day, and the people faint.
And Jehovah said unto him, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel triumph against me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
even to choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to me for a priest, to go up upon my altar, to burn incense, to bear an ephod before me, and I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings of the offerings of the children of Israel.
And Saul saw David from that day and forward.
And he returned to Ramah, for there was his house, and there he judged Israel; and he built there an altar to Jehovah.
But my beloved, if we say this, we know that thou hast good things in you, things that go with salvation.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast caused me to go down, and thou hast been among them that trouble me; and I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not return.
And they were very good unto us, and gave us no trouble; neither was we lost any thing in the wilderness.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and told them in the ears of Jehovah.
And Ehud went forth through the porch, and shut the doors of our face, and shut them.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under the oak, which was in the valley of Nimshi, and was of Joash the father of the house of Gad; and when he had threshed his son, and made clean corn by the winepress, to flee from Midian,
But the princes of the Philistines were angry with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man return, that he may return to his place where thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be an adversary to us: for with what shall this man make atonement for his lord? shall it not be with the heads of these men?
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the wilderness on the south side of the wilderness.
and to God our Father, the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And it came to pass, when the time had come after the time of the month, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, because I besought him of Jehovah.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth;
and to Jesus, between a new covenant, and to the blood of the living, speaking better than Abel.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill-country of Gaash.
But call to remembrance the former days, in which ye were lightened, ye afflicted a great fight.
And they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have a commandment to take the tithe of the people according to the law, that is to say, of their brethren; for they themselves came out of the loins of Abraham.
And he stood up, and cried unto the bands of Israel, and said unto them, Why art ye come out prepared to fight? am not I a Philistine, and ye the servants of Saul? choose a man of you, and let him come down, and fight against him.
Wherefore also Jesus, that he might sanctify the people by their blood, without the gate suffered.
And Saul sent messengers to fetch David; and she said, He is sick.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, We have returned unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all of us the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the labour of love, which ye have shewn toward his name, in that ye ministered unto the saints, and minister.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Let me, I pray thee, shew thee a riddle: if thou shalt tell me the seven days of the feast, and have found out, I have given thee thirty linen robes, and thirty changes of garments.
And it was so, that, when he had departed from Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all these signs came to pass that day.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah; and he built the first altar that he built unto Jehovah.
And they went out into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and stamped the grapes; and they rejoiced, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
And he reigned over Israel three and twenty years; and his body was nine hundred and three years in his death.
And they went out from the west side of the city, and ten thousand men, who were chosen out of the city, went up against the inhabitants of the city; and the battle was inflamed against the children of Benjamin: and they understood not that they should not see that they should not die.
And every priest shall stand continually daily, and every one shall offer the same sacrifices, which can not take away sin.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember that Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: go quickly, for he is come this day into the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place.
And David came to Ziklag, and sent the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, Behold a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
In that day I will accomplish against thee all things which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.
Is not this David of whom they answered, saying, Saul hath smitten his thousands, and David with his ten thousands?
And he overtook Saul, and his three sons, and his servants the same day.
And he went out from the land of Egypt, and did not fear the king's anger; for he tarried as though he had seen the invisible man.
And when Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines, they were troubled, and were afraid.
And it came to pass, when Samuel saw Saul, that Jehovah answered him, Behold, the man of whom I said unto thee, This is he that shall judge my people.
And when the king sat down upon his couch ( according to custom), Jonathan rose by the wall; and Abner sat by Saul's side; and David's place was made void.
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah, who appointed Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt,
And the servants of Saul told him what David had said.
But if not, let fire come out of Abimelech, and consume the men of Shechem, and the house of the Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of the Millo, and consume Abimelech.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn over Saul, seeing I have cast him away from Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the son of Bethlehem: for I have given me a king among his sons.
Harden not your heart, As in the provocation; In the day of temptation in the wilderness,
But I am afflicted by both, having the desire for death, but being with Christ:
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If with all your heart ye turn away unto Jehovah, turn aside the gods of the alien from among you, and Ashtaroth; and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will bring forth my name from the beginning, even all things which I have spoken concerning his house.
Strengthen your hands, and strengthen your hands;
And it came to pass, when she came in, that she urged him to ask her father the field; and she lighted off the ass, and Caleb said unto her, What aileth thee?
And six hundred men turned and fled into the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock for four months.
And she said unto Shammah, Tell me, I pray thee, in that which is thy strength, and that thou mayest be bound against thee.
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him; and many were overthrown, and wounded, even unto the entering of the gate.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver which were taken from thee, whereof thou hast spoken a curse, and spake it in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me, and I took it. And his mother said, Jehovah bless my son.
And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no meat the second day; for he was grieved for David; for his father had done him ashamed.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we will pass over unto the men, and we will shew ourselves unto them.
But if ye have not that we all have our part, ye are not children, but children of shame.
And Jehovah had spoken unto Samuel in his ears a day before Saul came, saying,
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah; for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days.
And David let down the spoil from him on the hand of a shepherd, and ran into the audience; and he came and inquired of his brethren of peace.
And the heads of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, set themselves in the assembly of the children of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew the sword.
And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And the hand of the children of Israel prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance of sins every year.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this had in the wilderness; so that there is nothing left of all that was his; and he hath rewarded me evil for good.
And the boil took up the rod, and that which was on it, and put it before Saul; and he said, Behold, the lot is laid before thee, that thou mayest eat, because it hath been preserved for thee for the appointed time. And he said, I have called the people. And Saul ate with Samuel that day.
The people answered him, saying, So shall it be done unto the man that killeth him.
And the young Samuel, being older, justified the Lord and men.
And the men of Gibeah came together against me, and compassed the house round about by night: it was their purpose to kill me, and my servant's wife was by them, and was dead.
And they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have a commandment to take the tithe of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham:
but Christ, having come a high priest of the good things to come, by a great and perfect tabernacle not made with hand, that is, not of this creature:
And it came to pass, when the men of Ashdod rose early in the morning, and Dagon fell before the ark before the ark of Jehovah; and they took their place of Dagon, and returned him to his place.
And they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the golden parts, and the molten images, and the molten images.
And David said unto Abiathar, I know in that day, when the Edomites are there, that he will declare to Saul; and I will bring every man of the house of thy father round about.
And his servants told David these words, and the thing pleased David to be the son-in-law of the king, as the law had not fulfilled.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose early in the morning, and he prepared to go: but the father of the damsel said unto his daughter-in-law, Refresh thyself with a piece of bread, and afterward shalt thou go.
And it came to pass on the eighth day, that the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, were a Hebrew, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, and a Pharisee.
And a young man of the servants told Abigail the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; but he spoke with them in anger.
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him return to his father's house.
and I will deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all your oppressors, and I will cast them out from before you, and give you their land.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and went forth from the city; and they smote the thirty men of Israel in the way of their journey; and they smote them in the way of Bethel, and the other to Gibeah, and in the field.
And the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but there shall be a king over us.
And the masters of Shechem set wait for him on the top of the hills, and spoil every one that passed by them in the way; and it was told Abimelech.
And he dwelt in the midst of the land as a stranger in the land of a strange land, and dwelt in tents with Isaac and Jacob, and the sons of Jacob with the same word.
For the creation of the Lord Jesus Christ is in heaven, and we wait for the Lord Jesus Christ,
And the Philistines said unto David, Come hither unto me; and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heaven, and to the beasts of the field.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el: ( the name of the city was Luz).
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make a king for them. Then Samuel said unto the children of Israel, Let every man return to his own city.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast dealt well with me, whereas I have done evil unto thee.
For he waited for the foundation of the city, The work of God, and the work thereof.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
But the man would not tarry that night; but he rose up, and went, and went to Jebus ( also called Jerusalem); and with him were two asses saddled, and his concubine also was with him.
They chose new gods, and war in the gates: there was a shield, and a spear, among forty thousand in Israel.
And Shammah the son, and his father and his mother went to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah: and, behold, a young lion roared against him.
Then Samuel commanded the people the statutes of the kingdom, and wrote them in a book, which he set before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And straight paths make for thy feet; that which is lame can not be turned aside, but be healed.
And Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake; for Jehovah hath sworn to make thee his people.
And Jonathan made David swear again, by the love he had for him; for he loved him, as he loved his own soul.
Let thy way be loosed from the love of money; for he hath said, I will not forsake thee, neither forsake thee.
And the men of Israel said unto David, Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son; for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bore his weapons, Come, and we pass over unto the place of these uncircumcised: it shall be Jehovah's work for us: for there is no occasion to Jehovah to save by many or few.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until the evening, and besought Jehovah, and said, Am I to go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
that the Holy Spirit was made manifest, that the way into the holy place was not yet seen, but the first tabernacle was yet in the beginning,
and again, when he bringeth in the firstborn into the world, he saith, and let all the angels of God worship him.
Awake, aha, awake; awake, awake, and utter a song; arise, awake, and take away thy captives, thou son of Abinadab.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah; do unto me as it goeth out from thy mouth, after that Jehovah hath done for thee vengeance upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and put the jewels of gold, which ye shall return unto him for a trespass offering; and thou shalt send it away, that it may go.
But our life is in heaven, and our eyes are from whence the Saviour, our Lord Jesus Christ,
And he called to the young man his armor, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me, that men say of me, A woman killed him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
So Abimelech rose, and all his people by night, and encamped at Shechem in four places.
And David inquired of Jehovah, and said, Am I to go after this band? shall I be able to overtake them? And he answered, Go after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and get back all things.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: for when Saul saw to be a mighty man, and fit for war, he took him to himself.
And he sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying in his name, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me, to destroy my land?
And it came to pass, when Samuel was dead, that all Israel mourned for him, and they had buried him in Ramah, and buried him in his own city: and Saul had cast out the spiritists, and the soothsayers.
for the first day your fellowship is from the first day.
And he said, I am come in peace: I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me unto the sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
And the men that were with David said unto him, Behold, we are afraid in Judaea, how much more if we go to Keilah against the Philistines?
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Ajalon; and the people fainted.
And Samuel took a lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect thing. And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people fled.
But if thou art afraid to go down, go thou with thy servant, and thou shalt go down to the camp.
Now therefore, my lord, by the living God and by thy living soul, seeing that Jehovah hath kept thee from the blood of blood, and from taking into thy hand the chastisement of thy iniquity, and all thine enemies, and who would do evil to my lord, be as the wife of Nabal.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And the son of Ebed-melech went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city; and Abimelech rose, and the people that were with him from the ambush.
Now the child Samuel was serving Jehovah in the presence of Oded: the word of Jehovah was grievous in those days, and visions were not great.
And the chariots came to the field of Joshua, to Bethshemesh, and there stood there a great stone; and they divided the wood of the cart, and offered the cattle for a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
I repented that I made Saul king; for he turned from following me, and did not keep my word. And Samuel was wroth, and cried to Jehovah all night.
Now Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and sanctified one of his sons, who was his priest.
and my prayer is that thou mayest be multiplied in knowledge and knowledge,
Wherefore I also have given him unto Jehovah: as long as he liveth, he is given to Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah there.
And when he was brought to him, he said unto him, Let no man's heart be troubled in him: I thy servant will go, and fight against the Philistines.
To whom it was said, Thy seed shall be of Isaac.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Far be it: Jehovah liveth, there shall not a hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Do not return, take him in his bed, that I may kill him.
And David arose, and went away, and he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Urijah the son of Arioch king of Gath.
But the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem; and the Jebusites dwelt among the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
But the angel of Jehovah did not appear unto man, nor to his wife any more: and Adam knew that he was Jehovah's angel.
And Samuel said, What is this sound of the weeping of the sheep, and of the tumult of the oxen?
And he saith, Yet once more, he teacheth the things that are moved, that the things may remain, that they may remain.
And while they were merry, behold, the men of the city, the lewd land, surrounded the house, and beat the door, and said unto the elders, the lord of the house, Bring out the man that came to thy house, that we may have sex with him.
See not every man in his own works, But every man also on the things of others.
And he sent, and brought him forth, and brought him, and he was tender, and fair, and beautiful: and Jehovah said, Arise, and anoint him, for this is he.
And the sons of Elon died, and were buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And he went down, and talked with the woman, and she pleased the well.
All things do not murmur and reasonings;
And the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service, he sprinkled with blood.
And Jonathan cried out, and wept after the child, and hasted, and hasted not; and Jonathan's son drew the arrow, and returned to his master.
And he said unto him, Far be it from me: thou shalt not die: behold, my father shall do nothing great or small, but that he will show it me: why should my father hide this thing from me? It is not so.
Strengthen yourselves, and be men, O Philistia; lest ye serve the Hebrews, as they have done unto you; then ye have become men, and have fought.
and Ahijah the son of Ahitub, the brother of Shelah, the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, who bare an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And they came to their brethren, in Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What mean ye?
And Samuel said, When thou wast a little one in thine own eyes, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah anointed thee to be king over Israel.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he sware; and she was a virgin; and it was a custom in Israel.
to the chief congregation, and to the assembly of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect;
And Jonathan smote the band of the Philistines that were at Geba; and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
and give him a piece of figs of figs, and two clusters of raisins, and he eateth, and his spirit returneth unto him: for he hath not eaten bread nor drunk water three days and three nights.
and the riders of the asses, and the riders of the asses, and those that go on the way, speak about it.
And David took to heart these words, and was much afraid of the king of Gath.
And when they had borne it, the band of Jehovah came upon every city with a very great slaughter; and he smote the men of every city, both small and great, and they had come forth in their secret places. And the sting of the horse was with them, and they made themselves white.
And the children of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
Why do ye tread upon my sacrifice, and upon my oblation, which I have commanded in my habitation? and thou didst anoint thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the portion of all the oblations of Israel my people.
And the man, and Elkanah, and all his household went up to offer unto Jehovah the annual burnt offering, and his vow.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle, and the high priest of our confession,
And they took hold of them, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and Jonathan the son. And the ambush was in the chamber, and he broke them off as a thread.
who was faithful to him that appointed him, as Moses also was in his household.
But this man, who was not of their seed, took the tenth from Abraham, and blessed him, to whom God had sworn.
And the wife of Jonathan was given to the companion of the man that was the first man.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out, and came in before them.
And the children of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.
And the man I will not cut off from thine altar, to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die.
And they returned, and came to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the wilderness toward the wilderness.
And he said, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan said unto him, I have tasted a little honey with the edge of the staff that was in my hand: behold, I am to die.
and said unto him, Fear not; for Saul my father findeth thee not, and thou shalt reign over Israel; and I will be unto thee for the second, and also also my father.
And she sent and called the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and go to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And David spake in the wilderness, that the wife of Nabal did shear his sheep.
And the lords of the Philistines brought up unto her seven goodly cords, which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
But ye have forgotten the exhortation which speak unto you, my son, my son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, neither be weary reproved by him;
And when Samuel was turned about to go away, Saul took the hem of his garment, and rent.
And he said unto the servant that was holding him by his hand, Set me here, that I may touch the pillars on which the house dwelleth, that I may lean upon them.
And he said unto her, Give me a drink of water, for I thirst. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him a drink, and covered him.
And when he was come, he saw a dream to his fellow. And he said, Behold, I had a dream, and, behold, I had a dream, and there was a cake of barley bread in the camp of Midian; and they came to the tent, and smote it, and overthrew it; and the tent lay down.
Therefore keep the precepts of the doctrine of Christ, let us go to perfection, putting not the foundation of repentance from the dead, and faith toward God;
Now between the pass by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistines' garrison, there was a sharp rock upon the one side, and a flint on the other side; and the name of the one was altered, and the name of the other.
And Samuel said, How can I go? And if Saul's tidings of it he will bring me to death. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I have come to offer an offering unto Jehovah.
And this I pray, that your love may abound more and more abundantly in knowledge and in all understanding;
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite went up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said to the king, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
and the three staves blow with trumpets, and break the vessels, and hold hold on the lamps, and with their right hand upon the trumpets, and they cry out, The sword of Jehovah, and of Israel.
For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now ye weep, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
Let not I pray thee, my lord, set his heart to this man of nought, for his name's sake, and for his name the Carmelite; and I, thy handmaid, have not seen the young men of my lord, whom thou sentest.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And it came to pass, when David's young men came, they spake unto the Carmelite according to all these words in the name of David, and ceased.
Why then are ye jealous of my sacrifices of meat, and of meat which was commanded by my word, that ye should honor your sons before me, and make yourselves fat with all the best of the offerings of Israel, my people?
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.
And Jehovah was angry with Israel, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, and took them, and sold them to their enemies, that dwelt round about; and they could not stand against their enemies.
If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come unto you; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
Now even the first covenant had the law of God, and the holy place.
And David believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And Samuel said, How goest I? When Saul heard, then he slew me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take a heifer of the herd in thy hand, and say, To sacrifice unto the Lord I come.
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from the Philistines, and fell wounded in mount Gilboa.
And now, my father, behold, and behold the hem of thy garment in my hand: for in that I cut off the hem of thy garment, and slew thee not, know thou, and see that there is neither evil nor trespass in mine hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my soul to take it.
for I have strength in him that giveth me power.
For he spake in a certain place concerning the seventh thing; and God rested in the seventh day out of all his works.
Now go, and thou hast smitten Amalek, and utterly destroyed all that it hath; neither shalt thou have pity on it, nor shalt thou kill man unto a woman, from the infant unto the suckling, from the herd unto the ass, from the camel to the ass.
And she said, As thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee, praying unto Jehovah.
And I pursued after them, and smote them, and delivered it out of their mouth; and they rose up against me, and I took them by the throat; and I did eat, and slew them.
and again, when he bringeth the firstborn into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And Saul took him that day, and let him go no more to his father's house.
and Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them, dwelt in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
And the three elder of the sons of Jesse went, and followed Saul in the battle; and the name of his three sons that went to war were Eliab the first-born, and the second was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.
Yet there is straw and provender for our asses; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man that is with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.
For he looked for the city that hath the foundation, Whose Maker and God is God.
And he tarried seven days, according to the time that Samuel had appointed; but Samuel came not unto Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
And David was greatly afraid, when he knew that Saul had come out to take his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in the land of Hormah.
but to the things which we have attained unto, to the same hold on.
Be not multiplied to speak arrogant things; let the old things depart from thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of all knowledge, and to him are thoughts prepared.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Shammah: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And Japhlet gathered together all the men of Gilead, and they fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim: for they said, The lot of Ephraim ye are in the midst of Ephraim, in the midst of Manasseh.
In the days of Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, In the days of Jai, The ways have ceased; And they that go in the paths of the paths are crooked.
And Saul's servants spake these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a light in thine eyes to be the king's son's son, seeing that I am a poor man, and despised?
And David said unto him, Whose man art thou, and where comest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master went not unto me for three days.
Wherefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see my mission.
In those days there is no king in Israel, Every one that is right in his own eyes.
And Shammah the son called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, even this once, O God, that I may be at once upon the Philistines for my two eyes.
And the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do for the residue of the women, for the women of Benjamin are destroyed?
And the second day Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, and smote eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, every one with the sword.
And as for raiment shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed; but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
And Saul went on this side of the mount, and David and his men were on the other side of the mountain; and David was afraid to escape from the face of Saul; and Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
For I know how to do little, and I know how to have an abundance: in all things, and in all things, I have learned the mystery both to be filled and to be hungry, to have an abundance and to go without.
Ye are all here, O children of Israel, Consider what ye ought to do.
And he showed them the entrance of the city; and they smote the city with the edge of the sword, and the man and all his house they sent away.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul with timbrels, and with gladness, and with instruments of music.
But they hearkened not unto their heads, but lusted after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them, and turned away from the way of their fathers, which had kept the commandment of Jehovah, and did not like their fathers.
And Saul returned, and followed the Philistines no more: and the Philistines returned to their place.
And he took two oxen, and cut them up, and sent them through all the land of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, If any man will not come after Saul and Samuel, this shall be done unto his cattle; and the fear of Jehovah came upon the people, and they came forth like one man.
And he went thence unto the inhabitants of Debir; and the name of Debir beforetime was Kirjathsepher.
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
Now when Eliab his eldest brother heard this, he was wroth with David, and he was angry with David, and said, Why hast thou gone hither? and why hast thou left the few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the wickedness of thy heart, that thou art come down to see the battle.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for thee.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him, and he loved him greatly; and he was a bearer of his weapons.
And he said unto them, I would ask thee, that ye would give me every man the rings of his prey: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up first to make war for us against the Canaanite?
And where the atonement is, there is no sin offering.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this man return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest he be an adversary to us: for with which should he make atonement for his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And he took off his garments, and did as a prophet before Samuel; and he fell down, and bare himself naked, all that day and all that night. This is the cause of the saying, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And be circumcised on the eighth day, of the children of Israel: of the children of Benjamin, a man of the Hebrews, according to the law.
And it came to pass on the morrow, after the new moon, the second day, that David's place was empty; and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why is not the son of Jesse come to eat, or to this day?
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Bethlehem: and the elders of the city trembled at his coming, and said, Why are thou peace?
And they returned unto their brethren in Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What have ye heard?
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon; but they smote five thousand men in the main way; and they pursued after them speedily; and they slew two thousand men.
And Hananiah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk; and now, Eli the priest sat upon the seat of the house of Jehovah.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing over them; and the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied.
And Michal the daughter of Michal, the daughter of Saul, was given to him for Adriel the Meholathite.
If he had been on the earth, he would not have been a priest unto all; for the priests, the ministers of the priests, commanded.
But he said unto me, Thou art with child, and shalt give birth unto a son; neither shalt thou take wine, nor strong drink, neither shalt thou eat anything unclean: for the child shall be separated from his birth unto the day of his death.
Did I not choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to burn incense before me? did I not give unto the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire?
And all the princes of the people, and all the tribes of Israel, gathered together in the assembly of the children of God, four hundred thousand footmen, fit for war.
And they said, What shall be the trespass offering, which we shall return unto him? They answered, five golden instruments, and five of gold, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon your nobles.
And they cried unto them; and the children of Dan turned round, and said to Micah, What aileth thee, that thou hast taken up arms?
And they went round about Benjamin, and pursued after them without rest, and did not tread them down from the way of Gibeah unto the east.
and ye also know, ye also, that ye excel in the good tidings, that in the beginning of the good tidings, when I departed from Macedonia, there was no assembly with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines rose, and came and came to meet David, that David hasted, and ran to meet the Philistines.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Shimron.
And they fled from the presence of his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob; and the law of the children of Tob came round and went with him.
and this in your mind, which was in Christ Jesus,
And he said unto them, Out of the abundance came forth bread, and from the mighty came forth sweet; but they could not understand the meaning of three days.
And Deborah said to Cain, Arise; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand. Is not Jehovah gone out before thee? And she went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And Jonathan addeth to make David swear, because he loved him; for he loved him with the love of his own soul.
that ye may not be slow in heart, but take as your example those to whom God hath given their inheritance, because of their faith and their long wait.
And it came to pass, when they had gone on the journey, that they began to begin; and when they saw that they were stronger than he, they returned to his house.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went every man to his place.
And he gave again the money to his mother; and his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them to a refiner; and he made them a graven image, and a molten image, and it was in the house of Micah.
For for the sake of the work he drew nigh unto death, seeking his life, that he might fill up what lacked in your service toward me.
And the children of Israel turned again against the children of Benjamin, and smote the children of Benjamin with the edge of the sword, and all the cattle, and the cattle, and all that was therein, every city that came into their hands.
And the woman came in at the turning of the morning, and fell at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until the light.
And now know, and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his house; and he is a man of Belial, who can not speak unto him.
The abundance of the bread shall be eaten, and the hungry shall cease; and while the barren shall bear seven, and the children of children shall languish.
And David came to the two hundred men that were too tired to follow David, and whom they had left behind at the river: and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and David drew near to the people, and saluted them.
The law maketh high priests of the weak; but the word of the promise, which is according to the law, giveth to the Son, in whom all good is for ever.
And if they remember that land whence they went out, they would have opportunity to return.
But Hananiah answered and said, Nay, my lord: for I am a woman troubled, but I have not drunk wine nor strong drink: but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant fed his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and also a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
For he that is entered into his rest, the same also hath rest from his works, as God hath done from his.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and brimstone, and called the name of it, saying, Hitherto hath Jehovah helped us.
And they went into the house of Micah, and took out the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, and the molten image, and said unto them, What doest thou?
And Jesse led Shammah to pass by; and he said, Even the Lord hath not appointed himself.
And Jonathan rose up from the table, and burneth with wrath, and took no part in the feast the second day of the month, being grieved for David, because his father had put shame on him.
Only let us be guided by the same reign.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Am I to go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines, that they may not fall into their hands.
And the elders of Gilead said, Jehovah will be a witness between us, and we will do according to thy word.
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Beth Shean, and her cities, and Taanach, and her towns, and the inhabitants of Dor, and her cities, and the inhabitants of Ibleam, and her cities, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and her cities: but the Canaanites dwelt in that land.
Let destruction come upon all thine enemies, O Jehovah; but let thy lovers be as the sun that goeth forth in his strength: and for forty years the land had peace.
And Jonathan said unto him, Tomorrow is the new moon; and thou shalt be left, for thy throne shall be desolate.
And he pursued after the chariots, and the army to the chief of the nations; and all the multitude of the enemies were utterly destroyed.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
I have not sinned against thee; but thou art he that doeth evil against me: let Jehovah judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
Now therefore know, and consider what ye will do; for evil is determined against our lord, and against all his house; for he is a vain man that speaketh not unto him.
And for the candlesticks, and for the candlestick, and for the table, and for the table, and for the table, and for the table, and for the shewbread; and for the holy place.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he possessed the hill country; but he could not destroy the inhabitants of the valley; for they had many chariots armed with rods.
And from thence came out of the family of the children of Dan, out of Zorah, and out of Zorah, six hundred men armed with weapons of war.
And after she had weaned him, she carried him with her, with three calves, and three measures of flour, and a bottle of wine; and she brought him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh. And the child was as yet a very young thing.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Thou comest, and be king over us.
And he said unto her, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy prayer, which thou hast asked of him.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines had journeyed, and came near to David; and David hasted quickly to flee in the way of the army; and they came to meet the Philistines.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee, neither is there any strength like our God.
And the children of Israel and the children of Judah arose and cried, and pursued the Philistines unto Gaza, and to the gate of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines fell by the way to Calneh, even unto Gath, and to Ekron.
And I will send my son to seek the arrow; and if I say unto him, Behold, the arrow is upon this side of thee; take it up; then thou mayest come; for there is peace for thee, and no evil, by the living Jehovah.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, and fought with the Philistines.
Only walk ye yourselves worthily of the glad tidings of the Christ, that whether it come, or seeing you, or absent, I may hear of things which concern you, that ye stand fast in one spirit with one soul, working together with the faith of the glad tidings.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel: and he went out to war; and Jehovah gave Pul the king of Babylon into his hand, and he smote the Ethiopians.
and to those in Aroer, and unto the moth, and to Eshtemoa,
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel; and then, if there is no man to save us, we will come out unto thee.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Of all the things that I have spoken of thy wife, let her keep her soul.
And Saul heard the voice of Jonathan, and sware, saying, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
Neither shall they teach every man his neighbour, and every one his brother, saying, Know ye Jehovah; for they shall all know me, from the least to the greatest.
So that of one man, who was near to death, came children as the stars in heaven, or as the sand by the sea, which can not be numbered.
that he might know him, and the power of his rising, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death;
And when it was come to pass, one told his neighbour a dream, and told him what he had seen: and I dreamed a dream, and it seemed like a cake of barley, and came down into the camp of Midian; and when it came to a tent, it smote it, and smote it flat to the ground.
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they said, To bind up the son we are come up, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
In the days of Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, in the days of Jai, the highways were empty; and the wayfaring men walked by the way.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that refuseth unto me, when my son maketh a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of thee that is sorry for me, and that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as it is this day.
And he changed his way before them, and disguised themselves with their hands, and laid them in the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall upon his beard.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; and they came as a swarm of locusts, both they and their camels, and went into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass, when they had told them to Sisera the son of Abinadab, that was gone up to mount Tabor,
and turn not aside after the vain things that profit not, nor deliver, for they are vain.
Thou shalt roll them up as a garment, and they shall be changed; but thou art the same; thy years shall not fail.
And now have I begun to ask for him in God? Far be it from me: let not the king oppress his servant, against any of the house of my father; for thy servant knoweth not all this, less or more.
And they passed and went their way; and the sun went down upon them at Gibeah, which belonged to Benjamin.
Who can have mercy on the simple, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself is surrounded with infirmity.
And he ran to him, and said, Behold I, for thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And he brought him into his house, and saddled the asses; and they washed their feet, and eat and drink.
And they rose up early; and when it was about the dawning of the day, Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out from them, he and Samuel, into the street.
And he divided the three hundred men into three parts, and gave them trumpets in their hands, and empty cups, and lamps within the vessels.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died at the age of one hundred and ten years.
And he found a colt of a ass, and put out his hand, and took it, and smote a thousand men with it.
And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of a perverse woman, do I not know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath destroyed the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy neighbour that is better than thou.
And Saul returned from pursuing David, and went to meet the Philistines: therefore they called that place the Rock of the same.
With him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise always unto God, that is to say, the fruit of lips confession unto his name.
And Maachah the wife of Jonathan was given to him that was the chief man.
And the people, the princes of Gilead, said one to another, Who is he that shall fight against the children of Ammon? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And when I shall come thither, we shall lodge there, or at least in the city of Ramah.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's flock at Bethlehem.
and the blade went in after the blade, and the fat closed upon the edge, so that he could not draw the sword out of his belly; and the dust came out.
One tenth of thy seed, and of thy vineyards, and give it to his servants, and to his servants.
and now arise, thou and the people that are with thee, and lie in wait in the field.
And by faith Sarah had power to give birth, when she was old, because she believed in him that gave his word.
And he said, Gather yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Every man bring me here his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating flesh with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
by faith Abraham, being called to go into the place which he was to receive for an inheritance, and went out, not knowing where he went.
For this man I prayed; and Jehovah gave me my request which I asked him.
And it came to pass, as soon as he was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and went after the Baalim, and made Baal their god.
And they told him, saying, Behold, the people have sinned against Jehovah, and they eat the flesh with the blood. And he said, Thou hast dealt treacherously with thee, and thou hast made a great stone unto me this day.
And David ran and stood over the Philistines, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it: and when the Philistines saw that their mighty men were dead, they fled.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies round about against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he made himself afraid.
And the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel; and they lifted up their voice, and wept.
The man of thine handmaid, whom I have not cut off from mine altar, shall eat thine eyes, and mourn thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of his old age.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went to slay one another.
And thus shall ye say, Long life! Peace be unto thee, and peace be unto thy house; and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and an ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to Jehovah's house at Shiloh: and the child was young.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in a forest.
to the whole house of the guard, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in Christ:
And they came before the men of Gibeah, ten thousand of the best men in all Israel; and the battle was worse, and the children of Benjamin did not know that evil was come upon them.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them up into the hand of Midian seven years.
Now therefore what is under thine hand? give me five loaves of bread in mine hand, or what is there present.
Be not carried away by divers things, and strange law; for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by meats, by which they that partake may not profit.
who shall change our vile bodies, that it may be made as unto his glory, according to the working wherewith he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
having the same contention which ye have seen in me, and now hear of me.
And the sons of Taanach, and the children of Eshtemoa, the children of Eshtemoa.
For if we sin after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more a sacrifice for sins;
And Ehud stretched forth his left hand, and took the sword from off his right shoulder, and smote it into his belly.
And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou mayest serve thee; for God is with thee.
For in that he himself suffered being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And he made the tribe of Benjamin come near by families, and the family of the Machirites; and Saul, the son of Kish, was taken: but when they sought him, he was not able to be seen.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I will sit with the king to eat; and thou shalt send me away, that I may hide myself in the field until the third even.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's flock at Bethlehem.
And it shall come to pass in the morning, that thou shalt rise up, and smite the city; and behold, he and the people that are with him come out unto thee, and thou shalt do according to that which is due.
and thou hast called for Jesse in the sacrifice, and I cause thee to know what thou doest; and thou hast anointed unto me him of whom I speak unto thee.
And it came to pass when they came in, that he saw Eliab, and said, Surely before Jehovah his anointed.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us come near one of these places; let us lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And they also of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have commanded to take a tenth of the people according to the law, that is of their brethren, even though these are come out of the loins of Abraham.
And it came to pass after a while, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and put thy finger upon thy mouth, and come with us, that we may have thee a father, and a priest: what is it better for thee to be a priest in the house of one man, or in the tribe of Israel?
And they cried unto Jehovah, who lifted them up a saviour, the son of Gera, the son of Shimeah, who used the left hand as well. And the children of Israel sent presents unto Eglon unto Eglon.
Lest there be any whoremonger, or profane man, as Esau, who for one piece of meat sold his birthright.
Wherefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And it came to pass, at that time, the Philistines came together to fight against Israel; and the children of Israel went out to battle against the Philistines, and took up their position at the side of the valley; and the Philistines set themselves in Aphek.
And he went through the wilderness, and all the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon; and they came not in the border of Moab, for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And the people, when they saw it, praised their god, and said the same, Our god hath delivered our adversary into our bands, who smote our country, and slew very many.
who is the glory of his glory, and the fashion of his substance, and maketh all things by the word of his power, making atonement for sins, sitteth upon the right hand of the glory on high.
And all the trees said to the thorns, Come thou, and reign over us.
Thy servant hath smitten the lion and the bear; and the uncircumcised shall be as one of them, because he hath defied the counsel of the living God.
And he said unto his men, Far be it from me, O Jehovah: I do not do this thing to my lord, to the anointed of Jehovah, to put out my hand against him, for he is anointed Jehovah.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech.
Now therefore stand, that I may plead with you before Jehovah for all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he hath done unto you and to your fathers.
that he might know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death;
Do all things without murmuring and reasoning.
For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write unto you the same things, not to me, and to me, and to you.
And he that sweareth he that they should not enter into his rest, But unto them that would not hear?
For without faith it is impossible to be well-pleasing unto him; for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a reward of them that seek him.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak unto her heart, to bring her back, and his young man with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into the house of her father; and the father of the young woman saw him, and rejoiced to meet him.
And David said unto him, Can thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop.
And all the taskmasters of Shechem were gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and came and cause Abimelech to reign for king in the oak of the camp which was in Shechem.
and to a mediator of a new covenant, Jesus, and unto blood, speaking better things than that of Abel.
And they fell upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people ate them with the blood.
And he returned from the stone which was by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret burden unto thee, O king. And the king said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him left him.
And he smote them from Aroer, until thou comest to Minnith, even twenty cities, and unto the valley of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
Yea, my sons, the reward which is given to me, which the Lord's hosts is not good.
He shall take thy daughters for a perfume, and for a vesture, and for the baker;
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the lords of Shechem; and he dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
but come to mount Zion, and to the city of living God, and to Jerusalem, and to ten thousand of angels,
For some indeed preacheth Christ out of envy and strife, and some also out of good.
And Samuel said, Wherefore do thou inquire of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
And all the people rose up as one man, and said, None of us shall go to his tent, nor go to his house.
and had taken the women captives that were in it, both small and great; and they had not killed any man, but carried them with them, and went on their way.
that I might know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death;
that God was able to raise him up from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
Take heed to them, and submit yourselves unto them; for they keep the souls of your souls, as those that shall give account, that they may do this with joy, and not with sighing; for that is not profitable for you.
And Jehovah looked after Hananiah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters; and the child Samuel grew up with Jehovah.
And this we will do, if God suffer.
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
Be anxious for nothing; but in all things prayer and supplication, let your supplication be made known unto God.
And they stood in his place round about the camp; and all the people fled; and they cried, and they fled.
And the wall of Jericho fell down, and went round about them seven days.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I should in all know that evil was determined by my father to come upon thee, should I not tell thee?
And Jair, the son of Ammiel, reigned over Israel for two and twenty years.
And when Baal-Hanan the son of Bedad and his brethren came, they passed over into Shechem; and the princes of Shechem gave him confidence.
And David was wise in all his ways: and Jehovah was with him.
And they went up into the city; and when they had come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, to go up to the high place.
And David said unto him, Whom art thou? And where art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, for three days I fell sick.
saying unto the thorn-tree, If in truth thou shalt anoint me king over thee, then come and take refuge in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and consume the cedars of Lebanon.
For he that is sanctified and sanctified all, for which cause he not be ashamed to call them brethren,
Again I will trust in him. And again, behold, here am I with the children whom God hath given me.
And all Israel, when they saw the man, fled from his face, fearing him exceedingly.
Yea, and if I be made a sacrifice unto the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and bless you all.
And he said unto her, Give me to drink, I pray thee, a little water, for I thirst. And she opened the bottle of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him.
and thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, and the best, shall he take, and give to his servants.
And all the people rose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go unto his tent, neither shall we any of us return into his house.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
and that there be no evil in the liver, nor any man that feareth God, as Esau, who let his birthright go for a dish.
And when she was old, she heard all that his sons were doing unto all Israel, and that they lay with the women that ministered at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel into the wilderness; but the battle followed after them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of it.
And it came to pass, when David perceived that Saul was secretly prepared against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, and lay wait in the vineyards;
For men truly swear by the greater; and a solemn oath is unto them an end of all strife.
And Jonathan lifted up his hand to his servant, and said unto him, Go, bring them to the city.
For it is not that the blood of the bulls and the goats shall take away sins.
And the Lord destroyeth all the chariots, and all the chariots, and all the host, by the mouth of the sword, before the sword; and Sisera came down from the chariot, and fled upon his feet.
And it came to pass, when thou comest to the Jordan, that he came into the Jordan, with the three hundred men with him, who were with him, and pursued him.
And David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off, a great company between them.
And it came to pass, that day after day she gave him no peace, for ever asked him until his soul was troubled.
And when Saul saw David coming out to meet the Philistines, he said unto Abner the head of the camp, Whose son this is the son of Abner? And Abner said, Thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and lay in wait in the field; and he looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
And they passed thence to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the carcase of them, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary, shall be burned up without the camp.
Now there was no one in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews smite them with swords or spears.
And after that David came forth out of the rock, and wept after Saul, saying, My lord the king: and when Saul looked back, David fell upon his face, and glorified him.
and call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will tell thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And Saul tarried in the uttermost parts of Gibeah, under a pomegranate; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
And when he had finished speaking unto Saul, the soul of Jonathan was put to the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
and in no fear of the adversaries, who are for them a sign of destruction, but unto you of salvation, and of God.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go after his servant? what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And in the morning, when the wine was gone, the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal told him all these things; and all the heart went out of him, and he became as stone.
And when she saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he hath told me all his heart. And the princes of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought up the money in their hand.
And they fled from his brethren, and they dwelt in the land of Tob; and there was a number of Belial, and they went out with him in his hand.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; for we have both sworn in Jehovah's name, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose, and went, and Jonathan went into the city.
So they took away the graven image, and the ephod, and the idols, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What doest ye?
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Remember those that are in bonds, as bound with them; and those that suffer evil, as being yourselves in the body.
And they said, Thou hast not oppressed us, neither hast thou beaten us, nor taken from the hand of any one.
Then said he unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man mad: wherefore then have ye brought him to me?
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: for ye have done evil, and be not turned away from Jehovah; be ye his servants with all your heart.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, and have walked in the way by which Jehovah sent me; and I have brought down the king of Amalek with Agag, and Amalek I have slain.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not upon his face, nor on the height of his stature: for I have cast him off, and I judge not according to the appearance of man: for man seeth the things that appear, but Jehovah seeth the heart.
But he that hath no genealogy from them doeth Abraham, and blessed him that sweareth.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned, and do thou unto us whatever pleaseth thee: save us this time.
nor that he may offer himself many times, even as the high priest shall enter into the holy places every year with blood of men;
And God turned back the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father, to slay his seventy brethren.
In those days there was no king in Israel; And every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Which of us shall go up against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they got up early in the morning, and rose up to depart. And the damsel's father said unto his daughter-in-law, Make thy heart a piece of bread, and afterward go thy way.
And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Son of a perverse woman: have I not known that thou art reproved the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of thy mother?
And they ran and fetched him thence; and he stood in the midst of the people, and he was above all the people from the shoulders and upward.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely be put to death, and to Ahimelech, and to all thy father's house.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the love which ye have shown to his name, serving the saints, and serving.
But if ye be without warning, of which all are made partakers, then are ye taking hold of, and not sons.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and gathered after him; and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrow hath passed past thee: then go thou on thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And it came to pass, that smote the seventy sons of Jerubbesheth, and for their blood, that they might come to Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, who helped him to slay his brethren.
They that were full are offered themselves for bread, and they that were in need are at rest: yea, she that had no child become the mother of seven; and she that had a house is wasted with sorrow.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For the priesthood is changed, and there taketh place a change of law also.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah: for ye have mercy on me.
And the children of Israel send men out of all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What aileth you?
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, saying,
And they said unto the parable, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
And Abigail arose, and rode on the ass, and five of her maidens that ministered to her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And Saul cast his spear upon him to slay him: and Jonathan knew that his father had conspired against David.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and the city they sent into fire.
But Samuel was not pleased when they said unto him, Give us a king to be our judge. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
For this cause let us have a strong desire to come into that place, and let no man follow the example of them that have rebelled against God.
And his servant said unto him, Whatever is in thine heart: behold, I am with thee in all thy heart.
by faith Moses, when he was grown up, denied himself to be the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on mount Gilboa.
Be thou here with me, and fear not; For he that fashioneth my life hath sought thy life: But with me thou shalt be saved.
And David said unto the king, If I have found favor in thine eyes, let them give me a place in one of the cities that I may dwell there: why should thy servant dwell in the king's city with thee?
And the people, the men of Israel, took courage, and set up the battle in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
Take heed to thyself, that thou mayest not deny him that saith: for if they would not escape, if they would not receive him, much less shall we escape, if we forsake him that reproveth him.
And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, turn aside, go down from the midst of Amalek, lest I consume thee with it, and thou didst kindness with all the children of Israel, in their going up out of Egypt: and the Kenites shall depart from the midst of Amalek.
To whom hath he sworn, that they should not come into his rest? Was it not unto them that rebel against him?
If thus he say, Good, peace for thy servant; and if it displease him, know that the evil hath been determined by him.
And the children of Zebulun called Kedesh and Naphtali; and they went up behind him, even ten thousand; and Rebekah went up with him.
From thence they passed into mount Ephraim; And when they came to the house of Michmas,
Take heed to the dogs, beware of evil men, beware of the meekness.
For he put his life in hand, and smote the Philistines; and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou didst see, and didst rejoice: wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, and slay David without cause?
And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words, that she urged him, that his soul was vexed unto death.
And there were found of Benjamin five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Geba.
And they sat themselves, and drink, and drink, and the damsel's father said unto the man, If it is thy pleasure, take thy rest here this night, and let thy heart be glad.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth, and fastened his body unto the wall of Bethshan.
And it came to pass from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years; and all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
For we have laid no rest, but our search are for him that is to come.
And David said unto him, Whom art thou? and where comest thou? And where goest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of an Amalekite, and my master left me, because I was sick three days ago.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray unto Jehovah thy God for thy servants, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins the wickedness of our fathers.
So they went quickly, and made him come out; and when he took his place among the people, he was greater than all the people.
And he made a ephod from them, and put it in the city of his city; and all Israel went after it, and was a lie to Jehovah; and it became a cause of sin upon his house.
Now, behold, the king walketh before thee; I am old and gray; behold, my sons are with thee: I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
They have compassed the children of Benjamin; they have pursued them with prosperity, they have trodden them down till at Gibeah, at the east.
They shall come to their end; But thou art for ever; They shall be old as a garment.
And I will shoot three arrows upon the sides of it, As I have shot at a mark.
In like manner also ye rejoice, and rejoice with me.
As saith the parable of the elders, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked; But my hand shall not be upon thee.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hast hated iniquity; Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with oil of joy above thy fellows.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: make us a king to judge us, as all the nations.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah delighted in the burnt offerings and sacrifices, that he may hear the voice of Jehovah? Behold, he that heareth than sacrifice is better than the fat of rams.
And Adam said unto the angel of the Lord, I pray thee, let us delay thee, until we have prepared a young goat for thee.
Go therefore, and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that is his; thou shalt not spare him, but kill man and woman, and the child and the suckling, and the camel and the ass.
And they that were before they fled, turned their faces against them; and the children of Benjamin turned their backs.
And he said unto her, Give me a little water to drink, for I thirst. And she opened the bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And he took his staff in his hand, and took for himself five smooth stones out of the midst of the valley, and he put them in the bag of his shepherd in the bag; and with his mouth he drew near to the Philistines.
And it came to pass, when David was at Nob, unto Abimelech the priest, and Abimelech was full of fear at the presence of David, and said unto him, Why art thou thyself by thyself, having no man with thee?
And he went up, and told his father and mother, and said, I saw a woman in Timnah from the daughters of the Philistines: therefore take her for me as a wife.
And he said unto his young, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot: the lad ran, and he shot the arrow beyond him.
He also had great brass upon his feet, And a spear of brass between his shoulders.
that I may try Israel through them, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah, and walk in it, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And the people came to the house of God, and abode there before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept sore.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Malchishua, and the names of his two daughters: the name of Michal the first-born, and the name of the younger Michal.
in the same way, that he that made a good work in you shall finish it until the day of Christ Jesus.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in: for unto that day they received not their inheritance among the tribes.
And it came to pass one day, that he was lying in his place, and now his eyes became weak, so that he could not see.
And from thence they went to the inhabitants of Debir; and the name of Debir was Kirjathsepher.
And he said unto her, Give me a little water to drink: for I thirst. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And man took the kid of the goats, and the present, and offered upon the rock to Jehovah; and he did marvellously; and the man looked upon, and his wife looked on.
and thou shalt see an oppressor in my habitation, in all the good that shall be done unto Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
( Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in the wilderness, and in the mountains, and in holes, and in holes of the earth.
Let us make haste to enter into that place, lest any man fall into the same way of unbelief.
And the Lord confused Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before a man; but Sisera left his chariot, and fled from his feet.
And David took all that Amalek had taken; and he took away his two wives.
and when thou comest into the city, thou shalt find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice; and afterwards they that are bidden shall eat: and now go up; for at this time ye shall find him.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a tree from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me, make haste, and do as I have done.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered up thine enemy into thine hand this day: now therefore, I pray thee, let me smite him with the spear upon the earth, and I will not smite him the second time.
And the thing was displeasing to Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
who is faithful to him that made him, as Moses in all his house.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went forth into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
And the youth went, and David was risen from Beer-sheba, and fell upon his face to the earth, and bowed himself three times; and they kissed one another, and they wept one with another, till David was magnified.
And Samuel grew up, and Jehovah was with him, and did not let any of his words go forth.
And he numbered them together with the children of Israel three hundred thousand; and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
And Jesse took five cakes of bread, and a skin of wine, and a young goat, and sent them to Saul by David.
And Zebulun made not the inhabitants of the land, nor the inhabitants of the land: but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and made them work.
And Saul drew the spear, and said, I have smitten by David, even through the wall. And David turned round his face.
And Jonathan said unto David, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee. Now now, I pray thee, take care of thyself in the morning, and dwell in a secret place, and hide thyself.
And David took the spear, and the water of water upon Saul's neck, and they went away, and there was none seeing, and there was none seeing; for they were all sleeping; for a deep sleep Jehovah fell upon them.
so that the violence done unto the seventy brethren of Abimelech should be avenged, and their blood to Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the princes of Shechem, who helped to slay his brethren.
Behold, as thy life was known unto this day in my sight, so let my soul be feared in Jehovah's eyes, and let him deliver me out of all adversity.
And David said, Hereby thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And David said unto David, Wherefore will I make thee keeper of my people for ever?
So David arose, and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and gave them to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And he said unto him, Lord, how shall I save Israel? Behold, my house is the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
For the tabernacle was set up; the first, in which both the candlestick and the table, and the place of the bread, which is called holy;
For he spake in a certain place the seventh day; and God rested the seventh day out of all his works.
And he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange land, dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, and the sons of Jacob with the same word.
For all the days that the son of Jesse liveth on the ground thou art not established, thou and thy kingdom; and now send and bring him unto me, for he a son of death.
And when the words were heard which David spake, they told them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head; and he was clothed with a coat of mail with scales; and the weight of his coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
Zebulun is a people whose way is to be slain, To death, and to Naphtali in the high places of the field.
Some also for envy and strife, but some also for good, preach the Christ.
And Caleb went against the Canaanites of Hebron; and the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba, and thence he put thence from thence thence, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And he waited seven days according to the appointed time of Samuel, but did not come to Gilgal; and the people were to depart from him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for he cometh up to defy Israel; and the man that smiteth him, he will prosper with great riches, and shall give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And they took captive the women that were in it, from the youngest to the first; and they slew no man, but carried them away, and went on their way.
And to speak, through Abraham even to Levi, who is receiving tithes, hath given a tenth of the tithe;
And he said unto him, Deal with me, my lord: how shall I deliver Israel? Behold, my family is the least of Manasseh, and I am the younger in my father's house.
And Jehovah left these nations, so as not to drive them out, neither gave them into the hand of Joshua.
And Saul was in the thick bands, and the archers spotted him; and he was wounded by the archers.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that declareth me, that my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of thee that is sorry for me, and hath declared unto me that my son hath provoked me to lie in wait, as at this day.
and the gold, and the mouse, even the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for the five princes, even the fortified city, even unto the place of the villages, even unto the great pasture which they laid the ark of Jehovah unto this day in the field of Joshua the Gittite.
And they went up into the city; and when they entered into the city, Samuel came face to face with them unto the high place.
and the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock.
And the mighty men ceased, and did not appear in Israel, until I, Rebekah, rose up; and I rose up as a mother in Israel.
yet there is straw and provender for our asses; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man that is with thy servants; there is no pleasure in any thing.
And Shammah the son called unto Jehovah, and said, Lord Jehovah, remember me, and strengthen me, I pray thee, even this once God, that I may be avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.
And Jehovah said unto him, The people that are with thee are many, and Midian shall not be delivered into their hands; lest Israel glory against me, and say, I was delivered by my own strength.
And it came to pass, that every one that saw hath said, There hath not been found: there hath not been seen like this, from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt until this day: put your upon it, take counsel, and speak.
There was no man in all that brought him help, because they dwelt afar from Sidon, neither had any people, nor any business with any man: and the city was in the land of Rehob; and they built it, and dwelt therein.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the time, while David was in the stronghold.
So the young men returned, and returned, and told him all these words.
And David said, Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will surely smite him; neither shall his day come to die, lest he go into battle and perish.
In every place whither they went out, the hand of Jehovah was upon them for evil, as Jehovah spake; and as Jehovah hath sworn to them, and they are troubled.
and thou shalt see, my father, and see the hem of thy garment in my hand: for I have taken off the hem of thy garment, and hast not put thee to death; and I have done thee no evil, and I have done thee no wrong, though thou art waiting for my life.
And Jair died, and was buried in the earth.
And behold, the first covenant had the law of God, and the holy place.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer, and all his men that same day.
And the sixth of them judged Israel six years; and the Hushathite of Gilead died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
not giving up our calling, but to keep one another strong in faith; for ye see the day coming nigh.
and not in fear of those that strive against them; for it is a sign of destruction, and of salvation, and of God.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and spake unto them in the ears of Jehovah.
And there was a war again; and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger, and did not eat bread the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, because his father had oppressed him.
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and took their cattle, and slew them with a great slaughter. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Now therefore let it be given out unto the people that tremble with fear, to depart from mount Perazim; and twenty thousand of the people went, and were yet ten thousand.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, and arise from sleep; and he said in his heart, I will go out as I did before, and I will shake myself, and not know that Jehovah was departed from him.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, as the flame went up from off the altar toward heaven, that the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar; and Adam and his wife looked upon, and fell upon their faces to the ground.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn over Saul? I have despised him king over Israel: fill up thy horn with oil, and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the son of Bethlehem; for I have chosen a king for myself among his sons.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly, and hast not kept the commandments of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: and if thou hadst not done thus, Jehovah would have set thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And the tabernacle, which is called the holy place, was the tabernacle.
Therefore, brethren, having confidence in the entrance into the holy places, in the blood of Jesus,
Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
But strong food is for the perfect: for they that are of the way have thought wisely of good and evil.
And the son of Barachel said unto her, If thou bind me up with seven trees, which are not dried up, I will be like all men.
And in the morning Samuel said unto Saul on the roof, Arise, and I will send thee away: and he rose up, and he and Samuel went out.
And the border of the one was on the north side against Michmash, and the south was toward Gibeah.
And he said unto his young man, Come, and let us draw near to one of the places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And they said, We will give them most willingly; and they shall spread a garment upon the ground, and cast upon it the heads of the spoil.
And he took captive a young man of the people of Succoth; and he inquired of them, and the number of the men of Succoth, and of the men, seventy thousand men.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thine hand, that thou mayest do unto him as it pleaseth thee. Then David arose, and cut off the hem of Saul's garment secretly.
Let the brotherly love continue.
And Jonathan the son of Saul went unto David in the stronghold, and strengthened his hands in God.
And the Carmelite answered David's servants, and said, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? this day are many servants breaking away from before their masters.
For he that maketh holy and those that are sanctified are all of one household; and for this reason it is no shame for him to give them the name of brethren.
And Saul chose him three thousand men out of Israel, and there were with Saul two thousand in Michmash, and in mount Bethel, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the rest of the people sent every man unto his tent.
And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed, with a hairy head of goats' hair for his sake.
Thus the Christ hath not glorified himself to be made a high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, I have this day begotten thee.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints which are in Christ Jesus in Philippi, with the edifying and ministers of the assembly:
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we fear here in Judah; how much more shall we go to Keilah against the army of the Philistines?
And David trusted David, saying, He hath made himself odious among his people Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
But as many as are perfect, let us be thus minded; and if ye are any otherwise minded, this also God shall reveal unto you.
and thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry until I come unto thee, and show thee what thou shalt do.
looking diligently upon, that any man may fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness come up to wrath, and through this many may be defiled.
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I voice my father about this time to-morrow, the next day, and behold, there is a good thing toward David; and I will not send unto thee, and thou shalt bear thee of it.
And he kept the passover with faith, and the blood of the blood; and he that smote the firstborn, could not touch them.
But the righteous shall live by faith; and if he return, my soul delighteth not in him.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah by Ramah.
And he said unto them, Thus hath he done to me; and he hath hired me, and I am his priest.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
And he came to Ramah in Ramah, and the Spirit of God came upon him; and he continued prophesying, and came to Ramah.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, Tomorrow the sun is hot, and thou shalt be saved. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh, and they rejoiced.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what shall thy father answer thee roughly?
By faith Abel made a good oblation unto God than Cain; and he testified by it by the righteousness of God; and his voice came to us, though he was dead.
Then said David, O Jehovah God of Israel, thy servant hath heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the men of Jabesh said, Tomorrow we will come out unto thee, and thou shalt do unto us what seemeth good to thee.
And after ten days Jehovah smote the Carmelite, and he died.
And when he was come to a troop, the Philistines cried against him; and the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and the cords that were upon his hands were as flax that was burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took thence a stone, and foul it, and smote the Philistines in his forehead, that the stone stuck into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
And all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the children of the east, gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other Phanuel; and Penuel had no children.
And the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armor made, was about twenty men, as it were an half part of the land, which a yoke of oxen might plow.
And the men did so; and they took two oxen, and bound them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And he asked for water, and gave him milk; and she brought forth butter in the midst of it.
And David sent out officers, and told them that Saul was certainly coming.
And he brought the present unto Eglon unto Eglon; and it was very fat.
And let it be, when these signs have come unto thee, that ye do that which is right for the occasion; for God is with you.
Now therefore stand, that I may reason with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he did unto you and to your fathers.
And it came to pass when he had finished the burnt-offering, that, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, to bless him.
And his father went down to the woman, and Jehiel the son maketh a feast: for so the young men did.
And it came to pass, when Sisera went after Sisera, that came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest. And he came to her; and, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the tent peg was in his temples.
And she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and Jonathan the son. And he awoke from his sleep, and said, I will go forth as one time, and I will shake myself; but he knew not that Jehovah had left him.
Behold, the king hath chosen thee; Jehovah hath anointed thee.
And she brought it near before Saul, and before his servants, and they ate; and they rose up, and went away that night.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he rose up against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And it came to pass on their way to the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Give thy servant orders to go before us, that he went on, but thou hast kept here, that I may give thee the word of God.
And the children of Israel sent unto all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this thing that is done among you?
And the six hundred men were girded with their weapons of war, which of the children of Dan stood at the door of the gate.
And David recovered all the Amalekites, and took away his two wives.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he selleth them into the hand of Shushan, king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served for war eight years.
I thank my God for all my remembrance;
And Japhlet went together with all the men of Gilead, and made war against Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem, and he put his weapons in his tent.
And it came to pass, when Sisera came after after Sisera, that he came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest; and he cometh in unto her; and, behold, Sisera is fallen, and the tents are dead, and the nail in his temples.
And he shewed them the entrance of the city; and they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man and all his house go.
And the hoofs of the hoofs of war were broken by the noise of the trumpet.
And the servants of God said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him, saying, Saul hath smitten his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And there shall be for the waste places, and for the couplings, and for the couplings, and for the axes, and for the axes, and for the staves.
And the children of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give of his daughters to the children of Benjamin.
And the children of Dan sent out five of their brethren out of their number, and the men of valor, and the children of Zorah, and the inhabitants of the land, to spy out the land, and to search it. And they said unto them, Go and search the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which is good to thee, and tarry until thou weary him; and I pray that Jehovah may fulfill his word. And the woman abode at home, and gave her the nurse, until she was weaned.
For consider him that endured such enmity with sinners, that ye may not faint in your souls, and give up.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him out of the hill-country, and he was before them.
Now Gilead had a wife of whom he had sons: and after they had grown up, they cast out proverbs, saying, Thou canst not inherit the house of our father, because thou art born of another mother.
and see, if it go up by the way of his own sea to Beth Shemesh, then he hath done us great evil: but if not, then shall we know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a lot that befell us.
and he said unto me, Behold, thou art with child, and bare a son, and drink not wine and strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing: for a Nazarite to God is the child of the womb till the day of his death.
And he sprinkled with blood the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service.
And the glory of Israel shall not be broken, nor repented; for he is not a man that repenteth.
And they gathered themselves together to Mizpah; and they drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah; and they fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel at Mizpah.
And her husband followed her, willing to be reconciled to her, and to speak kindly unto her, and to bring her back with him, and with him a servant and two asses; and she received him, and brought him into her father's house. And when his father had heard this, and had seen him, he met him with joy.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the open place; and the old man said, Whither goest thou? And where comest thou?
but chose to be afflicted with the saints, than to have the pleasure of sin for a time;
And he said unto her, What is his appearance? And she said, An old man cometh up, and he is bound in a garment. And Saul knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed himself with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, which Abimelech made for vain and for light, who followed him.
And the men of Israel saw that they were troubled, that the people were oppressed; and the people hid themselves in the caves, and in the thick places, and in the rocks, and in the high places, and in their holes.
And the children of Benjamin did not know that the children of Israel came up to Mizpah; and the Levite, the husband of the woman, that was slain, said, How much great is so great!
Behold, thine eyes have seen that Jehovah hath given thee this day into my hand in the cave; and they have told me to kill thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And he returned from the battle before the sun.
because it was the right for him, for whom all things were, by whom all things were, by guiding his sons to glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through pain.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together at Aphek; and Israel encamped at the fountain of Jezreel.
And Jesse begat seven of his sons before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And David said to Nathan, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
and now, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withheld thee from coming with blood, and with thine own hand, and from vengeance with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord be as the wife of Nabal.
Let us fear therefore, lest haply any one of you be judged of a promise that is come into his rest.
which he is able to save for ever those who come to God by him: always alive to make intercession for us.
And before they make perfume with the fat, the priest's servant shall come in, and say unto the man that is sacrificed, Give flesh to the priest; and he shall not take of thee flesh boiled, but raw.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house; and the child was the servant of Jehovah under the hand of Heli the priest.
And Manasseh took not away the land of the people of Beth Shean, and of the villages, and of Taanach, and of the inhabitants thereof, and of the people of Dor, and of the people thereof, and of the people of Ibleam, and of the inhabitants thereof, and of the people of Megiddo, and of the inhabitants thereof, and of the people of Megiddo, and of the inhabitants thereof, and of the inhabitants of Megiddo, and of the inhabitants thereof.
And it came to pass in Israel, that a man went to inquire of God, saying, Come, let us go up to the prophet. For the prophet of this day was called a prophet.
He shall keep the feet of his saints; But the wicked shall be destroyed in the darkness; For a man shall not prevail by his power.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood by him, Hear now, ye of Benjamin: Shall the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards? shall he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
being filled with the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God.
In burnt-offering and sacrifices thou hast no pleasure;
So that all that fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword: all these were valiant men.
Forty years have I sinned against this generation, And I said, They are always estranged in heart, And they know not my ways;
But God rent the hollow place, and water came out of it; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: therefore the name of his name was Helkath, which is to this day.
And when the Philistines saw, and saw David, he despised him; for he was a youth, and ruddy, and beside a beautiful countenance.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan said unto him, I have eaten a little honey with the edge of the staff which was in my hand, and behold, I die.
and there is no deliverer, for it is far from Sidon; and they have no word with man, and it is in the valley which is by Beth Rehob; and they build the city, and dwell therein.
And they called the name of that place to Jehovah, and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
Behold, ye all sons of Israel, give unto you a word and counsel.
Neither by the blood of the goats and the calves, but by his own blood he entered into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us.
And David arose, and fled that day from before Saul, and went to Elasah the king of Gath.
lest any man be a fornicator, or a profane man, as Esau, who sold for a piece of bread, sold his birthright;
and he changeth his ways before their eyes, and maketh himself mad in their hand, and they write upon the doors of the gate, and let down his face unto his beard.
And there was a man in Maon, whose substance was in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
and they took the women captive, that were therein; they slew not any, neither great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Gittite.
And David heard in the wilderness, that he did shear his sheep.
For ye came not nigh to the mountain, and was burned with fire, and to darkness, and darkness, and tempest,
And she said unto him, How dost thou say thou lovest me, when thy mind is not with me? thou hast told me falsehood these three times, and wouldest not tell me where thy great strength lieth.
But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of the pit, that his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why shall he be slain? what hath he done?
And they called unto the children of Dan, who turned about to face them; and they said unto Micah, What aileth thee that thou hast gathered together?
And the five men that went to search the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood in the entering of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
And the children of Hobab the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up with the children of Judah out of the city of the field into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south side of the country of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And when they saw him, they took thirty men, and they were with him.
And Saul said, Hear now now, son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
And Saul fell at once on the earth, and was sore afraid at the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; thy way is before Jehovah.
For much more Jesus hath become the guarantee of a good covenant.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that smiteth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach of Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
who is the glory of his glory, and the fashion of his stature, to fulfil all things by the word of power; and when he had made purification for sins through him, he sat down at the right hand of the king on high,
And Saul said, Blessed thou by Jehovah; for thou hast had mercy on me.
in order to suffer affliction with the saints, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season;
And she was ninety and ninety years old: and his eyes were set, and he could not see.
and as it is laid up for men to die, and according to this judgment,
And he said unto them, What ye shall see me do, that I may go into one part of the camp, and do ye as I do.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no bread under mine hand, but there is holy bread: if the young men have kept themselves at least of women.
And he dealt boldly, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that spoiled it.
and Jesse begat seven sons of his sons before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Art thou all here? And he said, There is yet the youngest. Behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and get him: for we will not sit down till he cometh hither.
And Jehovah said unto him, The people are yet yet many, bring them down unto the water, and I will try them for thee there; and it shall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
Thus will we do unto Gibeah: We will go up against her by lot.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel out of the Midianites: have not I sent thee?
and to those that were in Sepharad, and to the cities of Jerahmeel, and to the cities of the Kenites,
And she said, Oh my lord, thy soul liveth, my lord: I am the woman that stood by thee to pray unto Jehovah.
And he said unto her, If they only bind me with new cords, wherewith no work is done, then shall I be weak, and be like another man.
And Michal the daughter of Saul was in love with David: and Saul spake of it and was glad.
As for the asses which are lost unto thee this day three days, put not thine heart unto them, for they are found, and to whom all the desire of Israel? is it not unto thee, and to all thy father's house?
And the children of Israel asked Jehovah, and there was the ark of the covenant of God in those days.
And they were near Jebus, and the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And Micah said, Now I know that Jehovah doeth good unto me: for the Levites shall be unto me for a priest.
And it came to pass, when he returned into the pieces of silver to his mother, that his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave it to the smith, and made it a molten image; and it was in the house of Micah.
For unto us was the glad tidings preached, as well as unto them; but the word was not profitable unto them, but they were not mingled with faith in them that heard it.
So the children of Ammon called together, and encamped in Gilead; and the children of Israel gathered together, and encamped in Mizpah.
who lacked not, as the high priests, to offer sacrifices every day, first for his own sin, and for the sins of the people: for he did this once for all, when he offered up.
And Heber the Jebusite was separated from the Kenites, from the children of Hobab the father-in-law of Moses: and he pitched camp in Elth, which is near Kedesh.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and said, What do we do unto the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Unto Gath let the ark of the God of Israel be brought round. And they brought the ark of the God of Israel round about.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my new wine, which makest God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
Therefore arise ye in the morning, thou, and the servants of thy lord, who came with thee; and when ye are up before day, and it begin to be light, go on your way.
And it shall come to pass, that every man that is left in thy house shall come and worship him for a piece of silver and a cake of bread, and shall say, I pray thee, put me into one of the priests' posts, that I may eat bread bread.
And they turned aside, and came to the house of the Levites, the house of Micah, and saluted him.
As for the same contention which ye have seen in me, and now hear ye to be in me.
But he that was not numbered among them, he took the tenth part of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promise.
and David was the youngest; and the three elder followed after him.
So they sent and gathered together all the rulers of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel away, and let it go again to its own place, that it may not kill us and our people. For there was a confusion in all the city, and the hand of God was very heavy.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies; and he put trumpets and empty vessels in all the hands of all the people, with torches within the vessels.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
And he called to the young man that bore his weapons, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and thou hast put me to death, lest they say of me, A woman slew him. And his young man pierced him, and he died.
And it came to pass at the end of two months that she returned unto her father, and he did unto her his vow which he sware, and she knew not a man: and it is a statute in Israel.
And Saul called for the people, and numbered them in bands, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And what shall we do for women? for we have sworn by Jehovah, that we will not give them our daughters for wives.
And he said unto him, Alas, my lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then hath all this befallen us? and where are all his marvellous works which our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up out of Egypt? But now Jehovah hath cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
And Ehud stretched forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right shoulder, and cast it into his belly.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter Michal shall I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites:
And it came to pass, that he rose early on the morrow, and thrust the wool together, and lay the dew from the fleece, a vessel full of water.
Then was he called David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou hast been righteous, and thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the multitude, is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee from the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: but, behold, the nobles do not favour thee.
And Hananiah answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a faint spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And it came to pass after this, that he was filled with water, and cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast delivered this great salvation by the hand of thy servant, and I have no need of water; and I will be delivered into the hands of this people that are uncircumcised.
and in Hormah, and in the sea, and in Rithmah,
And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and they died.
Wherefore I have given him unto Jehovah: for he is Jehovah's; and he shall serve there.
And they went after the chariots and after the camp, to the end of the nations; and all the tents of Sisera fell by the mouth of the sword; there was not left even one.
After the death of Joshua the children of Israel consulted Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up before us against the Canaanites, and shall be the prince of the war?
For the rest, my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are, whatsoever things are lawful, whatsoever things are holy, what things are holy, what things are excellent, if there is any profit, if there is any glory, and there is any praise, give thought to these things.
And he rose early in the morning on the fifth day, but the father's father said, Refresh thy heart, I pray thee; and they tarried until the ninth day, and they ate both of them.
And she vowed a vow, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt see the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and not forget thy servant, but give thy servant a lad, then will I give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and no razor shall come upon his head.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, brethren, and observe those that walk in this way, even as ye have us an example.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of the children of Benjamin that day five thousand and five hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the dead, and found Saul and his three sons lying on mount Gilboa.
And they went up into the city; and as they came into the midst of the city, behold, Samuel went out unto them, to go up to the high place.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send you unto you shortly, that I also may be comforted, when I know your things.
And Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land; see, I pray thee, that mine eye is white, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
And they ran and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was above all the people from his shoulders and upward.
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? and what hath he done?
And Saul sent messengers again to David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
And she conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel; for she said, I have called him from Jehovah.
And he put in the pot, and all that went up into the basket, and the priest took for himself; and they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
For if he had given them rest, he would have no more spoken of another day.
Yea, thou in the beginning, Jehovah, hast founded the earth; And the heavens are the works of thy hands.
And she wept before Shammah the son, and cried, and said, Thou hatest me, and love me not: therefore thou wilt not tell me the good that thou hast said unto the sons of my people. But he said, I will not tell my father and my mother, and how shall I tell thee?
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, except Jehovah shall smite him, or his day shall come to die, lest he go down to battle and perish.
by faith also Sarah herself, being barren, having been able to conceive seed, even past the time of age; because she believed that he was faithful that had said:
that ye may be blameless, and true children of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a perverse and perverse generation; among whom ye shall shine as lights in the world.
For this time I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt put the holy oil upon him; and thou shalt make him ruler over my people Israel; and he will deliver my people from the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen the sorrow of my people, whose cry is come up unto me.
Behold, ye are all, ye children of Israel; render now your counsel.
All thy enemies shall perish, O Jehovah; but they that love him, are as the sun that burneth in his strength. And the land had rest forty years.
And the men of Israel were numbered of the children of Benjamin four hundred thousand men armed with the sword: all were mighty men.
And the day came, and Elkanah sacrificed; and he gave up to Zair his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
Gilead was over the Jordan; and Dan waited in his ships; and Asher dwelt in his place by the sea, and dwelt by his way.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do that which is good in thy sight. Then said the priest, Let us come near hither to God.
And a man of God came to him, and said unto him, The Lord saith, Did I let myself be seen of thy father's people when they were in Egypt, and servants in Pharaoh's house?
And they set the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the temple, and the mouse, and the molten images.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah will cast thee away from being king over Israel.
And the three sons of Jesse went, and followed Saul, and the name of his three sons, Eliab the first-born, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And he built an altar there unto Jehovah, and called it the Lord Jehovah: unto this day it is in the midst of the house of Abihail.
And David went up thence, and dwelt in the stronghold of En Gedi.
And the children of Dan went away: and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he returned to his house.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Abide not in the hold, depart, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Harden.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, Bring him up in the bed unto me, that he should slay him.
And this is the thing that thou shalt do: every male, and every woman that lieth with a man, thou shalt put to the curse; but thou shalt keep the young virgins: and they did so.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David; and they told him, and the thing was right in his sight.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust; He lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, To set them among nobles; And he maketh them a throne of glory; For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, And he hath set the world upon them.
And the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do for wives for them that remain? for the women are destroyed out of Benjamin.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house: and the child served Jehovah in the presence of Heli the priest.
All the people went into the forest, And honey was upon the ground.
And they waited until they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper chamber: therefore they took the key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord had fallen down dead on the floor.
And he took Edom, and the king of Amalek, and the king of the captivity, and slew all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loveth David; and they told Saul, and the thing was right in his eyes.
And now, behold, thy power shall not pass: Jehovah seeketh for a man that pleaseth him in every way, and hath given him the place of ruler over his people, because ye have not done the thing which Jehovah commanded thee.
And David enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this band? shall I overtake them? And he said unto him, Go after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and thou shalt deliver them.
And thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God in the top of this rock, whereon thou didst lay the sacrifice before; and thou shalt take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering upon the wood, which thou shalt cut down out of the garden.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together at Aphek; and the children of Israel gathered themselves together by the fountain of Jezreel.
without father, without parents, having neither begotten of days nor end of life, but as the Son of God, he abideth for all time.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together for war, and they gathered themselves together in tents of Judah; and they encamped between Zalmonah and Azekah, in Gilgal.
And he shall take thy fields, and thy vineyards, and thy oliveyards, and all the best of them, and give them to his servants.
And they rose up, and went up to Bethel, to inquire of God; and the children of Israel said, Who is the first to go up against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah is to go up first.
And it shall be that the rest of thy house, that shall not be cut off, shall go down to him for a piece of silver, or a piece of bread, and shall say, Be pleased, and put me into one of the high priest, that I may have a little food.
And Saul immediately fell on his face to the ground; and he was very afraid of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had not eaten bread all day and night.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But no man answered, and he took her up upon the ass: and the man arose, and went to his place.
Remember them that have the dominion over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation.
Why do ye provoke me in my sacrifices, and in my offering, which I have commanded in my dwelling-place, and anoint thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the prince of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And it came to pass on the second day after the new moon was come, that the place of David's place was empty. And Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why is not the son of Jesse neither yesterday nor day?
So David took the spear, and the pitcher of water from off the head of Saul; and they went away; and no man saw it, neither knew it, nor awoke; for they were all asleep; for a deep sleep from Jehovah fell upon them.
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing unclean: for the lad shall be a Nazarite of God from the womb unto the day of his death.
And Saul said, I have done wrong: come unto me, O David my son: I will do thee no more wrong: for my life is dear unto thee this day; for I am foolish, and my error is very great.
And the children of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were afraid; for they saw that evil had come upon them.
And he said unto his servants, Behold, the man is clearly off his head: why have ye let him come before me?
And Jair died, and was buried in his stead.
Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah showed himself to Samuel in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
From the day that the ark abode in Kiriath Jearim, the days increased, and waxed old, and all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
and let us fear, lest a word be left of entering into his rest, that any one of you may seem short,
And they came down from the high place into the city, where there was a bed prepared for Saul, and he went to rest.
And Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and smote of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
Now therefore go, and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay man and woman, the suckling and the suckling, the ox and the sheep, the camel and the ass.
For they indeed, for a few days, punished us as good to them, but he for our sakes, that we may be partakers of his holiness.
And they sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight against my land?
And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto David, The king desireth no more to buy a wife, save a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge himself upon the enemies of the king. Now Saul had purposed to let David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And the Holy Spirit spake, that the way was not yet made manifest, while the former tabernacle was yet standing.
And they rejoiced in their feasts, when they had now taken their good heart, and commanded that Jason should be called, and should play before them. And being brought out of the prison he played before them, and made him stand between two pillars.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord, to write unto you the same things, even to me also is not evil, but for you it is saved.
And Samuel served the presence of Jehovah, a young man girded with linen ephod.
and I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not hearkened to my voice.
who is become a priest not according to the law of the flesh, but according to the power of the unrighteous.
And God caused a hole in the midst of the rock into a den, and water came out of it; and he drank, and his spirit returned unto him, and he was strong again: and that place was called Helkath, which is to this day.
for I hope to send unto you shortly, that I may shortly see how it shall go with me.
And Jehovah said unto him, There are yet many people, bring them down to the waters, and I will cause thee to pass through them there: for whosoever I say unto thee, This man shall go with thee; and he shall go with you; and for all whom I say unto thee, This man shall not go with thee, he shall not go.
And it came to pass after him, that the name of the man of Bethlehem was over the house of Bethlehem.
not every one of his own, but every one of them.
And he laid hold on both the pillars whereon the house rested, and the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
that whatsoever goeth forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return safely out of the children of Ammon, shall be Jehovah's, and I will offer it for a burnt-offering.
not that I have obtained, or now made perfect; but I strive, if it be so, that I may take hold of that for which also I was taken by Christ Jesus.
We have an altar of which they have no right to eat, that serve the tabernacle;
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, Bring near unto me the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod unto David.
And Saul answered and said, Am I a Benjaminite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my house, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin, and why hast thou spoken unto me according to this word?
And Saul gave David his raiment of war, and put a crown of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a robe of brass.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us for certain that the asses were found. But he told him not what the kingdom of Samuel had spoken.
But my just man liveth by faith: but if he withdraw himself, he will not please my soul.
For know ye that after that, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected: for he did not find a place of repentance, though with tears he had sought it.
And he waited for seven days, the time appointed by Samuel; but the people came not unto Gilgal; and the people began to go away from him.
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat, that serve the tabernacle.
And Saul said, Thus shalt ye say unto David, The king desireth not any more dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And the old man said unto him, Peace be unto thee; for thou shalt give me all thy need, and shalt not sleep in the street.
For we know him that said, To me vengeance; I will recompense, saith Jehovah; and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
And they found a lie in the valley, and they fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
and ye have made molten images of your wares, and molten images of your abominations, and have given honor to the God of Israel: it shall be he shall make his hand clear from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
And next to him was Shammah the son of Aath, and slew the Philistines six hundred men with a field, and he defended Israel.
and said unto him, Behold now, thou art old, and thy sons do not go in thy ways: give us a king now to be our judge, that we may be as the other nations.
And she said, I will go with thee, that it may not be unto thee, that it may not be unto thee on the way whither thou goest; for Jehovah will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah rose up, and went with an ensign to Kedesh.
Then went up all the children of Israel, and all the people, and came to Bethel, and wept, and abode there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until evening, and offered up burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, and take bread with me this day: and in the morning I will let thee go, after unto thee all the secrets of thine heart.
He raiseth up the needy from the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill; that he may sit with princes, and hold the throne of glory; for the staves of the earth are Jehovah's, and upon them he hath established the world.
And the weight of the gold rings of gold that he asked was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, and of the chains, and of the silver, and of the purple garments which were upon the kings of Midian, and for the bands of their camels.
for your fellowship with the gospel, from the first day until now.
and having a great high priest, who hath made his way through heaven, even Jesus the Son of God, let us be strong in our faith.
And they rose early in the morning, and behold, Dagon fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon, and the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold: and they did it only.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were oppressed; and the children of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they trusted in the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
The mountains were moved before Jehovah, That Sinai was before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
for he longed for you all, and was grieved, because ye heard that he was sick.
And he took thirty men, and they were with him.
And Joram the son of Joash died in a good old age; and he was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the place of the house of David:
And Jonathan smote the army of the Philistines that were in Geba; and the Philistines heard it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And she said unto Shammah the son, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me a lie: tell me, that thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou be cut off the veil of my head with the house.
Yea, I beseech you, an instrument of peace, help them, who have fought with me in the good tidings, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua, and the names of his two daughters: the name of Michal the first-born, and the name of the younger Michal.
For the ground which drinketh the rain, which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth abundantly herbs for them, for whose sakes also it is tilled, the blessing of God;
without father, without parents, having no genealogies, having neither begotten of days nor end of life, but like unto the Son of God, stand a priest for ever.
but the men of Moab were numbered with all their army: and there were three thousand men of all the men of the east, and of the men of the east, a hundred and twenty thousand, mighty men of valor that drew the sword.
And she said unto him, How can thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me how great is thy strength.
and I will bring unto thee, to the river of the river, to Sisera, and to Sisera, and to his chariots, and to his multitude, and I will give him into thy hand.
And it was told Saul that David came to Keilah; and Saul said, God hath made him known for my hand; for he is shut in, to enter into a city of gates and bar.
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines a year and four months.
And Samuel grew up, and Jehovah was with him; and he suffered not any of his words to the earth.
And his father and his mother knew not that this was from Jehovah; and he sought for a occasion against the Philistines. And the Philistines reigned in Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, If thou wouldest keep me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it up unto Jehovah: for man knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And after whom wilt thou pursue after thee? After a dead dog, after a dream.
And when Abigail saw David, she quickly took off her ass, and fell upon her face before him.
And David pursued his men with these words, and did not let them rise up against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on the way.
For he, of whom these things are said, is a different tribe, of which no man hath put upon the altar.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten before us as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and bring them out of the city unto the highways.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man? and who is like unto thee in Israel? and why hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for one of the people came to destroy the king thy lord.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They shall deliver thee up.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, What thy name? when thy words come to pass, we have glorified thee.
And it came to pass, when the king's servants came in, that the servants of the king went in, and saw the doors of the prison, and they said, It may be that we may eat ourselves in the summer.
And they all believed by their faith, and received not what was promised.
And the people answered him the same words, saying, These things shall be given to the man that killeth him.
and make straight steps with your feet, that no man, being lame, may go out of the way, but rather be healed.
Take heed, and take knowledge of all the lies whither he lieth, and come again to me with certainty, and I will go with thee; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.
And the Carmelite answered David's servants, and said, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now a time that break away every man from his master.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they slew the Canaanites that dwelt therein, and utterly destroyed it: and the name of the city was called Hormah.
In that day God smote Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And the children of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for he cometh up to reproach Israel; and the man that smote him, the king shall enrich him with great riches; and his daughter he shall give to him, and his father's house shall be in Israel.
where your fathers tempted, by proving, and saw my works forty years.
And David took the head of the Philistines into Jerusalem; and David put his armor in his tent.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but the way that thou takest, thou shalt not be for thy glory; for Jehovah will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with an ensign to Kedesh.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me;
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabeshgilead: and all the men of Jabesh said to him, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, We have returned unto thee; go with us, and make war against the children of Ammon, and we will make thee our head over all the people of Gilead.
And when Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he was afraid; and his heart was greatly troubled.
And David arose, and went, and his men, and slew two hundred men of the Philistines; and David brought their foreskins, and gave them to the king, that he might be the son-in-law of the king; and Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
And they came and looked at Eliab, and said, The man of Jehovah is before him.
that ye may be holy and gentle, children of God without sin in a foolish and foolish generation, among whom ye are seen as light in the world,
And David went up thence, and dwelt in the palaces of En Gedi.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth, and fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan.
And all the people of the Philistines gathered together to Aphek; and Israel encamped by the fountain which is in Jezreel.
Now when it was ninety years old, being ninety years old, his eyes were dim, and he could not see.
And he sent and fetched him; and he was the first red, with beautiful eyes, and of great appearance. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he.
And man said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech.
For this cause ought more to take heed to the things which are heard, lest we may pass away.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner begat Abner;
and all this congregation shall know that Jehovah will not deliver with the sword, nor with the javelin; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hands.
And in the things whereof we say, behold, this is this: and we have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the king in the heaven,
And Japhlet went over to the children of Ammon, to make war upon them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ with your spirit. Amen.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
in the principle of faith, Noah, being warned of things which are not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared a ship for the salvation of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became heirs of the righteousness that is according to faith.
The shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the shaft of his spear was six hundred iron shekels: and the watchman went before him.
And the children of Israel, even of Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with the sword; they were all men of war.
And they shall ask of what thou doest, and will give thee two loaves, which thou shalt take from their hand.
And he took the oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them into all the coasts of Israel by messengers, saying, Whosoever shall not come forth, and follow Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went out as one man.
And now, if ye have here five loaves of bread, give them into my hand, or whatsoever thou hast.
and thou shalt hear what they say, and thy hands shall be strong, and thou shalt go down again to the camp; and he went down with his servant into the camp, where the eyes of men were.
For this is the glory of the world, and the bed is perfect: for God shall judge the whoremongers and the adulterers.
But Saul said nothing that day; for his thought was, and it was made to defile him; for it is clear that he is not clean.
Rejoice in Jehovah always, and I will say, Rejoice ye.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and who art my kindred, the family of my father in Israel, that I should be a son-in-law to the king?
Without covetousness the conversation, being satisfied with the gifts, for he hath said, I will not leave, nor forsake thee.
And there was a man of Ramah, a field of Zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim; and Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of Kohath, the children of Ephraim.
And this will we do, if God suffer.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and teraphim, and sanctified one of his sons, who was his priest.
Then smote the camp, and all the people with him; and they rose up early, and put up their tents by the side of the river; and the tents of Midian were on the left side of the valley of Moreh.
And Jehoash said unto all that stood against him, Ye shall intreat for Baal, ye shall deliver him? he that pleadeth for him is put to death in the morning; if he be a god, he will plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come, and reign over us.
Fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth, and with all your heart; for thou hast seen the great works which he hath done among you.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
and we have been like all the nations, and our king hath judged us, and went out before us, and fought our battles.
And Phinehas his wife, the wife of Phinehas, was with child near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father was dead, and her husband died, she bowed herself and gave birth; for her pangs came upon her.
And Abimelech answered the king, and said, Who among all thy servants is faithful as David, who is the son-in-law of the king, and is taken into thy council, and is honorable in thy house?
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house: but the child ministered before Jehovah before the face of Heli the priest.
And Samuel said, Art thou not, if thou, little in thine own eyes, head of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah will anoint thee for king over Israel;
whose voice the earth shook, and now hath he sworn, saying, I am not moved alone upon the earth, but also the heaven.
and the house was full of men and women, and all the princes of the Philistines, and upon the roof about three thousand men and women, who looked upon the music of Jonathan the son.
And Israel was very poor because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched by the affections of our flesh; but we have one who hath been tempted in all points, as we are tempted, but without sin.
Be glad in Jehovah at all times; I say, Be glad.
Behold, the days come when thy arm and the arm of thy father's people shall be cut off;
Of whom the world was not worthy, wandering in the wilderness, in mountains, and in holes, and in holes of the earth.
And her adversaries also provoked her to make her rage, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And he called, and said, My son Samuel. And he answered, Here am I.
but he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb unto the day of his death.
So David ran, and stood upon the Philistines, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw their mighty men, they fled.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness; without any man shall see God.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, we fear in Judah; how much more shall we go to Keilah against the Philistines?
Now there was no artismith found in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines had taken counsel, lest the Hebrews should smite them with swords or spears.
And they sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What is between thee and me that thou hast come to me to make war against my land?
But the other love, knowing that I am set for the oracle of the gospel.
And he was grieved, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great victory into the hand of thy servant; and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
do not forsake the assembling of ourselves, as the custom with some, but exhorting one another, and by so much as ye see the day drawing nigh.
And his sons went not in his ways, but went by the love of money, and were not upright in judgment.
And there was a high priest over the house of God.
thirty children riding upon thirty asses, and captains of thirty cities; and they called after his name Havothjair, that is, the villages of Jair, unto this day in the land of Gilead.
And they cut down the boughs from the trees, every man as he could, and followed their head; and they set it upon the high places round about; and it came to pass that with the smoke and with the fire a thousand, men and women, of the inhabitants of Shechem.
And the man said unto the angel of Jehovah, Abide with us, that we may prepare a kid for thee.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
But as we have begun to be, let us walk by the same reign, let us also consider the same thing.
that the violence done to the seventy men of war might come, and that their blood might be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
Let us keep the testimony of our hope without wavering; for he is faithful that hath promised.
And it came to pass, that he believed David, saying, He hath done much evil unto his people Israel: therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistines, and took his sword, and plucked it out of its sheath, and slew him completely, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their mighty men were dead, they fled.
and when ye see the daughters of Shiloh come out, as the custom is, to dance, come ye out of the vineyards, and take ye every man his wife among them, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, that he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards out of the land: why then lay thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
For after whom shall the king of Israel come out? and after whom art thou pursuing? and after a dead dog, after which thou hast gone?
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, Send me thy son David, who is with the sheep.
For he was sick in death; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him but upon me, that I might not suffer sorrow.
And it came to pass, when the day was come, that Saul set the people in three companies; and he came into the midst of the camp in the morning watches, and smote the children of Ammon until the day grew hot; and the rest were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
Is not this David of whom they sang one to another, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And the Midianites were subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more: for the land rested forty years in the days of the slaughter.
And he said unto him, Ah Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? Behold, my thousand are the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And he ceased from prophesying, and came to the high place.
For we are the circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh;
Remember the prisoners, as though ye were fellow-prisoners; remember the oppressed, as though ye yourselves are oppressed in the body.
And Jehovah smote a terror into the valley, and all his chariots, and all his multitude, with the edge of the sword, at the sight of a man, insomuch that there was a rush down from off his chariot, and fled away.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avengeth me; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
For they were not bearing the commandment, saying, If a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or with an arrow shot through.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Abide not in the castle; leave and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came to the forest of Succoth.
And when he lifted up his eyes, he saw a traveller in the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and where comest thou?
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do that which pleaseth thee, and tarry until thou hast weaned him; but Jehovah shall establish his word. And the woman waited and nursed her son, until she was weaned.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal said unto Saul, Let me go, why should I kill thee?
And the violence to the seventy children of Libya might come, and their blood shall be laid upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, who had strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And Shechem went out before the masters of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
and see, and behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dance, then come out of the vineyards, and take away every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
by faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, made ready for the salvation of his seed, because God had given him the tidings of things which were not seen at the time, and the world was judged by him, and he obtained his inheritance the righteousness that is by faith.
And they went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
And they went down into the uttermost parts of the city, and Samuel said unto Saul, Say unto the young man that he passeth before us, and he passeth on, and thou, stand at this time, and I will cause thee to hear the word of God.
And he restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I have surely prepared the silver to Jehovah out of my hand for my son, to make an image and molten image: now will I restore it unto thee.
And Amasa the son of Amasa, and his brethren, went to Shechem; and the masters of Shechem put their trust in him.
And Abimelech and the men that were with him thrust on, and stood at the door of the gate of the city, and the two strove against all that were in the field, and smote them.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, was in his place before it, and said, Am I yet to go up with the battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I give it up? And Jehovah said, Go on; for to-morrow I will give him into thy hands.
And they took their daughters for themselves, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Art thou not Abner? And Abner said, Who art thou that weepeth to the king?
And the thistle said unto the trees, If in good faith thou art anointed me as king over you, then come and take refuge in my shadow: if not, let fire go forth from the thorns, and consume the cedars of Lebanon.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, and the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass through thy land unto my place.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the plains of the Jordan toward Moab, and did not let a man pass over.
And David prevailed over the Philistines, with a sling and a stone; and he smote and slew the Philistine; and as David had no sword in his hand,
And Saul went up to the city of Amalek, and set an ambush in the valley.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they died.
And Bela went to Gaza, and saw a harlot, and went in unto her.
And also the hope of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent.
Because thou hast not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, neither hast thou put the wrath of his wrath upon Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done unto thee what thou hast done this day.
And I took her, and cut her into pieces, which I sent through all the land of the land of Israel; for they have done a shame in Israel.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua, and these are the names of his daughters: the name of the elder was Michal, and the younger Michal.
and if ye can not tell me, then ye have given me thirty linen coats, and two changes of garments. And they said unto him, Give forth thy riddle, and we hear it.
And before they burnt the fat, the servant of the priest came, and said unto the man that was sacrificed, Give me flesh to boil for the priest: for I will not take of thee raw flesh, but raw.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: but with me thou shalt be in safety.
And Saul heard that he was appeased with the words of Jonathan, and sware; as Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
And as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be prolonged in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all adversity.
But the people of Belial said, How is this man to be our Saviour? And having no respect for him, they gave him no oblation.
And Jonathan said unto David, Behold, my father is purposing thy death: now thou shalt take care in the morning, and hide thyself in a secret place.
who shall change the body of our confusion to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working wherewith he is able to perform all things unto himself.
And now, behold, the king walketh before thee; and I am old and ruddy, and behold, my sons are with thee; and I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
And the men of Jabesh said, Tomorrow we will come out unto thee, and ye shall do with us according to all that is good in thy sight.
And she said unto her young men, Go before me; behold, I come after thee. But she told her not the husband of Nabal.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And he judged Israel three and twenty years; and he died, and was buried in the name of the city.
and said unto her, Give me a little water, for I thirst; and she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him.
Know therefore, and consider, and consider what ye ought to do; for evil is purposed against our lord, and against all his house; and he is a wicked man, and no man can reason with him.
Now all the reproof seem for the hour not to be glad, but in pain; but afterwards it bringeth the peace of peace to them that are instructed by it.
And the children of Joseph went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Let me tell you a riddle: if thou canst tell me in the seven days of the feast, and find it out, I will give thee thirty linen garments, and thirty festal garments.
And smote the king and all the people that were with him, and encamped at the valley of Moreh; and he had the camp of Midian by the hill of Moreh.
And she wept for it the seven days that their feast was; and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he spake unto her; for she had grieved him, and told the children of her people a riddle.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, and empty cups, and lamps within the vessels.
For, behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head; for the lad shall be a Nazarite of God from the womb; and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And he came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, and pursued them.
And the women answered one another, saying, Saul hath smitten his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
whose end is the destruction of his god, And his glory, and his glory in their shame.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem, and laid his weapons in his tent.
For I will show mercy to their iniquity, and their transgressions and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And there was a honey on the face of the field; and all the people came to the honey, and the bees went out of it.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Art thou not Abner? And Abner answered, Who art thou that cry unto the king?
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man to his tribe, and to his house, and every man went out from thence to his inheritance.
And he rose up early in the morning, and went to Saul; and he spake unto Samuel, that Saul had come to Carmel, and set up a pillar, and went down to Gilgal.
And Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed; and she put upon his head a head of goats' hair, and covered it with raiment.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image for themselves; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests of the tribe of Dan, until the day when the ark was taken captive.
For many live, whereof I spake unto you many times, but now speak even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
So David rose up, and went, and slew two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their clothes, and gave them to the king, that he might be the son-in-law of the king; and Saul gave him Michal his daughter.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; your way is directed by Jehovah.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he set up before Jehovah.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, Thus shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
By faith he went out of Egypt, and did not turn away from his purpose by fear of the king's wrath: for he kept on his way, as seeing him that is not seen.
And again, behold, I and the children that God gave me.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and turned back again to Ekron on that day.
a minister of the sanctuary, and of the faithful tabernacle, which Jehovah set up, not man.
and having fallen, to revive them again to repentance, because they have crucified the Son of God, and have given him up to contempt.
And he said unto him, What manner of men were they, whom ye slew in Tabor? They answered, They were like unto thee, and one of them as the son of a king.
And the light of God was yet burning, while Samuel slept in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And the children of Dan sent five men out of their coasts, men of valor, and Zorah, and Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, search the land: who when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they lodged there.
And said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he calleth thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth. And Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And Saul said, Give counsel between Jonathan and Jonathan. And Jonathan was taken.
And it came to pass on that day, that they called him Jerubbesheth, saying, Let Baal plead with him, because he hath broken down his altar.
to test Israel, whether they should not walk in the way of Jehovah, to walk in it, as their fathers did.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Tarry, I pray thee, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said unto me yesternight. And he said unto him, Say thou.
And when thou comest to pass, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his brethren, and said, Behold, I had a dream, and there was a cake of barley in the camp of Midian, and came to a tent, and smote it, and overthrew it, and overthrew it, that the tent rested.
And it came to pass, when the people of Bethshemesh were cut up in the valley, that lifted up their eyes, and lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced when they saw it.
and the number of the firstborn, that are written in the heavens, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect;
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, and that he hath destroyed the spirits of the dead and the soothsayers; why hast thou set a snare for me to slay me?
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, Samuel, and Samuel. And Samuel said, Let thy servant hear.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together unto Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped by a fountain that is in Jezreel.
And it came to pass, when they were near Jebus, that the day was far away; and the servant said unto his master, Let us go out of the way of the Jebusites, and take our rest there.
And he made a vow unto Jehovah, saying, If thou wilt deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
and being confounded endured for the sake of Christ more riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he sought the reward.
Then came down his brethren, and all the house of his father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zareah, and Sareah in the sepulchre of man his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
And Elon the Netophathite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, And his ministers flames of fire:
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not obeyed my voice.
For by this the elders obtained a testimony.
And the men of Gibeah rose up against me, and surrounded the house because of me; and they thought to slay me, and my concubine, and they were humbled, and she died.
For he of whom these things are said is to another tribe, from which there is no man at the altar.
And the children of Israel numbered themselves, even of Benjamin, four hundred thousand men, drew sword, every man of war.
Awake, aha, awake, and awake; awake, awake; arise, awake, and take away thy captives, thou son of Abinadab.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them; and the young man hath not drawn his sword: for he was afraid, for he was a child.
And when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul; and they spake these words in the audience of the people; and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And if not, fire came out of Abimelech, and devoured the masters of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and fire came out from the masters of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devoured Abimelech.
And they said, What is it that we ought to render unto him for sin? And they answered,
and the people took of the spoil of the flock and of the herd, the first part of the devoted things, for sacrifices unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
For where we sin, after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more any sacrifice for sins;
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken our God, and serve the Baalim.
And the women answered one another in their song, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David the tens of thousands.
And he made a ephod thereof, and put it in the midst of it; and all Israel committed fornication with it, and it became a desolation to all his house.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel gathered themselves to Mizpah; and the princes of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard, and were afraid of the Philistines.
The hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of Midian the children of Israel made themselves the holes which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And there spake a second time, and said, Behold, they come down from the high part of the land, and one company is come by the way of the great tree.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night, and, behold, Saul lay in the midst of the den, and his spear stuck upon his head; and Abner and the people laid round about him.
And Abimelech told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, The Lord hath sent me to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of Jehovah.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her as he spake in his oath; and she had never touched a man: so it became a rule in Israel.
And Saul went in fear of David: for Jehovah was with David, and departed from thence.
And the woman said unto him, But thou hast known what Saul hath done, that he hath cast away from the land those that have familiar spirits and wizards: why wouldest thou, by a man deceive thee?
And the children of Benjamin did the same, and they took wives for themselves from the instruments of music, which they had taken, and returned to their border; and they built the cities, and dwelt in them.
For my father fought for you, and set thee far off, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;
And Jehoahaz the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the place of Ophrah, in the place of the king.
And her affliction hath provoked her to make her afraid; for Jehovah hath shut up her womb.
Let thy ways be without covetousness; Be satisfied with such things as thou hast; for he hath said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee.
And they saw a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us the entering into the city, and we will shew thee mercy.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be barren among women; and Samuel also divided them before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And it came to pass, when she heard the noise of the cry, and he said, What is the noise of this uproar? But he made haste, and came, and came, and spake unto him,
which a parable in the present time, in which both gifts and sacrifice are offered, which are not able, in regard to conscience, to make perfect him that serveth,
And Samuel took a bottle of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Hath not Jehovah anointed thee as ruler over his inheritance?
And he said, What hast thou done? And Saul answered, Because I saw that the people were going away from me, and ye came not at the time that was appointed; and the Philistines came together at Michmash.
These are the nations that Jehovah left, to make Israel known by them, all that knew not all the wars of Canaan;
The trees said unto the vine, Come, and reign over us.
And Deborah, and the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, spake, saying,
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Rejoice with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son in law.
and that a man may find his enemy, and send him away in a good way; and Jehovah will requite thee good for what thou hast done unto me this day.
If in the fear of Jehovah thou art his servants, and hear his voice, and transgress not the commandments of Jehovah, but cleave unto Jehovah your God, thou and the king reign over you, all shall be well.
But ye did well, and took counsel with my affliction.
Jehovah killeth and maketh alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And he saith unto the angels, He that maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And thus shall ye say unto him that liveth in peace, Peace be unto thee, and peace be unto thy house; and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And when Samuel was offering the burnt-offerings, the Philistines drew near for the battle against Israel: and Jehovah thundered against the Philistines with a great tumult that day, and discomfited them, that they might fall before Israel.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not dwell with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and our god Dagon.
But the Levites, that receive the priesthood, have a commandment to collect a tenth of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, even of Abraham.
And now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not; neither was there missing unto them, all the days that they were in Carmel.
And the people of Gilead said one to another, Who is the man that shall fight against the children of Ammon? and he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
but empty himself, and took the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and was found as a man.
For we have not a high priest, which can not be touched with the hardness of our infirmities; but in all points were in all points as we are, yet without sin.
Now therefore hear the voice of thy servant, and let me give thee a little bread, and eat bread for thee, when thou goest on thy way.
and his sons have not walked in his ways, and turned aside after the unrighteous gain, and take a bribe, and turn aside judgment.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.
And all the fighting men arose, and rose all night, and took Saul's body, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
Now when Samuel was old, he made judges over Israel.
And when David returned, after the Philistines were slain, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul, with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a multitude of people, as the sand on the shore of the sea; and they went up, and encamped in Michmash, on the east side of Beth-aven.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him.
But if ye can not tell me, then shall ye give me thirty coats, and thirty changes of garments. And they said unto him, Make thy riddle, that we may hear it.
And he said, Gather yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring ye every man his ox, and every one his sheep, and slay them in this place, and slay them, but do not sin against Jehovah by eating the flesh with the blood. And all the people brought them, every one with his ox in his hand that night, and slew it there.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Abide not in the stronghold, depart, and go into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Meribah.
And there was a young man from Bethlehem in Judah, of the house of Judah; and there was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
And the people, the men of Israel, strengthened themselves, and set themselves in array in the place where they had prepared themselves the first day.
Even so Christ glorified himself to be high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, this day I have begotten thee.
For if he were on the earth, he would not be a priest; for there were the priests that offer according to the law, the gift.
Which of the angels hath he said at any time, Sit at my right hand, Till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
And Deborah, Rebekah's wife, was a wife of whoredom, and she judged Israel at that time.
being confident of this thing, that he that began a good work in you, shall finish it until the day of Jesus Christ.
And the princes of Succoth said, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
And this is known, that the second priest is like Melchizedek;
And they served Jehovah all his days, and the days of the elders, that outlived him, and that knew all the works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
and ye have forsaken me, and serve other gods; therefore I will not add to you.
And he fell at her feet; and he fainted, and he died; and he was folded before her feet, and he lay faint and was faint.
And the king said to them that stood by him, Turn, and put to death the priests of Jehovah, because their hand also with David; for they knew that he fleeth, and did not uncover mine ear: and the servants of the king were not willing to put forth their hand against the priests of Jehovah.
Now it came to pass one day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man that bore his armor, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines, which is on the other side of yonder place: but he told not this to his father.
And he stripped his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Now there was a man of Ramah Rehoboth by the mountain Ephraim, and Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Shimea, the son of Toah, a Benjamite;
And all the congregation sent and spake unto the children of Benjamin, who were in the rock Rimmon, and proclaimed unto them peace.
And Jehoash said unto all that stood by him, Will ye contend for Baal? or will ye deliver him? he that striveth with him, let him be put to death while it is yet the morning. If he be a god, let him plead for himself, because they have broken down his altar.
saying, Be sure that I will bless thee, and multiply thy exceedingly.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the children of Israel, All go into thy own city.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I took Israel out of Egypt, and redeemed you from the hand of the Egyptians, and from all the kingdoms that have kept you.
that thou mayest remember the prisoners, as they are bound with; and those that are evil, as though ye were also in body.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and oblation thou wouldest not, but a body thou hast prepared unto me.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
But Sisera fled upon his feet unto the tent of Jahalah the Jebusite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenites.
And he came, and the hundred men that were with him into the uttermost part of the camp, the beginning of the middle guard; and they blew the trumpets with trumpets, and the vessels that were in their hand.
For they went up out of Egypt, and Israel went in the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And Bela went down to Timnah, and his father and his mother, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and there came a young lion upon him.
And Jonathan called after the lad, saying, Go fast, get haste, tarry not. And Jonathan the child gathered the arrows, and came to his master.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and thou shalt still prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.
But the thorns and the thorns are cast off, and is near to curse; whose end is to be burned.
And Samuel returned with Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And when he had brought the present unto him, he followed his companions with him.
And he judged Israel twenty years, and died; and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
And the Lord saved Israel that day, and the battle went to Beth-aven.
And the whole assembly sent to the children of Benjamin, that were at the top of Rimmon, and to preach peace unto them.
And Jesse took a ass laden with bread, and a skin of wine, and one young goat, and sent them to Saul by the hand of David his son.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and have cut down the Asherah that was by it.
For men indeed swear by a greater man, and in every controversy of them the oath is fulfilled.
And the carpenter died, and his body was stayed at Bethlehem.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who will tell me whether what thy father answereth thee?
and that every tongue may confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And when Saul and all the children of Israel heard these words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And the children of Israel sent to all the families of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that hath been done among you?
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise upon his sword, and died with him.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And it was said, The son of Shimea the son of Timnah, because he took away his wife, and gave her to another, hath done these things. And the Philistines went up, and burned both the woman and her father.
And the uncle of Saul said unto him, Tell me, I pray thee, what did Samuel say unto thee?
And they turned aside thither, to go in, to lodge in Gibeah; and he went in, and sat down in the open place of the city; and there was no one that received him into his house to pass through the night.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar he built unto Jehovah.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the children of Israel gave place to the children of Benjamin, because they trusted in the lie which they set at Gibeah.
whose voice shook the earth at that time; but now he hath said, Yet I will not shake the earth alone, but the heavens.
which was a figure for the present time, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the work perfect, as pertaining to the conscience;
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
And when they came up out of Egypt, Israel walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And they sent messengers unto the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent again the ark of Jehovah: come down, take it up unto you.
And again he bringeth forth the firstborn into the world, saying, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And God discomfited that day, even Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.
for the first day of the gospel of the first day.
And the number of the days that David dwelt in the land of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and lifted him up, and buried him, and buried him between Zareah and in the valley of man his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she pleased the well.
But the children of Israel had compassion on the children of Benjamin, and they said, This day a man is cut off from Israel.
And the Spirit of Jehovah took the rod upon them, and blew the trumpet; and the name of the Rechabites was called unto him.
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me, and my men, into the hands of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And the parable again sent unto them, and commanded them to say unto the king of Ammon,
And Melchizedek king of Salem, the priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham from the slaughter of the kings, blessed him;
And Sisera the son of Abinadab went up to mount Tabor.
And he shall take a tenth of thy sheep, and ye shall be his servants.
And the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, saying,
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul was lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, and go and seek the asses.
And when David had said these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, O David my son? and Saul was overcome with weeping.
And there was a certain stature of the family of the children of Dan, and his name was Adam, and his wife bare no child.
From now wait until his enemies are made a footstool for his feet.
And she answered and said unto him, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and hast told me a lie, and thou shalt tell me how thou canst be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shalt weave the hair of my head with divers colors.
And it came to pass that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down into the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
For the seventh day he spake, saying, God rested on the seventh day from all his works.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not save you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
Now the Midianites and Amalek, and all the people of the east, were lying in the valley, as a great multitude of locusts; and their camels were without number, as the sand that is upon the seashore.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off the dead and the soothsayers out of the land; and why hast thou laid a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
And deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; but if there be iniquity in me, kill me; for why should thou bring me unto thy father?
And it is yet more fair, if a priest be according to the likeness of Melchizedek;
And Saul said unto David, Behold, Michal my firstborn, I will give her to thee as a wife: only thou shalt be a mighty man for me, and fight against Jehovah. For Saul said, My hand shall not be against him, but the hand of the Philistines shall be against him.
And Saul gave Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of David's wife, to shear the son of Laish.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
and thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart; and put the gold jewels, which thou shalt return unto him for a trespass offering, in a covert by his side; and thou shalt send it away, that it may go.
By faith they passed over the Red Sea as if on the dry land; and the Egyptians, when they sought, were drowned.
And it was so: for he rose early in the morning, and made the wool in his hands, and fetched a bowl of water from the dew upon the wool.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and hewn; and he called the place, the stone of help. And he said, Thus far Jehovah hath helped us.
And the son of Ebedmelech said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbesheth? and fair to the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? and why should we serve him?
And Saul said, I give her to him, and she is to him for a snare, and the hand of the Philistines is upon him. And Saul said unto David, By the second hand thou shalt be my son-in-law to-day.
For there is a man's covenant, and he is dead; otherwise there is no strength, but as a man's life is life.
And Jehovah said unto him, By the three hundred men that are beheaded, I will deliver thee, and thou shalt give Midian into thy hand; and let all the people go every man unto his place.
Cast not away your confidence, which is a great reward.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a friend of thine, that is better than thou.
but come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, to the heavens of the heavens, and to the tens of thousands of angels, to the feast,
The first therefore also was the law of service, and the sanctuary, even the world.
And his uncle said unto him, Tell me what Samuel said unto thee.
And Saul said unto his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come not, and thrust me through, and make me a fool. But his armourbearer would not do so, because he was very afraid. So Saul took the sword, and fell upon it.
And Samuel took a lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
And Saul went to the house of Gibeah, to his house; and with him went the men of war, whose heart had touched him.
And David was wise in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
Is not these the things which thy god Chemosh hath possessed unto thee by right? but what Jehovah our God hath possessed, it shall be our possession.
And they said unto the children of Gilead, Did thou not, that thou hast hated me, that thou wouldest send me away from my father's house? why comest thou unto me now when thou art in trouble?
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord king.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this thing that thou hast done unto us, that thou didst not call us not, when thou wentest to fight with Midian? And they strove with him roughly.
in the past, saying, Ye have sacrificed and offering, and all burnt-offerings, and sacrifices for sin, and have not pleasure in them; for they that are offered according to the law,
And the princes of all the people, all the tribes of Israel, set themselves in the assembly of the children of God, and four hundred thousand men armed with rods.
And it came to pass, as she rode upon the ass, and was going down into the valley, that David and his men came down to meet her, and she met them.
And she said unto her young men, Go before me; behold, I come after thee, but she told her not the widow of Nabal.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this judgment,
And the children of Benjamin were eighteen thousand men; all these were valiant men.
And they said, Arise, and we will go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, very good; and ye keep silence: be not slothful to go to possess the land.
Therefore Jehovah left the nations, and did not drive them out; neither delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
For by the law of God death cometh to men once, and after that they are judged.
And they told Saul, and sent other messengers, and they prophesied; and he sent messengers a third time, and they also prophesied.
Be strong, and act like men, ye Philistines; lest ye come to be servants unto the Hebrews, as they have served you: take courage and fight.
And he took his people, and divided them into three bands, and stood in the field secretly; and when he saw the people coming out of the city, he went up, and fought against them.
Seeing then that the children have eaten in flesh and blood, he also himself also took of the same, that through death he might bring unto nothing him that hath the power of death, that is, the devil.
And Amasa went down with his father and his mother unto Timnah; and when they came to the vineyards of the city, behold, a lion came upon him, roaring and roaring.
For they have been made priests without an oath; but he sware by him that saith of him, The Lord hath sworn, and will not change his mind, Ye are a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And when the man arose to depart, his father besought him, and he lodged there again.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they offered peace-offerings before Jehovah. And Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak friendly unto her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house. And when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in palaces, and dwelt in the hill-country, in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him all the days, and God gave him not into his hand.
And the Philistines came and came to David, and the man that bare the shield was before him.
And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no dealings with any man; and they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may kill them.
But if ye still do evil, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.
And Abigail arose, and made haste, and went on an ass, and five maidens went with her, her maids, and she followed the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And his mother's brethren spake of him unto all the men of Shechem all these words, and they turned their heart after Abimelech, saying, He is our brother.
who shall change the body of our low degree, being like unto the body of his glory, according to the working wherewith he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
If any man do wrong to another, God will judge; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who will bring up his cause? But they did not hear the voice of their father; for it was Jehovah's purpose to destroy them.
And if thy young men ask them this thing, then let my young men have grace in thine eyes, for we are come at a good season; give to thy servants, and to David thy son.
The chief priest spake unto the chief priest, according to the order of Melchizedek,
And now, swear unto me by Jehovah, thou shalt not cut off my seed after me, neither shalt thou destroy my name from the house of my father.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah will have done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and will have set thee ruler over Israel;
And God heard the voice of Adam; and the angel of God came to the woman again, when she sat in the field; but her husband was not with her.
the doctrine of baptizing, and of the putting of hands, and of the dead, and of the dead on the last day.
And of the sons of Reuben, who came out of his loins, were threescore and seventy; for he had many wives.
and my God will give you all the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
And David fled from the city of Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? and what is my trespass, and what is my sin before thy father that he seeketh to kill me?
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, The son-in-law of the sister of Serah, because he took his wife, and delivered her to his friend. And the Philistines went up, and burned her and her father with fire.
And when he saw the people, he said unto the Kenites, Behold, they come down from the top of the hills: and the field saith unto him, Behold, the shadow of the mountains thou shalt see as men.
And Abigail went in haste, and rode on a ass, and five concubines of her that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And Enoch was interpreted by faith, not to see death, but was not found: for God hath interpreted unto him: for before his presence he was testified that he had pleased God.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he oppressed the children of Israel ten years.
Now therefore take, and make a new cart; and two kine, which have calved, on which there is not a yoke, bind the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And they took two chief princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb in the rock of Oreb, and like Zeeb, and pursued Midian, and went after Midian; and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to the Jordan on the other side of the Jordan.
And one of the young men answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Syrian, a mighty man of valour, a man of war, a man of war, and prudent in speech, and a great man; and Jehovah is with him.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but verily will we not kill thee. And they bound him with two a new cords, and brought him up out of the rock.
If any man sin against another, God is appeased for himself; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? And they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
In that day they took counsel, and said,
And the old man went out unto them, and said, Do not so, my brethren, do not so wickedly: for this man is come into my lodging, and I pray thee not from this folly.
And six hundred men turned back, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness, and dwelt upon the rock of Rimmon four months.
And Israel was greatly afflicted in the sight of Midian.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up for thee? And he said, Bring up Samuel for me.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and brimstone, and called the name thereof, saying, Jehovah helped us unto this day.
and Christ, as a son over his house, whose house are we, if the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope unto the end we hold fast.
Speak unto all the men of Shechem, saying, Is it better for you that seventy men all the sons of Judah should reign over thee, or that man should reign over thee? and, behold, I am thy bone, and thy flesh.
And they said unto him, Behold thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: make us a king to judge us, as all nations have.

God also witness with them, by signs and wonders, by various works of power, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
They shall salute you, and give you two loaves of bread, which ye shall receive from their hand.
And it came to pass, that she was ninety hundred years old, and his eyes were fixed, that he could not see.
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
But they forgat Jehovah their God, and sold them into the hand of Sisera, chief prince of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Leave us alone for seven days, that we may send messengers in all the borders of Israel, and if there be no deliverer for us, we will come out unto thee.
who is faithful to him that hath made him, as Moses also in all his house.
therefore said I, Now the Philistines shall come down upon me unto Gilgal, and I will not entreat the favour of Jehovah. And I made myself therefore, and offered the burnt-offering.
But a certain scribe hath given his witness, saying, What is man, that thou keepest him in mind? what is the son of man, that thou takest him into account?
who will also transform our humble bodies to be conformed to the glory of his glory, according to the power of the power of God, even to his glory.
And the angel of Jehovah went up into heaven from the altar, and the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar; and Adam and his wife looked upon; and they went down on their faces to the earth.
And he said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man mad: why bring ye him to me?
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou young? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Aramite.
For Jehovah chastiseth the one whom he loveth, and recompenseth every son whom he receiveth.
And that year they afflicted and afflicted the children of Israel, eighteen years, and all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which is in Gilead.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ekron, and Ekron with their border.
and say, Why, O Jehovah, God of Israel, hath this been in Israel, to be lacking this day from Israel?
And they said, Which is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up unto Jehovah at Mizpah? And, behold, there came no man out of Gilead unto the camp, to the assembly.
And it was clear to David that Saul had conspired against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Come here with the ephod.
And the Amorites dwelt in the mount of Ajalon, in Aijalon, and in dances; and the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and they became tributaries.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass offering: then shall ye be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not removed from thee.
And they chased him, and thrust him away, and chased him into the city; and many were slain of his people, even unto the gate of the city.
That is to say, not according to the law according to the flesh, but by the power of a living life.
If he were on the earth, he would not be a priest: for there were men to offer gifts according to the law.
Let us therefore fear, lest a word be left from us to come into his rest, that none of you should seem to come short of it.
And the men did so, and took two infants, and bound them in the cart, and shut up their young ones in the house.
Why standest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the cry of the flock? In the divisions of the children of Reuben there were great counsel.
But he, having sacrificed a sacrifice for sins, sat in righteousness at the right hand of God,
And fire kindleth in the lamps, and he sent forth the corn of the Philistines, and burned up the heap even to the ground, even to the vineyards, and to the olive grove.
And again he bringeth forth the first-fruits into the world, and saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And they passed through the land of Jabez, and found them not, and passed through the land of Baca, and they were not there; and through the land of Shelah, and found them not.
Neither will I drive out any more out of the hand of the nations that Joshua left when he died:
And it came to pass, when David came to Ziklag, that he sent some of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Behold, here is an offering for you from the spoil of Jehovah.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, If thou wilt keep me, I will not eat thy bread; but if thou prepare a burnt-offering for Jehovah, thou canst offer it; for man knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Why hast thou heard the words of man, saying, Behold, David seeketh thine evil?
Therefore, having received a gift of sanctification, we have grace, that we should serve, and please God, with fear and fear.
And Kore the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, took the ephod: and the people knew not whither Jonathan was gone.
In those days there was no king in Israel; Every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And he said, What hast thou done? And he answered, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not in the days appointed; and the Philistines came together at Michmash;
The wise women answered her, Yea, she answered her.
And I will send unto my servant, saying, Go, find the arrows. If I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon this side; bring it, and come; for it is profitable for thee; and there is no occasion, as Jehovah liveth.
And she wept before him the seven days of the feast; and at the seventh day, as she was evil, he interpreted it to her. And she told her to her brethren.
And Manasseh destroyed Manasseh, and the inhabitants thereof, and the inhabitants of Dor, and the inhabitants of Dor, and Ibleam, and Ibleam with their villages; and the Canaanites dwelt with them.
And Samuel said, Wherefore askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath left thee, and art gone over unto thy brother?
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they have escaped not who spake on earth, much more shall we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven.
Now there was a certain man in the wilderness of Maon, and his goods were in Carmel; and the man was very great: and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
And David was hid in the field, and the new moon came, and the king sat down to eat bread.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and they returned to Ekron the same day.
Forgive the iniquity of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make for my lord a faithful house; for thou, my lord, fight the battles of Jehovah: let not evil be found in thee all the days of thy life.
And David went whithersoever he sent him, and was wise; and Saul put him in the head of his men of war, and this was fair to all the people as well as the servants of Saul.
but if thou canst not tell me unto me, then thou shalt give me thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment. Tell us thy riddle, that we may hear it.
For every high priest shall be offered for the offering, and for the sacrifice, and for the sacrifice; for it is needful that he should have something to offer.
I have sought him to Jehovah; as long as he liveth he is to Jehovah. And they worshipped Jehovah there.
And David enquired of Jehovah yet again; and Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
For faith is sure of things, and of things which are not seen.
And he set up a second day a day, and spake by David this day, saying, To-day, if thou hear his voice, harden not your heart.
And he left them under the eyes of the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the days that David was in the guard.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, beside the inhabitants of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue; They shall all wax old as a garment.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? shew us how we send it to the place thereof.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods that I had made, and the priest, and ye go; and what is left for me? how can ye say unto me, What is the thing?
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the young bullock, which thy father hath, even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is therein;
And when she saw that he had trusted in her, she sent and called the rulers of the Philistines, saying, Come up one more time, for he hath trusted in me. And the princes of the Philistines came up, and brought the money with them.
Thus doth God do to the enemies of David; and thus shall he add, if I leave of all that he hath till the light of them that sit upon the wall.
Are not they all serving spirits, sent to do service for the sake of them that shall inherit salvation?
Now the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Heli, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days, and there was no vision.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man to his tribe, and every man his house, every man to his inheritance.
And Deborah said, Go; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath given to Sisera into thy hand: hath not Jehovah gone forth before thee? And he went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south side of the wall.
And Jehovah said unto him, By the three hundred men that are left, I will deliver thee, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand; and let all the people go, every man unto his own place.
For then he ought to have suffered often from the beginning of the world: but now, at the end of the ages he hath appeared unto the destruction of sin, by the sacrifice of himself.
But it came to pass, when the prince died, that they feared themselves, and were more corrupt than their fathers, and after other gods, serving them, and bowed down to them, and did not give up their doings, nor did their stubbornness.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who saw all the great work of Jehovah, which he did to Israel.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon, the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
Which we have as the surdings of the soul, both strong and right, and enter into the inner part of the vail;
Now therefore know, and consider what thou doest: for evil is determined against our lord, and against all his house; and he is too much for vanity.
And he said unto her, What is he like? And she said, An old man cometh up, and is covered with a garment. And he knew that it was Samuel; and he bowed himself with his face to the ground, and was afraid.
The mother of Sisera looked out at the window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why are the wheels of his chariots?
And David came to the two hundred men, who were weary, and were not able to follow David; and he had commanded them to abide in the river, or to meet David, and to the people that were with him. And David came to the people, and saluted them with peace.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man to his place.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the clothing, and returned, and came to nought.
And the children of Dan sent to spy out the land, and to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, view the land. And they went on their way, and came to mount Ephraim; and they went into the house of Michmas, and remained there.
And they took their bones, and buried them under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, on the way to Shur, which is before Egypt.
And God clave the rock which was in a house of a man, and water came out of it; and he drank, and his spirit came again, and he revived: therefore the name of his name was Helkath, which is to this day.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until the evening, and enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall we now draw near from the battle against the children of Benjamin, our brethren? And Jehovah said, Go up against them.
Then the princes went down to the gate; The assembly of Jehovah went down among the mighty ones.
And she dwelt under the palm tree of Rebekah, between Ramah and Bethel, in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And she called the child, saying, The glory of Israel is departed from Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And I thought that thou hadst hated her, and I gave her her to thy friend; but she had a sister, and she was younger than she; and she took her to wife instead of her.
And after him was mocked, the son of Jephunneh, who smote six hundred Philistine Philistines with the oxen; and he was the saviour of Israel.
being able to endure the ignorance of ignorance, because he himself is clothed with infirmity.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent it, as the sole of a young goat, and nothing in his hand; and he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father hath bound the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread this day; and the people faint.
and having tasted the good word of God, the powers also of the coming world,
He came into a troop, and the Philistines shouted at the assembly; and the Spirit of Jehovah prospered over him, and the thick bands that were upon his shoulders are as flax which they burn with fire; and his bands are consumed from off his hands.
And the Hebrew that had been with the Philistines, and the day before, and went up with them into the camp, returned to the children of Israel, who were with Saul and Jonathan.
Wherefore the sin of the young men was exceeding great before Jehovah, because they departed from the sacrifice of Jehovah.
And Jehovah remembered Hananiah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters; and the child Samuel grew up with Jehovah.
Then he that remaineth of the honorable, that he gave to reign the people of Jehovah, He made me to reign among the mighty.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us, for there hath not been like this before.
lest there be any whoremonger, or profane man, as Esau; who for one occasion sold his first birthright.
And the Philistines were subdued, and went no more into the borders of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
But the lad knew not any thing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
We have an altar, whereof they have no power to eat, that serve the tabernacle.
For indeed he was sick in death: but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also upon me, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
and Jehovah was with Judah; and he dwelt in the hill-country, but not to drive out the inhabitants of the valley; for they have chariots of iron.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the tribulation of death, crowned with glory and glory, that through the grace of God he might taste death for all.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem, to his mother's brethren, and spake unto them, and unto all the house of his mother's father, saying,
For Israel and the Philistines had prepared the battle in array against the host.
For if Jesus had brought them to rest, he would not have spoken again concerning another day.
And David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel in Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done unto him. And he went and dwelt in Shimron.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their place.
And they sent messengers to the children of Benjamin, that were in the rock Rimmon, and commanded them to receive them in peace.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
For it is impossible for them that have once been enlightened, and have tasted the heavenly gift, and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan in affliction; and the children of Israel served in affliction eight years.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name: for Jehovah hath purposed to make thee his people.
And when he was come, Eli sat upon a place over the way, because his heart was afraid for the ark of God. And when the man was come into the city, he told it, and all the city cried out.
And it came to pass, when the prince of the city heard the words of Rimmon the son of Shelemiah, that his anger was kindled.
And David said unto his heart, Now now am I consumed one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing for me better than that I should escape unto the land of the Philistines; but Saul was grieved of me, that sought me any more in all the borders of Israel, and I escaped out of his hand.
and there was a golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant covered upon all sides with gold, in which was a golden pot with the manna, and the rod of Aaron that had budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And the boil took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold what is left, set it before thee, and eat; for it was kept for thee, when I called the people. And Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
And they gathered all his chariots, and every hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the descent of the nations unto the river of Kishon.
Woe unto us, for there was no great joy, and the day before: woe unto us! who shall deliver us from the hand of these gods? These are the gods that smote Egypt with all the plagues in the wilderness.
And David again inquired of Jehovah; and Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried to Gath; and they carry the ark of the God of Israel about.
And the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there, but the bread that was taken from before Jehovah, to set bread in the day when it was taken away.
For every high priest is ordained to offer, and to offer, and to sacrifice; for he must have a thing that he offereth.
And David said to Ahimelech, Is there not under thy hand a spear or a sword? for I have not brought my sword nor my weapon with me, for the king's business was urgent.
The chief priest was called a high priest according to the order of Malchijah.
And Jonathan called David; and Jonathan told him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him as beforetime.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
and fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, let the iniquity be: but let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed.
Yea, if in truth and in sincerity ye have dealt with Baal and with his house, rejoice ye in Abimelech; and he shall rejoice, even he in you.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah give them up before me, shall I be your head?
When Saul saw that he was wise, he feared him.
And it came to pass, when she had done this, that she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and arise; and awoke out of his sleep, and cast out the nails and the cords.
And they that were not caught by death were persecuted, and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And the children of the Philistines that were for the Philistines before them, who had gone up with them into the camp round about, even they clave unto the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
But he answered, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son: take heed to thyself, take heed no wine, nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite of God from his youth, from his mother's womb unto the day of his death.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked him a king.
And when the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim were in the bed, with the head of goats' hair at his head.
and when he was made perfect, he was the giver of eternal salvation unto all that are under his commandments:
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and took his place in the valley secretly.
And she arose, and bowed himself upon her face to the earth, and said, Behold, thy handmaid be a handmaid to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I took you up out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
Now when Saul had taken his place as the prince of Israel, he made war against them that were against him on every side, Moab, and the children of Ammon, and the king of Syria, and the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines; and such as he went, he smote them.
But a certain woman sent a great stone, which was in the midst of Abimelech's head, to the head.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that saith, Saul reigneth over us! Give up the men, and we slew them.
Behold that ye hear his voice that cometh unto you: for if they have shut up the voice that came to them on the earth, shall not be loosed, what shall we suffer if we should not hear the voice of the heaven?
And Jesse made Shammah to pass by: and he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
but ye know the proof of him, that, as a child ministered unto a father, so ministered unto me in the gospel.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and spake them in the hearing of Jehovah.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people spake of stone him; for the souls of all the people were grieved, every man for his sons, and for his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
by faith, Abel offered unto God a greater sacrifice than Cain, by which he had testified to him that he was righteous; and God testified with respect to his gifts; and by him he was dead, still speaking.
And she said unto her father, Only do this for me: let me have two months, and go into the mountains with my friends, weep for my sorrow.
And they rose early on the morrow, and, behold, Dagon fell upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah; and they took their place of Dagon, and set him in his stead.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate, and rose up, and went away that night.
For every house is built by another; but he that built all things is God.
And it came to pass after a time, that he returned to take her, and turned aside from the way to see the dead bodies of the lion, and saw a swarm of bees in the den of lions, and honey there.
Shall the king of Israel come out? and after whom wilt thou pursue? and after a dead dog, after whom wilt thou pursue?
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
For a covenant of the dead is faithful; for it is no man in all the days of the covenant.
In like manner also ye rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And the king sent to call Abimelech the son of Ahitub the priest, and all his father's household, the priests that were at Nob: and they all came to the king.
that from year to year the daughters of Israel shall go to celebrate the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite four days in the year.
saying, Blessed I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee exceedingly.
And Saul inquired of Jehovah: Shall I pursue after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not that day.
And it came to pass, when the lad was gone, that David came from his den by the mountain, and fell upon his face three times: and they gave one another a kiss, and wept together, until the sorrow of David was greater.
Let your desire be for peace with all men, and be made holy, that no man may see the Lord.
And when the children of Israel saw that they were in trouble, the people were troubled; and they hid themselves in the caves, and in the thick places, and in the rocks, and in the high places, and in their holes.
And the priest of the house of Dagon, and the priest of Dagon, shall put his foot upon the gate of Dagon in Ashdod.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and the villages thereof, and all the cities that are round the banks of the Arnon three hundred years, why did ye not recover?
that we may come forth with a true heart, and be full of faith, and cast to our hearts from a evil conscience, and washed our body with pure water.
And he said unto them, Follow me, for Jehovah hath given them the Moabites, the Moabites, into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the river of the Jordan toward Moab, and did not let a man pass over.
And when they were a good way out of the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses of the house of Micah were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And he said unto his servant, Thou hast said well: come, let us go; and they went into the city of the man of God.
And Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of the land, nor the inhabitants of Sela; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not: thou art in no manner of death.
And Jehovah was seen in Shiloh, for Jehovah spake unto Samuel in Shiloh, the revelation of his word.
But this man offereth a sin-offering for ever, for ever sitteth upon the right hand of God;
But we will not give them wives of our daughters; for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And the Philistines drew nigh the morning and evening, and offered himself forty days.
And he said, What is the word which he spake unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me: wherefore God will do unto thee, and will he add, if thou hide from me all the words that he spake unto thee.
And he took his staff in his hand, and took five smooth stones from the bed of the river, and put them in a bag such as was used of the flocks: and in his hand was a girdle of skin, and he went in the way of the Philistines.
Abide with me; fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: thou art in good care with me.
And he took a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him; and he wrote unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, threescore and seventeen men.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and by day; and all the days of our being with them were feeding the flock.
And they passed from thence to mount Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel, beside Benjamin, were four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.
Eat it for correction: for God hath dealt with you as sons: for what son is there, whom a father doth not chasten?
But the fruit of bread is for the perfect, who, because of the fruits of the hands of the good and evil, hath taught them.
Therefore I have lent him unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth, he shall be made to Jehovah; and he bowed down before Jehovah.
And Saul took three thousand men, chosen out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rock of the wild goats.
The men that had not died were smitten with the caterpillar, And the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the fruit of the land, until thou comest to Gaza; and they left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Judah went out against the Canaanites, that dwelt in Hebron; and the name of that which was in the first time was Kiriath-arba, and Ahiman, and Talmai, and Talmai.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And they said unto him, We have come down to take thee, and deliver thee into the hands of the Philistines. And Jason said unto them, Give me thy oath, that ye may not hurt me.
And he returned to Ramah; for there was his house, and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And when they saw the host, he said unto the children of Moab, Behold, they come down from the top of the mountains. And he said unto him, Behold, the mountains of the mountains look like unto thee.
Remember ye the word of God, who have spoken unto thee the word of God; and consider the issues of their life, and follow their faith.
And save them that fear death, All their days under bondage.
if ye have dealt faithfully and faithfully with baal, and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in thee.
And it shall come to pass on the third day, that thou shalt go down quickly, and go unto the place where thou hast hid thyself in the day that thou hast gone, and shalt remain beside the stone of Ephraim.
and let us consider one another to provoke love and good works.
And Adam said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
I pursue, therefore, for the obtaining of God's elect in Christ Jesus.
This day will the Lord deliver thee into mine hand, and I will smite thee, and I will take thine head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowl of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And because of this he is the mediator of a new covenant, that, because of the blood of the transgression of transgressions committed by the first covenant, those that are called shall receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
But I have faith in the Lord, that I also will come before many.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To morrow, when the sun is hot, ye shall have peace. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh, and they were glad.
And it came to pass, when the day came for Elkanah to make his oblation, that he gave to his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, their portion of the feast,
And David said unto the men that were near him, What shall be done to the man that overcometh this Philistine, and take away the shame of Israel? for who is this of the Philistines, a man uncircumcised, that he hath put shame upon the hosts of the living God?
And it came to pass, when I saw this, that I put my life in my own hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hands. What have I deserved, that thou shouldest rise up against me?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest hot men run upon thee, and thou shalt lose thy life with the life of thy house.
that he dwelt as a stranger in the land of promise, as in a land not his, dwelling in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the sons of Jacob, according to the promise.
For we are the circumcision, who in spirit serve God; and glory in Christ Jesus, not having confidence in the flesh.
These are the golden vessels which the Philistines returned as a trespass offering unto Jehovah: one of Ashdod, and Ashkelon, one; and Ashkelon, one; and Ekron;
Thou shalt make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land: ye shall break down their altars. But ye have not hearkened unto my voice: why hast ye done this?
For to which of the angels he said, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be unto him a father, and he shall be unto me a son.
And the children of Israel did not remember Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side;
And Hananiah spake in her heart, and her lips fell, but her voice was not heard: and she thought, She was drunken.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice and wept.
and the five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivite, which is in Lebanon, from mount Hermon unto Hamath.
And Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have counted all that Amalek hath done unto Israel: how he hath withstood them in the way when they came up out of Egypt.
And he gathered together his nine hundred chariots, and put them in array, and all his army from the hand of the nations to the valley of the river.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away two months: and she went, she and her friends; and she wept for her virginity upon the hills.
If he were on the earth, he would not be a priest; for there are those that offer the gift according to the law.
And the king said, Make search, and see whose son this young man is.
And his concubine, that was in Shechem, bare him a son; and he called his name Abimelech.
And she said unto Shammah, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me falsehood: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mayest be bound.
and there was a vessel of gold in it for burning incense, and the ark of the covenant, which was overlaid with gold, and that which was in it of gold for the manna; and the rod of Aaron that put forth buds, and the stones with the writing of the covenant;
and not by the blood of the goats, and of the calves, but in the blood of his own blood he entered into the most holy place, to buy the everlasting redemption.
And he smote them with a great slaughter; and he went down, and dwelt in the rock of Etam's rock.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah concerning the Midianites.
For our God is a consuming fire.
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place.
and said unto him, Thus saith the parable, Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon.
And after him was Abdon the son of Dodo, the Pirathonite, who was over Israel.
And Saul said unto his young man, Thy word is good: come, we go. And they went unto the city of the man of God.
And at the time of her death, when the women that stood by her say, Fear not, for thou hast borne a son; she hath not answered, nor put her heart to it.
And he went away, and went into the land of Hamath, and built there a city, and called it Joktheel; which is called unto this day.
And thou shalt cry in that day because of thy king, whom thou hast chosen for yourselves; and Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the mouth of the bear, shall he deliver me out of the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, for Jehovah will be with thee.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it out of the hand of Ashdod.
And the wife of Samhar wept before him; and she said, Thou shalt hate me, and thou shalt not love me: thou hast told my people a riddle, and hast not told me. And he said unto her, I have not told my father and my mother: why should I tell thee?
If by any means I may attain unto the resurrection, which is from the dead.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; for he hath not sinned against thee; for also what he hath done is very good unto thee.
And the spoilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one went to the way that leadeth to Ophrah, to the land of Bilhah.
And the six hundred men armed with their weapons of war, which were of the children of Dan, stood at the entry of the gate.
For it is impossible for them to be enlightened, having tasted also of the heavenly gift, and partakers of the Holy Spirit.
The violence of the fire is upon the edge of the sword, And he hath escaped the strength of the sword; He is mighty in the battle, And he hath scattered the nations.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; and David put his armor in his tent.
And Samuel turned about to depart; but he laid hold on the hem of his garment, and it rent.
and that day he gave him the seat of Ziklag that day: for that cause the kings of Judah unto this day.
and for them that were in the cities of the children of Jerahmeel, who were in the cities of the Kenites;
And the people saw him, and praised their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy into our hand, and he that layeth waste our land, and who multiply our wound.
And they remain till confounded; and behold, he openeth not the doors of the upper chamber; and they take the key, and open, and behold, their master is fallen to the earth.
And they turned and went, and put the little children, and the cattle, and the precious things before them.
And they gathered themselves to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehem, of the house of Judah, who was a Levite; and he dwelt there.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness; so that there is nothing left of all that pertained unto him; and he hath rewarded me evil for good.
And Saul said, No man shall be put to death on this day: for this day Jehovah hath given salvation to Israel.
And the house of Joseph sent to weep Beth-el; and the name of the city was at Luz.
And he brought to Eglon the king of Moab; and he was very fat.
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Saul's daughter Michal loved him.
And the princes of the Philistines came out, and it came to pass from the time of their coming out, that David was wiser than any of the servants of Saul, and his name was very precious.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray thee, cakes of bread to the people that are at my feet; for they have wearied themselves, and I pursue after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
these shall perish, and thou shalt remain, and all thy raiment shall be old.
And the messenger answered, and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines; and there is a great slaughter among the people; and thy two sons, even the chief singer, and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking, that he cast away his face from his hand, and called that place Ramah.
And he stood up, and cried with a loud voice, saying, Why art thou come out to war? Am I not a captain of the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? send out a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
And now Jehovah the God of Israel hath cast out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shall ye possess it?
and when I saw that ye did not deliver me, I put my life in my hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: why then come ye up unto me this day, to fight against me?
They shall perish, but thou remainest; And they all shall wax old as a garment.
And Abdon the son of Dodai the Pirathonite died, and was buried in the valley of Ephraim in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
Now therefore, let my sin be forgiven, and go with me to worship Jehovah.
And David said unto them, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with what Jehovah hath given us: he hath kept us, and hath given the bands that came against us into our hand.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, Behold the man of whom I spake unto thee, this man shall reign over my people.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will punish Amalek for what he did unto Israel, when Israel came forth out of the land of Egypt.
And it came to pass about a month after this, that the children of Ammon came up, and fought against Jabez. And all the men of Jabez said unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And Hananiah said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a faint spirit: I have not drunk wine nor strong drink; but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their place.
And as she rode upon the ass, and came down by the den of the hill, behold, David and his men came down before her; and she met them.
Wherefore I send him in order, that when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and I am less troubled.
And the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, and said unto her, David hath sent us to thee, to take thee to himself for a wife.
For he that hath entered into his rest hath also rest from his works, as God did from his.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee, and Jehovah will avenge me from you; but my hand shall not be upon you.
Is not this David of whom they sing in the dance, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, but David his ten thousands?
And Eli blessed Elkanah, and his wife, and said, Jehovah will give thee seed of this woman, for the request wherewith she besought Jehovah. And they went to their place.
And they rose early in the morning, and, behold, Dagon fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon, and the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold: only the stump thereof was left to him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah prospered over him; and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote of them thirty men, and took their armor, and gave the order to them that shewed the vision; and his anger was kindled, and he went up to the house of his father.
But they have dealt well with us; they have done us no wrong, and we have not been touched with them in the field.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thine hand.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste to come, for the Philistines have spread themselves upon the land.
and I will go and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armor.
And Israel journeyed from thence, and Israel journeyed through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and went unto Kadesh.
who, through faith, subdueth kingdoms, wrought righteousness, having sworn, stopped the mouth of lions,
And this time will I send unto thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him over my people Israel; and he shall deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have seen the affliction of my people, because their cry is come unto me.
These all, having testified by their faith, believed not,
Be watchful therefore, brethren, lest there be among you an evil, unbelieving heart, that ye fall from the living God.
And the trees said to the vine, Thou art lord over us.
and say unto him, Behold, thou art grown old, and thy sons have not walked in thy ways: now, appoint thou to us a king, to judge us, as all the nations.
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife; and he said unto him, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman, for thou hast lent unto Jehovah; and they went to his own house.
And when Saul was told, he sent messengers, and they prophesied; and he sent messengers again, and they prophesied.
And the villages ceased in Israel; and when Rebecca came up, I rose up; and there arose a mother in Israel.
And the greatest part of the brethren in the Lord, having confidence in my bonds, are more abundantly bold, to speak the word.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us how we should send it again to its place? And they said,
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, and Shammah the son. And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go forth as at other times before, and I will destroy myself; and he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
And so it was, that they were slain on both sides of the enemy, and there was no rest of their men; and they fell, and were beaten down on the east side of the city.
And they came down out of Ephraim into the valley; after thee, O Benjamin, among thy tribes; from Machir came down the captains, and from Zebulun, the rod of the prince.
And David dwelt with him in Gath, he and his men, every one with his house: and David took his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us draw near to one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And he called, and said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
And they said, Thou hast not stolen us, nor oppress us, neither hast thou taken of any man's hand.
For the former truth preach Christ from the heart, thinking that they add affliction to my chain;
And Jesse took an ass, and bread, and a bottle of wine, and one kid of the goats, and sent by the hand of David his son unto Saul.
And Christ being come, the chief priest of the coming of the good things, through the greater and without a tabernacle made with hands, that is, not of this creature.
and I have all things, and increased; I am full, and have taken away from thee the things that pertain to thee, a sweet savour, a sweet savour, a sacrifice pleasing to God.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day, What is better than honey more than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye have not found my riddle.
For every one of them shall make an oath by the matter, and the contention shall be fulfilled by the law.
And he went once and ever into the holy place, having gotten eternal salvation, not by the blood of he-goats and the bullocks, but by his blood.
And the Lord called the name of Samuel. And Samuel arose, and came to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me, and said, I have not called thee, my son: return and sleep.
For the law maketh men high priests, having infirmities; but the word of the promise which is according to the law, the Son is perfected for ever.
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing after the Philistines, and plundered their camp.
And she sent for the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said unto him, Did not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded thee, saying, Go and take thee a line in mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
And Eliab, his firstborn brother, heard when he spake unto the men, and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David, and he said, Why hast thou come down? and to whom hast thou left the few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the evil of thy heart; for I know the battle that thou hast come down.
And she brought it before Saul and his servants, and they ate; and they arose, and went away that night.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah; and he was a young man girded with a linen ephod.
and a golden censer, and the ark of the covenant covered round about with gold, in which the golden pot had manna, and the rod of Aaron that had budded, and the tables of the covenant;
So Saul died, and his three sons, his armourbearer, and all his men that same day.
And the children of Israel returned unto the children of Benjamin, and smote them by the edge of the sword out of the city, and men to cattle, unto all that was found; and all the cities that were found they sent into fire.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, which by the everlasting Spirit sacrifice himself without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
But Saul said nothing that day, for he said, He is not clean; he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
And when thou goest, thou shalt come to the poor, and the land is great: for God hath given it into thine hand, and there is no lack of anything that is in the earth.
By faith we understand, that the world was made according to the word of God; that the things of the world could not be made manifest.
And the charge was two according to the shekel of the field, and for the shekel, and the third part of a shekel for the slaughter, and for the axe, and for the wood-rods.
And the king said unto Baal, Turn, and smite the priests. And the king of Edom turned against the priests, and smote the priests, and slew the ephod on that day.
And it came to pass, when Saul was living in the days of Saul, that there was a great war against the Philistines; and when Saul saw that there was a mighty man, or any good man, he kept him by himself.
And the king called Kedesh and Naphtali; and he went up with his feet ten thousand men; and Rebekah went up with him.
of the teaching of baptism, of putting on of hands, of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, and said unto her, David hath sent us to thee to take thee for his wife.
And all that fell of Benjamin are twenty and five thousand men that drew sword; even all these men were valiant men.
And Jehovah sent unto destroy Baal, and Ziza, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies on every side; and ye dwelt in safety.
And it came to pass, that the youth came and rose, and rose up, and good both with the Lord, and also with men.
Wherefore, having received the kingdom of the kingdom, let us thank, that we may serve God with respect, and fear and fear.
And Job said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man mad: why then have ye brought him unto me?
And one of the servants answered, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Syrian, a skilful workman, and a man of great strength, and a man fit for war, and prudent in his words, and a fair man; and Jehovah is with him.
And the people made the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and the sons of the herd, and slaughter on the earth; and the people ate with the blood.
For every man that is a partaker of milk, is prudent in the word of righteousness; for he is a little child.
For this man was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses: how much more he that built the house is greater than the house.
And all Israel went out from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead; and they gathered themselves together unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take for thy brethren an ephah of barley, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp unto thy brethren.
For thus saith he unto them, Behold, the days come, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
For my father made war for you, and slew thee, and redeemed thee from the hand of Midian;
For they came up continually with their oxen and their tents; they came as the locusts in number; they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land for its destruction.
looking unto Jesus, the Holy One, and perfect of faith: for the joy that was set before him endured, and despised his shame, and sat down at the right hand of God.
and take these ten centurions unto the captain of their thousand, and see how your brethren are, and come back with a sign to speak their words.
And she arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, Behold, thy servant is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And by the law almost all things are cleansed with blood; and without blood there is no atonement.
For we have a great priest over the house of God,
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me, and let my enemy go and flee? And Michal answered Michal, Because he said unto me, Let me go, lest I kill thee.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until evening; and they asked Jehovah, saying, Shall I again draw near to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And they put his armor in the house of the Millo, and fastened his body unto the wall of Beth Shean.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my inheritance, that we may fight against the Canaanite; and I will go with thee into thine inheritance. And Simeon went with him.
Shall I take my bread, and my water, and my flesh, which I have slain for my shearers, and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
It is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, thou art worthy to die; for thou hast not kept watch over thy lord Jehovah's anointed: now therefore see the king's spear, and the pitcher of water that was at his head.
And it came to pass, when she had been grieved in her heart, that she prayed unto the Lord with tears,
And the son of Amasa came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem put confidence in him.
And Abimelech dwelt in the field of the field; and the children of Heth smote him, and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
For they that speak such things make manifest that they seek a land of their own.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other was Penuel; and she was the mother of the children, but she had no children.
And his son did not consent to his words; but immediately went forward and came to Jebus, which is called Jerusalem, which is called with him two asses, and his concubine.
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why come ye out to battle in array? am I not a captain of the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? choose ye a man, and let him come down to me.
But I trust in Jehovah, that I also will come unto you shortly.
And he said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
and forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bow themselves to them, and provoke Jehovah.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David saw the place where Saul had lain, and Abner the son of Ner, head of his army; and Saul was lying in the way, and the people encamped round about him.
And it shall come to pass, when ye have departed from me this day, that thou shalt find two men by the sepulchre of Rachel, in the border of Benjamin, at the border of Benjamin: and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to look for have been found; and behold, thy father hath left the asses, and is anxious for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
Now the sons of Eli were evil and wicked men, having no knowledge of the Lord.
I also, even I, am it far from me to sin against Jehovah, to pray for you, and I have directed you in the good and upright way.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people in it; and he smote the city, and sowed it with salt.
If they say thus unto us, Wait, till we come unto thee. Then will we stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
And Micah the man made himself a high place, and made an ephod and teraphim, and made a priest for him a priest.
And the day came, and Elkanah offered sacrifices, and gave to destroy his wife, and to all her sons and daughters,
but concerning the Son, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the scepter of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And when the people saw him, they glorified their God; for they said, Our God hath delivered our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, who have slain many of us, into our hand.
And he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And the Holy Spirit was manifested, that the things were not yet made manifest, while the first tabernacle was yet standing.
Be thou strong, O Philistines, and be men; be not servants of the Hebrews, as they are unto thee: go forward to the battle without fear.
and he promoted him in Ziklag, that day; and at Ziklag, the kings of Judah unto this day.
And he smote the men of Bethshemesh, because they looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten many people with a great slaughter.
And Saul said to the counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
Then said she unto him, How can thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? these three times hast thou reproached me, and hast not told me in what is thy great might.
Behold, the days come, when I will cut off thy strength, and the strength of the house of thy father, that he may not live in thy old age.
For by one oblation he hath made perfect for ever them that are sanctified.
And David delivered all that Amalek had taken; and David gave also his two wives.
And he shall make them captains of thousands, and of fifties, and of fifties, and of fifties, and of fifties, and of hundreds; and he shall build his chariots, and build his chariots.
But Saul and the people that were with him, even the best of the flock, and the fat of the flock, and of the oxen, and of the beasts, and of all that was good, and all that was good, and that they should not utterly destroy them; but every thing that was abominable and abominable, and utterly destroyed utterly.
And he said, I have sinned: now honor me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me; and I have bowed my face unto Jehovah thy God.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the Philistines, the uncircumcised? And the son said to his father, Take her for me, for she pleaseth me well.
that when God would make it known to them that by his word should receive the inheritance, that his purpose was confirmed, he made it more certain with an oath;
And the Edomites went up from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the ascent of Akrabbim, and upward.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's house, and said unto them, and to all the house of his mother,
through being a Son, being learned by the things which he suffered,
And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And they came to the place of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they have hid themselves.
that I may prove Israel through them, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah, as their fathers kept it, or not.
and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is the glory of God.
And the wife of Gilead gave birth to sons; and when her sons were men, they sent them mad, saying, Ye have no part in the inheritance of our father's house; for thou art the son of another.
And he had seventy sons, who came out of his thigh, for he had many wives.
And Abdon the son of Jephunneh, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in the Pirathonite in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of Amalek.
And Saul and his men went to seek him; and when David was told, he went down to the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard that, and pursued David in the wilderness of Maon.
And he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that smote the firstborn should touch them.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Jehovah, saying, I have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, and have brought thee into the land which I sware unto thy fathers, saying, I will not break my covenant with you.
And it came to pass, that they had thought of that land whence they went out, that they should have had enough time to return.
Neither will I drive myself out from among the nations that Joshua hath left when he dieth:
Jehovah called unto Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
For unto the angels he put not subject the world to come, whereof we speak.
And he shall take thy daughters for a perfume, and thy daughters for burning images.
And he said, What is the thing that he hath spoken unto thee? hide thou not from me: for God doeth so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me all the words that he spake unto thee.
And they came near the Jebusites, and the day was far spent. And the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, let us return into the city of the Jebusite, and lodge there.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and made it by Dagon.
And he built Ariel there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it the Lord Jehovah unto this day, in the midst of the daughter of Abiezer.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shalt thou say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, Tomorrow ye shall be saved by the heat of the sun. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh, and they rejoiced.
And Shammah the son said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines. And he put forth all his might, and the house came down upon the princes, and upon all the people that were in it: and the dead, whom he had sent to destroy by his death, were more than all those upon whom he had destroyed his life.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come thou, reign over us.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not unto his face, and to the height of his stature; for I have cast him off: for it is not as man seeth, for man looketh at the eyes, and Jehovah looketh at the heart.
having thought that God was able to raise him up from the dead, whence he received him again.
Give ear now unto their voice; but let them reprove them, and show them the likeness of the king that shall be their prince.
And they went with the princes of Gilead, and all the people made him their prince; and they spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And it shall come to pass, when their fathers and their brethren come to us, that we may say unto them, Slay us with them, because we took not each man his wife in the war; for ye gave them not unto them, that ye should be guilty.
And the men of the guard answered Jonathan, and the armor bearer, Come up to us, and we will shew thee. And Jonathan said to his armourbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath given them into the hand of Israel.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold, which thou hast given unto him for sin; and thou shalt put them into a little vessel, at the side thereof, and send it away, that it may go.
But he went after the chariots, and went after the multitude of the nations; and all the men of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword: there was not a man left.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Amasa, and his brethren, come to Shechem, and they stir up the city against you.
So the servants of David departed, and came and told him all the words that he spake.
for it is testified, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
Therefore receive ye him in the Lord with all joy, and magnify them in the Lord.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon had made war against Israel, that the men of Gilead went to search themselves out of the land of Tob,
And Jair arose from Gilead, and he judged Israel two years.
And they told it to Jotham, and he went and stood upon the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hear you.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth into the field. And the two of them went out into the field.
And Moses indeed believed in all his house, as a servant minister, for a testimony of the things that should be spoken after.
There is none holy as Jehovah; there is none besides thee, neither is there any rock like our God.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Jehovah, let the man of God whom thou sentest unto us come again, and shew us what we should do for the child that is to come.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore get her for me to wife.
For by faith Abraham offered up Isaac; and the only child he gave up, who received the promises.
For I know that it shall be for my salvation, through prayer, and in the fulness of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul cast the spear, and said, I will smite David and the wall; but David turned away from him double.
Neither did they shew kindness unto the house of Jerubbesheth, And for all the good which he had done unto Israel.
And the five men, that went to pass through the land, go up thither: they took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate, and the six hundred men that were girded with weapons of war.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her companions, and wept upon the mountains.
And the weight of the golden rings that he asked was a thousand seven hundred gold; beside the moon, and in the black apparel, and the purple garments which were upon the kings of Midian, and besides the chains round about their camels.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and the people as the sand on the seashore; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, from Beth Aven.
Neither have they done kindness with the house of Jerubbesheth, but for all the good which he did with Israel.
And David was greatly grieved; for the people spake to stone him; for the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons, and for his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
For unto me life is Christ, and death is profitable to me.
When Jehovah raised up judges for them, then Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it grieved Jehovah for their groaning by reason of their oppressors, and troubled them.
And Samuel said, Was it not when thou wast little in thine eyes, that thou wast the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
And he shall take thy daughters as an image of incense, And shall take away thy daughters as instruments of fire.
And the wife of Gilead bore him sons: and the sons of his wife grew up, and cast them away; and they said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit the house of our father, because thou art the son of another.
And Moab was subdued in that day under the hand of Israel: and the land abode eighty years.
And he asked for water, and she gave milk; and with a drink of wine she brought butter.
O ye of Israel, that have willingly sacrificed thy soul, bless Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, A shepherd hath thy servant been to his father among the sheep: and the lion cometh and the bear, and taketh away a sheep out of the drove.
And the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? and said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found nothing in him since the day of his fall unto me to this day?
And David rose early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the wall, as the army went forth to battle, and cried for the battle.
And it came to pass, in the fifth day of the fifth day, that he arose to go away; but the young woman's father said, Keep thy strength; and the two of them had a meal, and the man and his woman and his handmaid went not unto the middle of the day.
and he returned to Ramah, for his house, and there he judged Israel; and he built there an altar to Jehovah.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
And David said unto him, But what have I done, and what hast thou found in me thy servant from the day that I have been in thy sight until this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised up a Saviour unto the children of Israel, who saved them; and Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And the hoofs of the horses were broken, and the bands of the enemies fled, and fell headlong.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day, and the father's father said, Comfort thy heart, I pray thee; and they tarried until the ninth day; and they ate both of them.
And he said unto him, Deal with me, my lord: if Jehovah be with us, why then hath all this done unto us? and where are all his marvellous works that our fathers told us, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up out of Egypt? But now Jehovah hath forsaken us, he hath given us into the hand of Midian.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why ask ye me concerning my name, seeing that it is a marvel?
And the Philistines gathered themselves together with their armies, and gathered themselves together in their tents, which belongeth to Judah, and set up between them, and encamped between them and Azekah.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth Shemesh, and stood there, where there was a great stone; and they divided the wood of the cart, and offered up the cattle for a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah hath given you into my hand this day; but I would not stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
But he despised the words of Israel, and did not let him pass through his border: but gathered an infinite multitude, and went out against him to Jasa, and prevailed against him.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Eli, the chief singer, and Phinehas died.
But now this is the thing which we will do unto Gibeah: we go by lot against it.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart faint because of him: I, thy servant, will go forth, and fight against the Philistines.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render to their heads; and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbesheth.
These all, having obtained a good report through faith, did not receive the promise.
Now therefore consider how great this man was, unto whom the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth part of the spoil.
Now know ye the proof of him, that as a son was with the father, so he ministered unto me in the glad tidings.
But this we will do in the midst of Gibeah:
Now therefore, brethren, take heed that there is no occasion in any of you a wicked heart, and unbelieving, and turning away from the living God.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And Abdon, the son of Jeroham, came to his death; and he died, and dwelt in the valley of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
For the charge which said, If the mountain is touched even by the beast, the beast is to be stoned; it is hard unto them.
Zebulun and Naphtali are a people that oppress themselves unto death in the high places of the field.
And the two of them rose before the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come out of the holes wherein they have hid themselves.
And the men of Israel were troubled that day, for Saul had commanded the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread until the evening, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted any meat.
and a great priest over the house of God,
And the men of Jabesh said, Tomorrow we will come out unto thee, and thou mayest do unto us what seemeth good to thee.
But if thou art afraid of going down, take thy servant with thee, and go down to the tents;
and the women received their dead by resurrection; and others were tormented, not receiving their salvation, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
that your joy may abound in Christ Jesus in my presence with you.
And the ambush hasted, and fell upon Gibeah; and the ambush drew near, and smote the whole city with the edge of the sword.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and he oppressed the children of Israel twenty years.
By faith we have received that the world should be made according to the word of God, that that which is seen should not come forth from the things that appear.
And David went from there to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother come out with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
God, after that long ago spake unto the fathers through the prophets many times and divers ways,
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who gave authority unto Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; before Jehovah your way in which ye go.
Do all things without murmuring and doubting;
Now therefore consider how great this man is, to whom also Abraham the father gave tithes of the goodly things.
And Saul heard that David was found, and the men that were with him; and Saul sat in Gibeah, under the oak in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood round about him.
And she took thick bands, and bound him with them, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the ambush is in an inner chamber; and he breaketh them from off his arms as a thread.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand; and they smote them in the field ten thousand men.
for your proving the things which are excellent, that ye may be pure and peaceable, until the day of Christ;
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some went into it; and they that first received the gospel did not come in, because they obeyed not the word.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what have I to do with thee? And when he spake, they were with him.
My hand shall not be stretched out against the man that sitteth with the holy oil; but thou shalt take the spear upon his head and the pitcher, and let us go.
And when they forgat Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
We have an altar from which they that serve the sanctuary have no right to eat.
And now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not; neither was there any thought to them, all the days that they were in Carmel.
And the weight of the king's request was a thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the jewels, and jewels, and raiment, which the kings of Midian went to use, and besides the golden chains that were round about the camels.
And all the people went into a forest, in which there was honey upon the ground.
And David said unto his servants, Gird ye on every man his sword; and they girded every man his sword; and David girded with his sword; and David went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred souls by the vessels.
And it came to pass, when they were come to pass, that they waited, and passed over the stone, and fled to the den.
But now they desire to say, There is a heaven in heaven. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
And the Spirit of God prevailed over Saul, when he heard these words, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
And of them that are of them, whose blood shall be offered unto the most holy priest, the most holy priest shall be burned without the camp.
that we may be as the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us to war.
and Jehovah will deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me; and Jehovah will deliver the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
Let the brotherly love abide.
And they took away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and could no more bear the affliction of Israel.
And he said, Bring hither unto me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered up the burnt-offering.
And the men of Israel said unto Benjamin, Rule thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Maon have oppressed you, and ye cry unto me; and I save you out of their hand.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning, and slew the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass that they that remained were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they slew the Canaanites that dwelt therein, and utterly destroyed it; and they called the name of the city Hormah.
Now therefore take heed to yourselves that neither wine nor strong drink, neither take any unclean thing for food;
and they remembered Jehovah their God, and sold them into the hand of Sisera, the head of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
She also desired for water, and gave him milk; And she brought butter before him upon his face.
And Israel came up from thence, and went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And his three sons went after him to the battle: and the name of his three sons that went out to war was Eliab the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and the third Shammah.
Now therefore beware, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing.
Neither was the priesthood of the people unto the people: but whosoever offered a sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, and the flesh was in water, with a hook of three teeth in his hand.
This is yet more excellent, if after the similitude of Melchizedek there is a priest,
And he said, I have sinned: but now honor me before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And it came to pass, when they blew the three hundred trumpets, that Jehovah set the sword of every man against his neighbour throughout all the camp; and the camp fled as far as the border of Beth-Arabah, unto Abel the Meholathite, the border by bath.
And above it were the cherubims of glory with their wings covering the mercy-seat; and they were not able to speak in writing.
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise upon his sword, and died with him.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchishua, and the names of his two daughters: and the name of the firstborn was Michal, and the younger Michal.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that ordained Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And when they came to Micah's house, they took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, and the priest asked them, saying, What doest thou?
and there shall be no more an old man in thy house.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a Levite, who dwelt in the hill-country of Ephraim, took him a concubine out of Bethlehem.
Now when Samuel was old, he made judges over Israel.
And Bela went down to Gaza; and there he saw a harlot, and lay with her.
And it came to pass at the time when Hagar the daughter of Saul was to be given unto David, that she was given to him, and she was given unto him the Meholathite.
And Jehovah heard the prayer of man; and the angel of Jehovah appeareth again to his wife, as she sat in the field: but man was not with her, and she saw the angel.
And ten thousand chosen out of all Israel came over against Gibeah, and the battle was sore; but they knew not that evil was near them.
And he had thirty sons; and he sent thirty daughters out of the house, and thirty daughters of his sons; and he judged Israel seven years.
And there arose after him Jair the Gileadite, and he judgeth Israel twenty years.
And she took the girdle, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, O Philistines; and he awaked out of his sleep, and went forth with the hammer of the weaver, and with the band.
And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and said unto him, Let me pass through thy land unto the river.
But if ye be without warning, of which all are partakers of all men, ye are to be contentious, and not sons.
For the word of God is swift, and strong, and small in number, than every one that hath a two-edged sword, even unto the dividing of soul and of the spirit, and of the marrow and the marrow, and of the thoughts and of the heart.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she urged him to ask her father for a field. And she alighted from the ass, and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Abide not in the hold, depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Haran.
And he trusted all things unto her; and he said unto her, A razor hath not touched my head, for I am a Nazarite of God: if I cut off my strength from me, I shall be as all men.
Jesus Christ both yesterday and this day and ever.
And David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of the mountain afar off; and there was a great space between them.
And my father, see, and behold the hem of thine robe in mine hand, and cut off the skirt of thy robe, and I have not slain thee, know, and see that there is not in my hand wickedness and transgression, and I have not sinned against thee, and thou shalt hunt my soul.
And he went to Ramah, and came to the great well that was in the field; and he said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are in Ramah.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye turn unto Jehovah with all your heart, put away the strange gods out of the midst of you, and the Baalim and Ashtaroth; and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Jehovah chose new wars; and he overthrew the gates of the enemies: the shield and the spear were not seen among forty thousand of Israel.
Take heed therefore, brethren, lest perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief, in falling from the living God.
And most of the brethren, trust in the Lord for my chain, even more to speak the word without fear.
For the son of Jesse is in the earth, and thy throne is in danger, and thy kingdom is in danger: therefore make him come hither unto me: for he shall surely die.
All things are necessary for the present to be not glad but grievous; but afterward it bringeth the peace of peace to those that have been exercised thereby.
And David said unto his servants, Gird ye on every man his sword; and they girded every man his sword; and David girded with his sword; and David went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred men with them.
And they took their bones, and buried them under the tamarisk in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And the women answered, and said, Saul hath smitten among his thousands, and David among his myriads.
And Micah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver, and a request of garments, and thy provision. And the Levites went in.
And Samuel said, Whereas thou wast little in thine own eyes, wast not thou made the head of the tribes of Israel? Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel:
And God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and more than the natural powers, and by the gift of the Holy Spirit at his pleasure.
and, behold, they saw an old man coming out of the field, and from his work in the evening, and he also was of mount Ephraim, and dwelt as a sojourner in Gibeah; but the men of that country were the children of Shelah.
Gilead is beyond the Jordan, and Dan, and Dan: why doth he sojourn in ships? Asher hath dwelt at the haven of the seas, and by his habitation doth tabernacle.
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the temple with the mouse, and the molten images, and the molten images.
So the first came up against Jonathan, and his armor, and slew twenty men in the field, in the field of the field.
And the people told him according to this manner, saying, Thus shall it be done to the man that smiteth him.
Wherefore we ought to keep the things which we have heard, lest we should let them slip.
So they sent and gathered together all the rulers of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return to its place, that it may not be the cause of death to us and our people: for there was a great fear throughout all the city: and the hand of God was very hard upon them there.
And they took hold of him, and bound him with them; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and Jonathan the son. And the ambush was sitting in a chamber, and he broke them from his bosom.
And Saul said unto him, O young man, of what art thou? And David said, I am the son of thy handmaid, the son of Haran.
And now, this is the thing which we do unto Gibeah, against it by lot.
He chooseth new gods, and war at the gates; A shield is not seen, and a spear among forty thousand in Israel.
and above the mercy-seat of the glory of the glory which we can not speak.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this band? And he said, If thou wilt give me thy oath, that thou wilt not kill me, or give me up to my master, I will bring thee unto them.
that I might have confidence in the flesh: if any man think to put confidence in the flesh, I can do so more:
And he was asked by him whence he came. And he answered, I am a Levite of Bethlehem, and I go to dwell where I can, and where I find a place for my advantage.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold him into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
For the law, which hath a shadow of the good things which are about to come, not the fashion of things itself, is not able year by year by means of the same sacrifice, to make perfect those that draw near.
For ye know that afterward, when he would receive the blessing, was cast away, because he found not a cause for repentance, though he sought it with tears.
And Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went, and made Abimelech king by the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
Now there was a sign between the men of Israel and the ambush, that they should make a cloud of smoke up out of the city.
And Nathan said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And David took all the flocks and herds, and drove them before the cattle, and said, This is the spoil of David.
from whence also he is able to save unto the very end those coming by him unto God, to make intercession for them.
And they circumcised on the eighth day, of the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born out of the Hebrews, according to the law of the law.
And the priest shall give unto him the holy thing; for there was no bread there except the bread of the presence of the presence of Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day of his departure.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, ye shall not send it empty: ye shall return unto him a trespass offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not removed from you.
The river of the river, the brook of the brook, tossed them away, The valley of the brook of Gaash; Come, be my soul, with strength.
and they asked of thee of peace, and gave thee two loaves, and thou hast received from their hand.
And Saul said unto his servant, Come, let us go. And they went into the city of the man of God.
When Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought out your fathers out of Egypt, and cause them to dwell in this place.
Now now Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath cast out the Amorite before his people Israel, and shall ye possess it?
And when it was evening, they saw an old man coming from his work in the field; and he was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamin.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah will do to my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall appoint thee ruler over Israel;
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the captain of the host was Sisera, who dwelt in the hill country.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, and said, Wilt thou not answer Abner? And Abner answered, Who art thou, that criest, and trembleth the king?
If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But now this is the thing which we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up against it by lot.
And she said, Alas, my lord, my lord, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee, praying unto Jehovah.
and like a garment thou shalt roll them up, and as a garment they shall be changed; but thou art the same, and thy years shall not run out.
And when they were come to the land of Suph, Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us return, lest my father forget the asses, and seek us.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose for him five smooth stones from the brook, and put them in the shepherds' bosom, that he had, even in the bag, and his sling in his hand, and he drew near unto the Philistines.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared not unto man, and to his wife; and Adam knew that he was a messenger of Jehovah.
For thou hast pity on them that were in prison, and have rejoiced in the loss of thy inheritance, in the knowledge that thou hast attained unto thee, and that thou shouldest keep it for ever.
For it is God, that is the cause of thy desire and of thy works, for his good pleasure.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and they gathered after him; and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
Let not my blood fall to the ground from the presence of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is gone out to seek a piece of iron, as the partridge taketh in the mountains.
So David went, and he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the river country, and those that were left behind.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and put out the heart of Jehovah their God, and became servants unto Baal, and to Ashtaroth.
And every priest shall stand continually daily, and every one shall offer the same sacrifices, which can not take away sin.
And she said unto him, Give me a gift, and thou hast given me the land of the south, and give me also a well of water. And Caleb gave her the upper and lower spring.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and he rent him, as he would have rent a kid, and had nothing in his hand: but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the children of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And Japhlet the Gileadite was a mighty man, and he was the son of a harlot: and Gilead begat Japhlet.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together to the city.
And Jehovah called unto Samuel, and said, Here am I.
Go and cry unto the gods that ye have chosen; They will deliver thee in the time of thy trouble.
And the king sat upon his throne, as long as at a seat by the wall; and Jonathan rose, and Abner sat at the side of Saul; and David's place was turned after David.
and when I saw that ye would not save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hand: why then come ye up to me this day, to fight against me?
And the people spake unto him according to this word, saying, Thus shall it be done to the man that smiteth him.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And he spake again, and said, Behold, men are coming down by the midst of the earth, and one company shall come by the way of the oak of the island.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and lay thine hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a house in Israel?
And the day after the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David was with his hand as at other times; and Saul held a spear in his hand.
And Jehovah said, Go up, Judah; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives, according to their number, of those that were before them; and they went and returned to their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of the wise, which he sent him.
that I might have knowledge of him, and of the power of his coming from the dead, and a part with him in his pain, as in his death.
Though he was begotten, he learned from the things which he suffered;
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah for the Midianites,
And the border of the Philistines went out unto Michmash.
having therefore therefore, brethren, bold to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
But it came to pass in the morning, when the sister of Nabal was grieved in his wine, that his wife spake unto him these words, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And he said, I will cause Amalek the king of Amalek to come unto me. And Agag said unto him, Surely the bitterness of death is over.
And it shall be in the morning when the sun is up, thou shalt rise early and fall upon the city; and, behold, he and the people that are with him shall come out against thee, and thou shalt do with him as thou shalt find occasion.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and his armor after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armourbearer slew after him.
And the child Samuel grew on, and was in grace with the Lord, and also with men.
Blessed be he more than all the women; Blessed is more than all in the tabernacles.
And she sent and called and called the son of Beeri, the son of Beeri, out of the land of Naphtali, and said unto him, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath commanded thee: Go and bring an army to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun:
But of doing good and exhortation, be not ignorant; for God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
And the young men of David came in, and spake unto the Carmelite according to all these words, in the name of David.
And it came to pass, when the woman's concubine had pity on him, that she left him, and went to the house of her father, to Bethlehem; and she was there four months.
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his wife, and sent her out unto them; and they took her by force, by reason of her accord all night till the morning: and when the morning had come, they let her go.
And the five men went forward, and they saw how the people dwelt in it without fear, according to the custom of the Zidonians, and in ease, and in ease, having no man to withstand them, being very rich, and alive, afar off from Sidon, and from all men.
But I will speak nothing of my needs; for I am able, whither I am.
And Jehovah called to name Samuel the third time, and he arose, and went to Eli, and said, Here am I, for thou hast called for me; and, Eli, that Jehovah calleth to the lad.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah hath sent me to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: therefore hear thou the voice of Jehovah.
And Samuel said, What is this that I hear of sheep in mine ears, and the voice of oxen which I hear?
And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were again again unto Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and Israel recovered the border out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And the princes of the Philistines passed over with hundreds, and with thousands; and David, and his men, passed behind.
Now therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise unto God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips thanksgiving to his name.
And Saul yet was the more afraid of David; and Saul became the enemy of David continually.
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of the words, which they heard, besought that they should not speak any more word unto them.
And the men did so, and took two oxen, and bound them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And David said, Behold the spear, O king; and let one of the young men arise, and get it.
For the rest, brethren, whatsoever is perfect, whatsoever things are, whatsoever things are lawful, whatsoever things soever are well-pleasing, whatsoever things soever are able to do, whatsoever is good, or any good thing, or any praise, be in these things.
And truly, if they had been mindful of that land whence they came from, they might have opportunity to have returned.
And the children of Israel sent men throughout all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What is this wickedness that is among you?
I will shoot three arrows upon his side, As I have shot at a mark.
They that strive with Jehovah shall be broken; in the heavens he shall thunder upon them; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; and he will give strength unto his king, and shall exalt the horn of his anointed.
And he caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, and the family of the redeemed: and Saul the son of Kish was taken; and they sought him, but was not found.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised them up a saviour, and Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left with him. And the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon unto Eglon.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and in those days the tribe of the children of Dan sought an inheritance to dwell in; for to that day their inheritance fell not unto them among the tribes of Israel.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my new wine, and make God glad, and man, and go and lift up the trees?
And he answered them, I, because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of the land of Egypt, from the border of the Arnon unto the river, and the Jordan: now therefore restore the same peaceably unto me.
And he gathered together an army, and smote Amalek, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that spoiled them.
And the men of Israel that were beyond the valley, and beyond the Jordan, saw that the children of Israel had fled; and that Saul was dead, and his sons, and left their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt there.
And he sware unto David. And David said, Thy father knoweth that I have found grace in thy sight, and he will say, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, there is only one step, even as I say, between me and me.
Thy servant smote the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistines shall be as one of them, because he hath defied the hosts of the living God.
And we desire that every one of you should shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end:
And it came to pass, when Samuel heard all the people, that all the people should say unto Jehovah,
And he went about to pass through the circuit of the year to Bethel, to Gilgal, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places.
All these were dead in faith, and not having received the promises, but seeing them afar off, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
For it is none of them that lay hold, but of Abraham it layeth hold.
And David rose up, and he and his men went, and smote two hundred men of the Philistines; and David brought their foreskins, and they brought the full number to be the king's son-in-law; and Saul gave him Michal his daughter as his wife.
And the Philistines drew nigh, morning and evening, and stood forty days.
And the wife of Jehoiada the wife wept before him, and said, Thou hast hated me, and hast not loved me: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told it. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father or my mother, and I tell it thee.
There is no thing hidden from his eyes; but all things are naked, and lay open before the eyes of him to whom we must give an account.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, David spake thus.
For Jehovah liveth, who is saved Israel: surely if it be in Jonathan my son, surely surely he shall surely die; and none shall answer him out of all the people.
Why did ye not hear the voice of Jehovah, and fall with the spoil? ye have done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren and barren: but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his coast: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah: do unto me according to that which goeth forth out of thy mouth; for Jehovah hath avenged thee upon thine enemies, the children of Ammon.
And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They are always estranged in their heart; and they know not my ways.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the plains of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered no man to pass over.
by a new and living way which he hath sanctified for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh.
And he went to the house of his father in Ophrah, and put his brethren, the seventy men of war, to death on the same stone; but Jotham, the youngest, kept himself in a secret place.
Cursed thou thyself, saith the angel of Jehovah, curse ye the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
And Samuel said, Bring ye near unto me the king of Amalek, the king of Amalek. And Agag came to him, and said, Surely the bitterness of death is turned aside.
And her other women provoked her to drink; for Jehovah shut up her womb.
by which shall we be sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I shall not fail to eat with the king: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third day.
and to those that were in Hormah, and unto the inhabitants of Pathros, and unto those that were in war,
And when the people saw the people, he said unto the Amalekite, Behold, a multitude cometh down from the mountains. And he said unto him, Thou seest the shadows of the mountains, as if they were the heads of men, and this is thy mistake.
And he turned a little from him to another, and said the same word. And the people answered him as before.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, the firstborn of Michal the daughter of Michal, whom I will give thee for thy wife: only be strong for me, and fight in the name of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let it not be by me that his way come to him, but through the Philistines.
and the peace of God, which passeth through all understanding, shall keep your hearts and mind through Christ Jesus.
And Saul returned from pursuing David, and went up against the Philistines; and they called the name of that place the name of Sela.
And the people sent unto Shiloh, and took the ark of Jehovah of hosts, whose habitation was between the cherubim, and the Levites, and the Levites, and the ark, with the ark of the covenant of God.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest. Is it better for thee to be a priest for the house of one man, or to be priest for a tribe, and for a house in Israel?
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up in the assembly unto Jehovah? For they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do unto us therefore as thou seest; save us this day.
For the rest, brethren, all things are true, whatever is honorable, whatsoever is honorable, whatever is holy, or that which is comely, whether there be any of them, if there be any profit, if any man be able to be praised in such things.
And they said unto the children of Benjamin, Go into the vineyards, and tarry there.
But to do good and to divide not forget; For God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
Thou shalt not count thy handmaid for one of the daughters of Belial: For out of the abundance of my sorrow and vexation have I spoken until now.
And he smote it into the pan, and the pot, and the pot, and the pot, and the pot; and the priest took all that the hand of Jehovah brought up; and they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came there.
and thou shalt see thy marvellous in the temple, in all the prosperity of Israel; and there shall not be a man old in thy house for ever.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and took her ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed himself to the ground.
And the people came to Bethel, and dwelt there until the evening before God; and they lifted up their voice, and wept, and wept bitterly.
Now the children of Israel had given a sign unto them, whom they had laid in ambush, that after they had taken the city, they should make a fire: that by the smoke rising up they might shew that the city was taken.
For we have not a high priest that can not grieve with our infirmities, but who is tempted in all things, without sin.
And Samuel took a stone, and set between Mizpah and brimstone, and called his name Ezer, saying, Hitherto hath Jehovah helped us.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and with him three thousand men, chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And the man said, Now let thy words come to pass: how shall we command the child, and how shall we do unto him?
And his father went down to the woman, and Jehiel the son prepared a feast, as young men were wont to do this.
Awake, awake, aha; awake, awake, and utter a song; arise, awake, and take away thy captivity, the Son of Abinadab.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto Tekoah, Because Israel took my land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and the Jordan, when they came up out of the land of Egypt, then restore it peace.
And they rose early in the morning, and Dagon fell upon the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off upon the threshold, and the base was in its place.
Go now, and take more steps, and see where he dwelleth; for they say, that he is skilful in deceit.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the temple, and made them sit in the uppermost place among them that were invited, who were about thirty souls.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, and two thousand with Saul in Michmash, and in mount Bethel; and a thousand and Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin, and the rest of the people he sent back every man to their tents.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his spear weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and his armor went before him.
And when Saul was told that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand: for he is shut by entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
And I will bring unto thee in the place of the valley, the son of Gad, the captain of the army of Jabin, and his chariots, and all his multitude, and will deliver them into thy hand.
And they gave unto him seventy shekels of silver out of the house of Baal, with which Abimelech took the support of a man of rebellion and of evil persons.
And Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these.
And the people took the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and oxen, and slew them on the ground, and devoured them with the blood.
Is not this David, to whom they sang in their dance, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, that through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah the God of Israel is my witness, that I will ask my father by this time the day after to-morrow: and behold, if he be well disposed toward thee, will I not send word unto thee, and will I tell thee?
And if ye live in the flesh to me a fruit of work, what shall I choose? I know not.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, How is it that thou askest my name, seeing it is wonderful?
And David said unto Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch out his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
And he took it into his hands, and he went on, and ate it as he went; and he went to his father and mother, and gave them to them, and they did eat it: but he told them not that he had eaten the honey from the flesh of the lion.
and all that generation have been gathered unto their fathers, and another generation rose after them that have not known Jehovah, and even the work which he hath done unto Israel.
And he sent to Abimelech, and said, Behold, Shechem the son of Shelemiah, and his brethren, come to Shechem; and they have fought against you.
and that most of the brethren in the Lord, being confident in my bonds, are more abundantly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
And David arose, and passed over, and six hundred men that were with him, to Urijah the son of Arioch king of Gath.
And Samuel rose, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin; and he numbered the men that were present with him, about six hundred men.
And it is expedient for you to be teachers, but ye have need of one to teach, and to teach the uncircumcision, and to drink milk, and not of solid food.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, and upon thy two sons, and upon Phinehas: in one day they shall both die.
And he shall take one tenth of thy flock, and thou shalt be his servants.
And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me pass through thy land; but he would not go down to his request; but he sent also to the king of Moab, who did not give him passage. And he abode in Kadesh.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah.
And the wife of Jehoiada the wife wept before him, and said, Thou hast hated me, and hast loved me not: thou hast made a figure for the children of my people, and hast not told me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have told her not, nor my mother, and I will tell thee it.
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, but the fashion of the true; but to heaven, to appear before God for us.
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah, who made Moses and Aaron, and who brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
and it came to pass, when their fathers and their brethren came to us to plead with us, that we said unto them, Have mercy on us, for we have not taken every man his wife in battle; for ye have not given unto them at this time ye are guilty.
And Saul and the men of Israel gathered themselves together, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And the Philistines prevailed, and went not again into the land of Israel: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
and others were mocked and scourged, and in addition to chains and chains.
If he is able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then thou shalt be our servants, and serve us.
Go not away till I come with my offering, and put it before thee. And he said, I will not go away from before thee.
Why do ye despise my sacrifices, and my offering, which I commanded for my dwelling place, while ye have exalted your sons more than me, and have made yourselves fat from the fat of all the offerings of my people Israel?
And David said, Thou shalt not do so, my brethren, with these things, which Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us, and hath delivered the robbers that went up into our hands.
And David smote the land, and did not leave a man, nor a woman alive; and he took the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the raiment: and he returned, and came to his place.
But stay in the flesh more necessary for your sakes.
And when Abiathar the son of Chenaanah had fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
He gathered the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of palm-trees.
And she sent and called for the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, the son of Beeri, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded? Go, and go upon mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men, from the children of Naphtali, and out of the sons of Zebulun.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take thy brethren an ephah of barley, and these ten loaves of bread, and bring them quickly to the camp for your brethren.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went into his house; and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will give them into thy hand.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer, and all his men that same day.
For if the word spake through angels, and all disobedience and transgression have received a righteous reward,
and that I may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which is according to law, but that which is by faith of Christ, the righteousness of God through faith,
And when they went into the house of Micah, they took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image, and said unto them, What doest thou?
Gilead dwelt on the other side of the Jordan: Wherefore did Dan dwell in ships? And Asher sat at the haven of the sea, And dwelt by his secret.
In these days hath spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed to inherit all things, by whom also he made the world.
And she answered and said, Not so, my lord: for I am a very bitter woman, and drunk neither wine nor wine, but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And thou shalt cry in that day out of the presence of the king, whom thou hast chosen unto thyself; and Jehovah will not hear thee in that day, because thou saidst unto yourselves a king.
and he that was made a little less than the angels, because of the sufferings of the death, with glory and glory, that by the grace of God for every man he should taste death.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, These words have David spoken.
And David said unto Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me:
And David enquired of Jehovah, saying, If I pursue this troop, will I overtake them? And he said unto him, Go after me; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and shalt not recover.
And he is the mediator of the new covenant, that by his death, for the redemption of the transgressions, which were under the former covenant, those that are called shall receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
And the sons of Dan: Zorah, and Eshtaol, and six hundred men armed with war.
And when she saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he hath told me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and brought the money in their hand.
not to your own eyes, but to each of them.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have heard thy voice in all that thou hast said unto me, and have made a king over you.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way that Jehovah hath sent me, and have brought down Amalek the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed Amalek.
And the flame rose up out of the city with a pillar of smoke; and Benjamin looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.
And Micah appointed the Levites, and the young man became a priest unto him; and he was in the house of Micah.
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his weapons, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to preach tidings the house of their idols, and the people.
And Jabez went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn, my lord, turn in unto me; fear not; and he turned into the tent, and covered him with the vinegar.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Have ye seen him whom Jehovah hath chosen, for there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Let the king live.
I have not sinned against thee; but thou, O Jehovah, art the judge, judge this day between the children of Israel, and the children of Ammon.
And these are the golden vessels which the Philistines returned for a trespass offering unto Jehovah: one for Ashdod, one, and Ashkelon, one, and Gath, one;
For though at this time be teachers, ye need to be teachers of the first doctrine of God's revelations: ye have lacked milk, and not solid food.
And let them be turned away, that their hearts may not be renewed a second time; for they themselves have laid the Son of God on the cross, shewing them openly.
For this man is counted worthy of greater glory than Moses; forasmuch as he that exalteth it is greater than the house.
For yet a very very little, he that cometh shall come, and shall not tarry.
So David and the six hundred men that were with him went over to Urijah the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bore his armor, Come, and let us go over to the camp of these uncircumcised men; perhaps Jehovah will do for us; for there is no restraint to Jehovah to save by many or few.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and weep my virginity, I and my companions.
And David and all that were with him wept, and wept, and wept no more.
And they were stoned, and were cast asunder, they were slain with the sword: they wandered about in rams' skins, and of badgers' skins; and they were poor, and afflicted, and afflicted.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that seek a king from him.
Wherefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I said indeed, that thy house and the house of thy father should serve before me for ever; but now saith Jehovah: No be this from me: but whosoever shall glorify me, he will I glorify: but they that hate me shall be despised.
And he went down, and spake unto the woman, and she was right in the eyes of Jonathan.
Then said the Lord God, Bring hither to me the king of Amalek, the king of the Amalekites. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And they inquired, and sought; and they say, Hew this thing on the throne of Joash.
And they told Jotham, and he went and stood upon the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and called, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, O ye masters of Shechem, and God will hearken unto you.
And the little part of the valley were reaped up wheat in the valley; and lifting up their eyes, they saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
Jehovah therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.
Ye that ride upon white asses, and sit in carpets, and ye that walk by the way, consider.
And when this was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied; and he sent messengers the third time, and they prophesied also. And Saul was very wroth.
And in this place shall they not enter into my rest.
But if they say, Come up to us, and let us go up, for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hands; this shall be a sign unto us.
and bring these ten sticks unto the captain of their thousand, and see how your brethren do, and bring tidings.
And the children of Dan were cast into the hill-country by the Amorites, who would not let them go down into the valley;
And the five men, that before had been sent before the land, said unto the rest of their brethren, Ye know that in these houses there is an ephod, and a graven image, and a molten god; see what thou art pleased.
And it came to pass, when they rose early in the morning, that they rose early in the morning, and Dagon fell before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon, and the head of his two hands, were cut off, lying by the threshold; and the body of Dagon was left.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Go unto Jehovah our God, to save us from the hand of the Philistines.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go away? And let Jehovah reward you good for what thou hast done unto me this day.
And we, having so many a cloud of witnesses over our head, laid aside every weight and sin which is round about us, let us run by patience unto the fight that is in us.
And he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service with the blood.
And when they came thither to the mountain, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And thou shalt not possess the way of thy god Chemosh, which he gave thee to possess: he that Jehovah our God hath driven out before us, we will possess it.
to be teachers, because of the present time, that ye have need to teach you what the elements of the beginning of God, and ye have lacked milk, and not of strong food;
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, Upon this I will deal with you, and I will put out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
And the army of the Philistines went out, and went up to Hazeroth.
And the children of Zebulun: Kedesh and Naphtali: Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet; and Deborah went up with him.
And she fell down at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, be wicked: let thy handmaid speak unto thee, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And they told to Sisera the son of Abinadab, and they went up to mount Tabor.
Whereupon neither was the first devoted unto blood.
For there shall be the last and the covenant; there must be the death of him that made it.
And Jobab and Malchiel fled, and pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and all the host of Midian.
Forasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this, judgment;
And he shall take thy daughters to the perfumer, and his daughters with fire, and the baker of thy daughters.
And now beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing unclean.
And thou shalt say unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak, but this time I will speak: I pray thee, but this time with the fleece of the fleece: let it be dried up upon the wool, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
And the border went out toward the north, toward the north, and toward the south, and toward the south southward.
Jehovah raiseth up judges, And delivereth them out of the hand of them that despoil them.
And Abimelech and the companies that were with him went forward, and stood in the entry of the gate of the city; and two of the companies ran upon all that were in the field, and slew them.
What then? nay, in every way, in truth, or in truth, the preaching of Christ; and in this I rejoice, and shall be glad.
And Samuel rose early to meet him in the morning; and he was told, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set up a pillar for himself, and turned, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with staves? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of the field, with the children of Judah the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And the voice of my prayer was for this child; And Jehovah answered me, saying,
And his concubine bare him a son; and he called his name Abimelech.
But I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation; for it is but in few words that I write unto you.
And there remained the stump of Dagon in its place: for this cause did not make the priests of Dagon, nor any that went into the house of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
So David smote the Philistines with a sling, and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the sheaf of life with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies shall he sling, as out of the midst of a sling.
And the son of Amasa said, Who is Abimelech, and whom we serve him? is not the son of Jerubbesheth? is not the son of Jerubbesheth? serve ye the men of Hamor father of Shechem; and why do we serve him?
And the young men returned, and went and told him all that he had said.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Weep not to Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgot Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And the house of Joseph made a search to Beth-el; and the name of the city was called Luz.
And David rose up, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king: and when Saul looked behind him, David bowed himself with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath taken possession of their land out of the hand of the Amorites, and hath given it unto his people Israel: are ye then to possess it?
So they went on their way; and the sun came down, when they were at Gibeah in the land of Benjamin.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, The blessing of Jehovah be with thee: I have done what was commanded by Jehovah.
And the child Samuel grew in stature, and in favour with the Lord, and with the people.
And the woman had in the house a heifer, made fat for food; and she put it to death, and she took flour, and fetched it mingled, and made unleavened bread.
And they rose early the next day, and built an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, and they said,
Through him we also may offer a sacrifice of praise to God always, that is, the fruit of lips, giving thanks to his name.
Therefore when he came into the world, he said, Sacrifice and offering ye did not want, but a body ye prepared for me;
And Saul said nothing that day; for he thought, that it hath come to pass, that he is not clean: surely he is not clean.
And the strength of Israel shall not lie nor repent: for he is not a man, that he should repent.
For who was it, who heard it, and did not all come out of Egypt by Moses?
And the women answered one another, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And they said unto them, I and my people were in danger, and the children of Ammon were cruel unto us; and I sent unto you, and thou gavest me no help against them.
being ordained by God, a high priest, according to the order of Melchizedek.
Now therefore return, and go in peace, that ye displease not the lords of the Philistines.
And Saul gave Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of David, to Palti the son of Laish.
But walk in the fear of Jehovah, and be faithful unto him with all your heart, according to all that he hath done unto thee.
and came to his house, and took the knife, and lay hold on his concubine, and cut her in pieces to her bones, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, ``Bring near unto me, I pray thee, the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod near unto David.
And he sent for David, and said unto him, By the living Lord, thou art perfect, and all that thou hast done with me in the army: I have seen no evil in thee from the day that ye came unto me until now; but still, the lords are not pleased with thee.
And all the evil and wicked man of the men that went with David answered, and said, Because they have not gone with us, we will not give to them of the spoil which we have delivered, save every man his wife, and his children, and go away and go.
And after whom did the king of Israel go out? and after whom are ye pursuing me? and after a dead dog, as it were a lie?
and that it was better to suffer pain with the saints, than for a little while to have a taste of the pleasures of sin.
And David and his people dwelt with him in Gath; and every man had his house with him; and David had two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Carmel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, The Lord hath sent me to anoint thee, and to make thee king over his people, over Israel: therefore hear the words of Jehovah.
And as for thy asses that were lost three days ago, set not thine heart upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he sware; and she knew no man: and it was a custom in Israel.
And he took the kid of the goats with the meal-offering, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah, who did strange things.
And Saul encamped in the wilderness of Adullam, which was over the wilderness; and David abode in the wilderness. And when Saul saw that Saul was come after him into the wilderness,
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with the sword, and with the spear, and with the javelin; but I came unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, whom thou hast reproached.
Now therefore give up the wicked in Gibeah, that we may slay them, and purge away the evil from Israel; but the children of Benjamin would not hear the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
And David reproved his men with the words, and did not let them rise up against Saul. And Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered our enemies the Moabites into our hands. And they went down after him, and took on the fords of the Jordan, which are in the way of Moab; and they suffered no man to pass over.
And David came to Saul, and waited before him; and he was very dear unto Saul, who made him his servant, and gave him the care of his hands.
And the child went out, and David rose from the south side; and he fell on his face to the ground, and fell three times; and they kissed one another, and wept together; but David wept the most.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it, and gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
Neither is the lamp of God put out, and Samuel lieth down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God.
And apart from all controversy, the less by the better is blessed.
Have they not found, have they not divided the prey? a maid, two women to every man, to Sisera a prey of fine garments, a spoil of dyed garments, of dyed garments of woven garments, on both sides of the prey?
Be not carried away by divers and strange law; for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not by bread, through which they that were in labor were not good.
Now therefore let our lord command thy servants, which are before thee, to seek out a man, who is a cunning workman upon the harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit of God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And the five men went, and came to Laish; and they saw the people that dwelt according to the customs of the Zidonians, and quiet, and easy, and lacked nothing in the land, and possessed them; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no word with any man.
For the law hath a shadow of the coming good, not the same lump of things, by the same oblation, by the same sacrifice which they offer continually, is not able to make perfect those coming nigh,
And he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of that land, and slew them not.
And it shall come to pass, that ye shall go forth from thence, and come unto the oak of Tabor: and three men shall go up to the God of Bethel, one bearing three kids of goats, and three loaves of bread, and one bearing a bottle of wine.
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels, even Jesus, crowned with glory and glory, that he should die, that he might suffer death for all men.
And Michal let David down through a window, and he went and fled, and fled.
And he had thirty sons and daughters, whom he sent abroad, and gave to husbands, and took wives for his sons, and brought them into his house; and he judged Israel seven years.
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah be pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a sacrifice at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor should he at this time have told us this.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field, which was also from the hill-country of Ephraim; and he dwelt in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamin.
And David's two wives were Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
But I beseech you more to do this, that I may be returned unto you shortly.
And David sware, and said, Thy father knoweth that I have found grace in thine eyes; and he saith, Let Jonathan not know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is only a step between me and death.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, And lifteth up the needy from the dunghill, To make them sit with princes, And possess the throne of glory; For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's; He hath set the world upon them.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, when thou didst go forth out of the fields of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, and the skies dropped water.
And the man was not willing to lodge all night; and he arose, and went, and came in unto Jebus, which is Jerusalem, and with him a couple of asses saddled, and his concubine with him.
And the thorns say unto the trees, If in truth ye have anointed me for king over you, come, take refuge in my shadow; and if not, fire cometh out of the thorns, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And he spake also to the men of Peniel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
And they perceived the voice of the young man the Levite, and lodged with him, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? what do thou come hither? why camest thou hither?
And he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistines; and Jehovah brought about a great victory for all Israel, and ye saw it and rejoiced. Now therefore why should ye sin against innocent blood, by killing David without cause?
And Jonathan said unto him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be left; for thy throne shall be desolate.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
And Jesus also suffered without the gate, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood.
And Abimelech was told that all the masters of the tower of Shechem were gathered together,
I pursue the mark of God for the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, when thou comest to pass, that a man told his friend a dream, saying, Behold, I had a dream of barley bread, which fell into the tents of Midian, and passed into the tent, and smote it, and it was stretched out upon the earth.
and see, if it go up by the way of his own border to Beth Shemesh, it is he that hath done us great evil: if not, then shall we know that it is not his hand that touched us; it was a matter to us.
How much more if the people have willingly taken their prey of the spoil of them that fight against them? shall not there be a great destruction among the Philistines?
and that the reproach of Christ is greater than the treasures of Egypt; for he sought the reward.
And David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines; and Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
Cast not away your confidence, which hath great reward.
And the elders said, What shall we do with the rest, that have not received wives? for all the women of Benjamin are dead.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not upon his face, nor on the height of his stature; because I have cast him off, for it is not as man seeth: for man looketh upon the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day to the fowl of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; and all the earth shall know that Israel hath a God.
I thank my God in all memory of you,
Whithersoever them went forth, the hand of Jehovah was upon them for evil, as Jehovah had said; and as Jehovah had sworn unto them, and they were greatly grieved.
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, and went hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it out of the hand of Ashdod.
And it was told Saul that David fled to Gath; and he sought no more after him.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, that fierce men shall not come against thee, and take thy life, and the lives of thy household.
But Saul did not say any thing that day: for he thought, that a thing hath befallen him; he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
For this cause also I sent him, that when I had seen him again ye may rejoice, and I am the less sorrowful:
And the woman had a fatted calf, which was in the house; and she hasted quickly to kill it, and took flour, and kneaded meal, and baked him unleavened bread.
But remember the former days in which ye were enlightened, ye suffered a great deal with sorrows,
And they were a wall unto us both night and day, and all the days that we kept the sheep.
And it shall come to pass, that if they had kept the land from which they went out, they would have repented.
And now, behold, the king shall walk before thee. Now I am old and gray, and my sons are with thee: behold, I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
And the war began again; and David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter; and they fled from his face.
And they turned and fled into the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon six hundred men; and they dwelt in the rock for four months.
And he changed his countenance before them, and lay asunder between their hands; and he stumbled against the doors of the gate, and his spittle ran down upon his beard.
Now therefore make a new cart, and take two golden kine, on which there is not a yoke, and bind the kine to the cart, and bring their cattle away from them:
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead four hundred young women that were virgins, who had known no man, and brought them to the camp, to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in the wilderness, in the wilderness in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
but we can not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel swore, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And here men that die receive tithes; but there receiveth them there, of whom it is witnesses that he liveth.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and hath cast thee off from being king over Israel.
And in time death overtook all that generation; and another generation came after them, having no knowledge of Jehovah, nor of the things which he had done for Israel.
For every one that useth milk is brutish in the word of righteousness; for he is a child.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in mount Ephraim, on the north side of the mountain of Gaash.
And they gathered together all the rulers of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And the chariot of Rimmon said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about, and carry the ark of the God of Israel.
Jehovah hath been for judge, and hath judged between me and thee; he seeth and plead my cause, and delivereth me out of thy hand.
And Jesse took a ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Go, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Speak.
And he restored them to his mother, and said unto him, I have sanctified and vowed this money unto Jehovah, that my son may receive it at my hand, and make a graven image and a molten god; so I will deliver it unto thee.
But there was a strong tower within the city; and all the men and the women of the city fled thither, and shut themselves in, and went up to the roof of the tower.
and he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppress you.
And thou shalt say, Because Jehovah hath given me up to Zebah and to Zalmunna, I will break thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with thorns.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man? for he hath come out to put shame upon Israel: and it is certain that if any man shall overcome him, the king will give that man great substance, and give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And the children of Dan went away: and when Micaiah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned to his house.
And Samuel assembled the people unto Jehovah in Mizpah.
And Jehovah delivered them up into the hand of the king of Canaan, the king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and he had a captain of his army called, and he dwelt in the fields of the nations.
And Saul sought to smite David, and the wall with the spear; but he fled from before Saul, and smote the spear into the wall. And David fled, and escaped that night.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that he set the Canaanites to tribute, and did not utterly dispossess it.
And he called him on that same day, saying, The Baal shall plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.
And when Samuel came to Saul, Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have kept the word of Jehovah.
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost: and he said unto Saul his son, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, and seek the asses.
And David came to Ziklag, and sent the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, Behold, a blessing of the enemies of Jehovah.
by faith a better sacrifice did Abel unto God, than Cain, through which he testified to be righteous, and that he testifieth of his gifts; and through him he is dead, and yet he speaketh.
And the second, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivite, that dwelt in Lebanon, from mount Hermon unto the entering in of Hamath.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were girded with weapons of war.
Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail; and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a fair countenance: but the man was corrupt and evil in his works; and he was of the house of Caleb.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, unto day, if ye will hear his voice,
And David said, Shall the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And he said unto Saul, Why art thou troubled me by bringing me up? And Saul said, I am in distress: for the Philistines are about to make war against me; but God hath turned away from me, and hath not answered me any more, neither by the prophets, nor by the dreams: therefore I called to thee, that I should know what I should do.
Awake, aha, awake; awake, awake; lift up, lift up, and awake; take away thy captives, O daughter of Abinadab.
And it came to pass, when the young men of David came, they spake all this unto the wife of the Carmelite, and said nothing more.
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and raiseth up.
And Saul pitched his tents upon the mount of Paran, which is before the wilderness on the way. But David was in the wilderness; and he saw that Saul was coming after him.
For zeal against the church persecuted the assembly; for the righteousness which is in the law is found without blemish.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man to his tent; and the sound was very great, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
And he said unto her, If they put all my cords together, I will be as one man.
And he returned and said unto his father and to his mother, I have seen a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines: get her now for my wife.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly called, consider the apostle and the high priest of our confession, Jesus;
Be ye therefore merciful unto thy servant; for thou hast been joined to thy servant in a covenant made before Jehovah: but if there be any iniquity in me, put me to death: why take me to thy father?
And he took the inwards with the fat tail, and put it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the portion which hath been kept for you: take it as your portion of the feast; for it hath been kept for you till the time of the present, and until the guests were present. So that day Saul took bread with Samuel.
For when God had made a vow unto Abraham, since he had no greater oath by himself, he sware by himself:
And he brought them to the king of Moab, and they dwelt with him; and David dwelt in his stead.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness unto us, for he said,
And they took two of the heads of Midian, Oreb, and Zeeb, and slew Oreb at the rock of Oreb, and like Zeeb; and they went after Midian; and they went after Midian; and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb unto the east beyond the Jordan.
And David said unto Job, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I am before thee till this day, that I go not in, and have fought against the enemies of my lord the king?
While it is said, To day shalt thou hear his voice, harden not your heart as in the provocation.
And it came to pass, as they went down at the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to go before us. And he went before, and said, Stand still, and I will cause thee to hear the word of God.
and the Spirit of Jehovah is upon him, and he judgeth Israel, and goeth out to battle; and Jehovah giveth unto his hand the Ethiopians, the king of the king of Syria, and his hand against the Ethiopians.
And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into mine hand: for he is shut in, entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
That we may say in a good heart, Jehovah is my help; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?
Behold, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief in the falling away of the living God;
but Christ as a son over his house, whose house are we, if we keep our hearts in the glad and in the hope till the end.
Whithersoever them went forth the hand of Jehovah against them for evil, as Jehovah had said; and as Jehovah had sworn unto them, and they were greatly grieved.
And the servants of God said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not make songs of him in their dance, saying, Saul hath slain thousands, and David hath slain thousands.
Look unto the dogs, and see to evil workers, And see the reproach of the wicked.
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall be bowed, of them that are in heaven, and on the earth, and in the dead;
And Japhlet went with the elders of Gilead; and the people set him over them for head, and for captains, and for almonds, before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And Melchizedek the king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, who met Abraham, returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
As I sware in mine anger, they shall not enter into my rest.
And I said, I am Jehovah your God: fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; and ye would not hear my voice.
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, None of us shall go to his tent, neither shall any of us return to his house.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
And they passed over into the hill-country of Ephraim; and they came to Micah.
And he said unto Samuel, Go, lie down, and it hath been, if he call unto thee, that thou hast said, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth thy servant. And Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
For every man that eateth milk without good in the word of righteousness, for he is a child.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he is a man of war from his youth.
And the children of Ephraim shall be called together, and pass over the north, and say unto them, Wherefore have thou passed over against the children of Ammon, and have not called to go with thee? thy house we burn upon thee with fire.
For we have many things to say, and it is hard to interpret; for ye are become a man of understanding.
But we see him that hath been made a little lower than the angels, because of the sufferings of death, and glory and glory, that by the grace of God he should taste death for all.
For nothing hath the law perfect, and the bringing in of a good hope whereby we draw nigh unto God.
So they turned their backs toward the children of Israel, and they went in the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the city, thrust them off, and put them to the sword.
But they hearkened not unto their judges, but went after other gods, and worshipped them, and turned aside quickly from the way of their fathers, and kept the commandment of Jehovah; but they did not so.
And the cart came in unto the field of Joshua the Gittite, and stood there, and there a great stone; and they clave the wood of the cart, and the cattle which they offered to Jehovah.
but the high priest alone, once in the year, without blood, which he offereth for himself, and for the error of the people.
For if the priests are changed, it must be necessary to change the law.
And Asher did not take the land of the people of Sodom, or of Sidon, or of epb, or of Achzib, or of Sheba, or of Rehob, or of Rehob.
And the custom of the priests among the people: any man sacrificed a sacrifice, then the servant of the priest shall come in when the flesh shall boil, and the bands of three teeth in his hand;
And the man said, Let now thy words be: and what shall the child's way be?
And he said unto him, Where is thy mouth now that thou saidst? Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? Is not this the people that thou hast despised? go forth, and fight against him.
And they said, What sin is we to send unto him? And they said, Five gold images of the devils, and five of the mouse, one for all the Philistines; for the plague came upon thee and upon thy nobles.
And I said, I will not cast them out from before you; and they shall be unto you for their adversaries, and their gods for a snare.
And turn not aside after the former things, which have no value, neither can they deliver: for they die.
And the king said to the guard that stood over him, Turn, and slay the priests of Jehovah: for their hand is with David; and they knew that he fled, and showed it not unto me. But the servants of the king would not put out their hand upon the priests of Jehovah.
Therefore he is able to deliver unto the uttermost part of them that draw nigh to God through him, seeing that he liveth for ever to make intercession for them.
And he said, They were my brethren, and my mother's sons: by the life of Jehovah, if thou hadst kept them safe, I would not put thee to death.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
There was a man in Maon, whose substance was in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats; and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
And when all Israel heard it, Saul smote the garrison of the Philistines; and Israel took courage against the Philistines; and the people were gathered together after Saul to Gilgal.
So the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and set themselves in array against Gibeah.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines, and fought against them, till they came in unto Beth-shemesh.
And she heard the noise of the cry, and said, What is the noise of this tumult! And the man hasted, and came in, and told it to him.
And the handful went in after the blade, and the fat was joined over the sickle; for he took not the sword out of his bowels: and he went out into the judgment.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they spoil the threshing-floor.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went forth into the field, to the place pleased with David, and a little child with him.
For God is not unjust, that he may forget thy work, and the love which thou hast shown to his name, to serve the saints, and to serve them.
And they said, If thou send away the ark of the God of Israel, thou shalt not send it empty; but by all means return a trespass offering unto him, and thou shalt be healed, and it shall be known unto thee why his hand is not removed from thee.
But ye came to mount Zion, and to a city of the living God, to the heavens of heaven, and to ten thousand of angels;
And Jonathan said, My father hath made trouble come upon the earth: now see now now my eyes have grown, for I have taken a little of this honey.
And the whole congregation sent and spake unto the children of Benjamin, who were in the rock of Rimmon, and proclaimed peace unto them.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know thy state.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron, and the ark of God came to Ekron, and said, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel about to slay us and our people.
Out of Ephraim their root against Amalek; And after thee, O Benjamin, among thy people. Out of Machir came down the scepter, And out of Zebulun those that were with the staff of a writer.
For to you it is given, as regards Christ, not only the faith but the sufferings of him.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned to her father, and did on her the vow that he sware; and she knew no man; and it became a statute in Israel.
And the children of Israel grieved Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And Samuel said to the boil, Bring ye the portion that I have given thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it beside thee.
Now to God our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
For it was so much that Jesus made a covenant with the covenant.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have seen what Amalek did unto Israel, how he withstood him when he went up out of Egypt.
And he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of the valley; but they found them not, and passed through the land of the dead, but they were not there; he passed through the land of Benjamin, but found them not.
And David said, Verily in vain have I kept all that belonged to this man in the wilderness, and nothing was lost of all that belonged to him; and he hath returned me evil for good.
And if thy father look and inquire for me, thou shalt answer him; and David said unto me, that he may run to Bethlehem his own city; for there are sacrifices unto all his tribes.
And they set a ambush against him on the top of the mountains; and while they waited for his coming, they committed violence, and took spoil of all that passed by; and it was told Abimelech.
And David said unto Abimelech, Is there not under thy hand a spear or a sword? for I have not brought my sword nor my weapon with me, because the king's business hasted.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah; and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
For some had heard, and provoked, but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
And he said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou young? And David answered, I am thy servant, the son of Jesse thy servant.
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? for that which was once purified should have had no more conscience of sins.
And she said, Blessed be the Lord, and he shall give thee seed of this woman for the request of Jehovah. And they went to his own house.
He asked for water, and she gave milk; And she brought forth her milk with butter.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But the children of Benjamin did not destroy the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem; and the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
and we will take ten men of a hundred, throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred thousand men, and a thousand of ten thousand, to take food for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all that they have done in Israel.
Salute all saints in Christ Jesus. The brethren salute you.
And he came to the field, which was in his way; and there was a cave, and there was a cave, and it came to pass; now David and his men lay hid in the cave.
Now there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel: and the man was very rich, and had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats. Now the shearing of his sheep was feeding in Carmel.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, and lie hid in the vineyards.
And he said unto them, Follow me: for the Lord hath given Moab your enemies into thy hand. So they went down after him, and they took the plains of the Jordan toward Moab; and none of them should pass over.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel dwelt in all the land of the Amorites that dwelt in that land.
What then? in every way, or in truth, or in truth, Christ is preached; and in this I rejoice, and shall rejoice.
And truly, if they had been mindful of that which they had from whence they came forth, they had now time to return.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear, and let one of the young men come and fetch it.
Are they not all serving spirits, sent forth to serve them that shall be heirs of salvation?
So David rose up early in the morning to return into the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants besought him, and the woman also. And he heard them, and rose up from the ground, and sat upon the bed.
And he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchizedek met him.
And it came to pass afterward, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the hem of Saul.
And the children of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the children of Israel set themselves in array against them at Gibeah.
And the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when she was near to death the women that were with her, saying, Fear not, for thou hast borne a son: but she made no answer, and gave no heed to it.
And Saul said unto his servants, Take me a man that is a lawyer, and make him come unto me.
Which is a parable of the time: according to the gifts and sacrifices, which can not be offered, as to the conscience, make him perfect, only in foods and drinking.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Shammah: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
By faith, Joseph, when his end was nigh, made mention of the children of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And the Lord called the name of Samuel, and rose up, and came to him, and said, Behold, I am, because thou hast called me. And he said, I have not called thee, my son: go back, and lie down.
Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of the land, nor the inhabitants of Sela; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.
And the hand of the children of Israel increased, and prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But, behold, a fugitive came to the tent of Jath, the wife of the Rechabites; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of the Rechabites.
And as the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, the people wept bitterly.
And after him was Abdon the son of Dodo, the Pirathonite, a Pirathonite.
that their children might learn to fight with their enemies, and to be trained for war;
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it to minister in those days, saying, Shall we go out once more to battle against the sons of Benjamin our brethren? And Jehovah said, Go up tomorrow, and I will give them into thy hand.
But ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you, my son, my son, despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint, when thou art reproved by him:
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin, and the tribe thereof; and the lot fell upon the family of the slayer; and it came to Saul the son of Kish; and they sought him, and found him not.
For they could not stand that which was commanded, saying, If any beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.
And Jonathan said, Behold, we go over to the men, and we will shew ourselves unto them.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of Belial, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And Achbor the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
Now Samuel did not know the Lord, nor the word of Jehovah spake unto him.
For God promised unto Abraham, since he had no greater oath by himself,
and having tasted the good word of God, and works of power to come,
And Hananiah spake to her heart, but her lips were moved, and her voice was not heard, and she was made drunk.
And he stood, and called unto the divisions of Israel, and said unto them, Why come ye out to prepare the battle? I am the Philistines, and ye servants of Saul: choose ye a man, and let him come down unto me.
Now David, the son of a Ephrathah, was of Bethlehem of Judah, and his name was Jesse: he had eight sons: in the days of Saul this man was old, and yet he walked among the men.
And Saul said unto his servants that were there, Give ear now, O Benjamin: and, behold, the son of Jesse, the son of Jesse, shall give to every one of you fields and vineyards, and will make thee captains of hundreds and captains of thousands;
And David put his hand into the bag, and took a stone from it, and smote it, and smote the neck of the Philistines upon his forehead, and the stone descended into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the ground.
And they went through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom and Moab, and came to the east side of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon; and they went not into the border of Moab, because the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and trembling, let him return, and depart from mount Gilead. And two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, that he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: why then shouldest thou lay a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
And she brought him up with her, when she had weaned him, and three bullocks, and an ephah of fine flour, and a skin of wine; and she brought him unto the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, while the child was yet young.
For we are become friends of Christ, if indeed we have the beginning of faith to the end.
And they were stoned, and were cut asunder; they were put to death, they were slain with the sword; they wandered about in rams' skins, in pleasure, in hunger, and in pain.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer, and all his men that same day.
And the Amorite desired to dwell in the mountains of Aijalon, and in Aijalon, and in the suburbs, and the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy, and they became tributary.
And it came to pass, when thou heardest the dream, and the interpretation thereof, and the interpretation thereof, and he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered into your hand the camp of Midian.
If he say good things, Peace be unto thy servant; but if he be very angry, know that he hath determined to hurt me.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
and behold, I send the young man, go, and find the arrows: if I at all say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows upon this side of thee, take them away; then come thou, for peace for thee, and there is nothing: Jehovah liveth.
For there are those that hate the cross of Christ, whom I have given to you.
For if the first covenant had been without blemish, it would not be sought a second time.
And the ambush sat in wait for her in the inner chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee; and he hath broken the bow, as it came near to the fire, and his strength was not known.
And he answered and said, I beseech thee, my lord, wherewith shall I deliver Israel? Behold, my house is to Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
then shall the Spirit of Jehovah run upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them; and thou shalt turn into another man.
Is this the first time that I have inquired of him? Far be the thought, and let the king make no accusation against his servant, nor against my father's house; for thy servant knoweth not, neither is it any thing that thou knowest.
And the king said, Call thee therefore, whose son the king is.
And the king of the children of Ammon answered the messengers of Imnah, saying, Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and to the Jordan: now therefore restore peace.
And he said unto her, If thou wilt come with me, I will go; if thou wilt not come with me, I will not go.
And the first of the slaughter was about twenty men in the field; and Jonathan and his armor were twenty men.
And he said unto all Israel, Thou art on one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Whatever seemeth good to thee.
But this is the same, but now, when the things are moved, they make manifest the things that are taken away, that the things which are not shaken shall remain.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites; for the people have kept the best of the sheep and of the oxen, as an offering unto Jehovah your God: all the rest we have destroyed.
And the ambush came quickly, and went up against Gibeah; and it smote the whole city to the sword.
Let us take hold of our hope without wavering; for he that sweareth is faithful.
But Jehovah's hand was heavy upon the people of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with the boils, even Ashdod, and the border thereof.
And he went up to the north at Michmash, and the other on the south side of Geba.
There is nothing in the spirit of strife, or of vain glory; but with the humble of heart, each figure more excellent than themselves.
But ye know the proof of him, that as a child a father ministered unto me in the ministry of the gospel.
Gilead is beyond the Jordan; and why is Dan left in ships? Asher continued to the sea, and dwelt in his breaches.
And they came to Calneh, and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And he went in, and prepared a kid of the goats, and unleavened cakes of meal; and he put the meat in a basket, and put it in a vessel, and brought it out to him under the oak, and brought it to him.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed in Benjamin, that day, twenty and five thousand, and a hundred men; all these came the sword.
And the Edomites that stood by, and were the chief among the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse, and the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub.
But see how great this man was, to whom Abraham the father gave a tenth of the spoil.
For it was he, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the prince of their salvation perfect through the sufferings.
How much more shall ye think that he is worthy of the contempt of the Son of God, and of the blood of the covenant whereby he was made holy, and blasphemed the Spirit of grace?
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And she said unto her servants, Go before me; behold, I come after thee, but she told her not the widow of Nabal.
How much more, if the people had eaten willingly this day of the spoil of their enemies, which they found; for there was not a great slaughter among the Philistines.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hands? And will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And Abigail went up, and rode on an ass, and five maidens of her mother that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
And they stoned them with stones, and they were slain with the sword; and they went about in the midst of rams' skins, and in the juice of badgers, to the poor, and to the poor.
Then said he to the messengers that came, Say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, Tomorrow, by the time the sun is high, ye shall be saved. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh, and they were glad.
By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with the unbelieving, having received the spies in peace.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue, And all of them shall be old as a garment.
And Shammah the son lay until midnight; and he rose up in the middle of the night, and took the doors of the gate, and the two pillars, and brake them up with the bar, and put on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
But the hair of his head began to grow up after it was shaven.
And he sent messengers throughout all the mount of Ephraim, saying, Come down against the Midianites, and take before them the waters unto Bethdar, and the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto Bethdar, and the Jordan.
And they told him, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, to eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have dealt falsely, and roll unto me this day a great stone.
and the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
For as the children are partakers of blood and flesh, he also in such things hath also been partakers of the same things, that he might destroy him that hath the power of death, that is, the devil.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of the assembly will I sing praises unto thee.
And it came to pass, when Samuel had said unto all Israel, If thou wouldest return unto Jehovah, then thou shalt put away all the foreign gods, and all the foreign gods, and ye shall return unto Jehovah, and serve him; and he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
So Abimelech arose, and all the people that were with him by night; and they set wait at Shechem four thieves.
And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Loose the servant pass before us, and he passed on, and stand thou still a while, that I may shew thee the word of God.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and ate, and her face was no more as before.
And Jehovah visited Hananiah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel grew before Jehovah.
But that which bringeth forth thorns and thorns, is defiled, and very near unto a curse, whose end is to be burned.
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan from Ephraim, and said, Let me pass over, and let me pass over. And the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou one of Ephraim? And he said, No.
For God is not unjust, that he should forget thy work, and the love which thou hast shewed in his name, ye that have ministered, and minister unto the saints.
and the priest shall go in after the blade, and the fat that stoppeth the sickle, that he should not draw the sword out of his belly, and it shall go out by the plague.
For truly, by the living Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath kept me from doing you evil, if thou wouldest not come to me, and come unto me, neither shall the day of the uncircumcised be in the house of Nabal, so much as one alive.
And he had two wives: the name of the first was Belteshazzar, and the name of the second was Penuel; and over the last she had no children.
And when he saw her, he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast deceived me, and thou art deceived: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can do no other thing.
And again I will trust in him; and again, behold, I and the children which God hath given me.
Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ; that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your matters, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind for the faith of the gospel.
And the children of Ammon made war with Israel.
And David said, O Jehovah God of Israel, thy servant hath heard a report, that Saul hath smitten himself to divide the city, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the Spirit of Jehovah hath put upon him; and he blew the trumpet with a trumpet, and Ezer is called after him.
In these last days hath spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed to inherit all things, by whom also he made the world.
And the ark of the ark was in Kiriath-jearim a long time, as much as twenty years: and all Israel sought after Jehovah with weeping.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out unto them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not this evil thing: this man is come into my house, and thou shalt not do him wrong.
But as it is clear that some went in, and that the first hearing of the gospel could not go in, because they had gone against God's commandment,
And the king sent to call Abimelech the son of Ahitub, the priest, and all the house of his father, the priests that were at Nob; and they came all of them unto the king.
And they sat, and eat both of them, and drink, and the father of the damsel saith unto the man, Be willing, I pray thee, and lodge all night, and let thy heart be glad.
For for the sake of Christ he was nigh unto death, putting his life in jeopardy, that ye might be preserved by me.
And it came to pass from the day of the dwelling of the ark in Kirjath-jearim, that the days were increased, and they were twenty years old, and mourned all the house of Israel after Jehovah.
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech deceitfully, saying, Behold, the son of Shelemiah, and his brethren come into Shechem; and, behold, they are building the city against thee.
and not while I am yet alive, will ye not shew the lovingkindness of Jehovah with me, that I may not die?
In addition, in addition, I said unto them, ``Thou hast no pleasure in the law, nor of the sacrifices, nor of the offerings, nor of the offerings of the law.
Yea, I count all things in vain for the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and counted them nothing, that I might gain Christ.
Now I say, I will not cast them out from before you; they shall be as thorns unto you; and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
For Christ entered not into a holy place, which was made by men's hands, as the witness of the true one; but he went into heaven, and now standeth before God for us.
though I have confidence in the flesh, if any man think to trust in flesh, I rather say,
But the people hearkened not unto the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
And all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah;
and I have declared to him that I judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knew; for his sons are making themselves odious, and he hath not restrained them.
And he said unto him, Far be the thought, thou shalt not be put to death: see, my father doeth nothing, great or small, without giving me word: wouldest he keep this secret from me? It is not so.
And when Abigail saw David, she made haste, and took off the ass, and fell before David, and bowed himself upon the ground.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take, I pray thee, to thy brethren, an ephah of salt, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp unto thy brethren.
And I said, I will not send them out from before you; but they shall be a snare unto you, and their gods shall fall unto you.
And Saul heard that David had gone to Gath, and went after him no more.
And Abraham, being called by faith, went forth to the place which he was to receive for an inheritance: and he went out, and did not know where he went.
And David went forth, whithersoever Saul sent him success; and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was pleased in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words, and their heart clave to Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
who need not daily as the other priests, to offer sacrifice first for his own sin, and for the people: for this he did, and he did so.
And Jonathan answered Saul, and said, Let me go to Bethlehem.
And David repaired the son of Joash from the battle before the sun.
And David said, Surely in vain I kept all that this man had in the wilderness: and there was nothing left of all that was his, but he returned evil against me.
And Jesse made Shammah pass by: and he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this one.
For every house is builded by men; but he that built all things is God.
So David and his men came to the city, and found it burnt with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, and their daughters,
but as to the Son, thy throne, O God, unto the world for ever, and the scepter of righteousness the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot; for Saul and Jonathan were taken, but the people escaped.
And all the people likewise cut down his boughs, and went after Abimelech, and put them at the bottom of the fortress, and set the fort on them, that all the people of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
Now the custom of the priests among the people was that when one offered a sacrifice, the servant's servant came, and the flesh boiled, with a hand of three teeth in his hand;
Whose end is destruction, Whose God is their belly; And whose glory is in their shame, Who have thought of earthly things.
And Jehovah said unto him, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give them into their hands: Israel shall glory, saying, My hand hath delivered me.
where he went before us, as a high priest, according to the order of Melchizedek.
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my law into their heart, and in their heart will I write them;
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to preach tidings in the houses of their idols, and to the people.
And he shewed them the entrance into the city; and they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man and all his house go.
And Memucan came unto him, and he sat by himself in his own house, and said, I have a word from God for thee, and he rose up from his throne.
Now therefore give thought to what thou shalt do; for evil is in store for our lord, and for all his house: for he is a man of Belial, that it can not speak unto him.
And Abimelech was told that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
And we smote the king of the Cherethites, and the land of Judah, and the south of Caleb, and we burned him with fire.
Take courage, and be thou men, O Philistia, lest thou end to the Hebrews, as they have served thee: be men and fight.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was come into the camp, that all Israel cried with a great shout, and the earth sounded again.
not leaving our congregation, as some were wont to be wont, but to comfort one another, and so much as ye see the day coming.
to the captain of the guard, and to the assembly of the firstborn that are in the heavens, to God the Judge of all, to the spirits of the righteous made perfect;
Let us then, though we still have the word of God, that we may come into his rest, fear that ye can not be able to do so.
For there is no breach in the law, because of its infirmity and unrighteousness.
And in this place, if they enter into my rest.
For we that believe are come into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they enter into my rest: though the works were finished since the foundation of the world.
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices; and it is necessary that he should have something to offer.
And he said, I pray thee, seventy kings, with their thumbs, and upon their great toes, that they may eat the crumbs under my table; as I have done, that God hath recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
So then, O king, when thou wilt come down, come down, and it shall be for us to deliver him into the hand of the king.
and I call more abundantly to do this, that I may shortly be brought unto you.
the things which ye have learned, and receive, and hear, and see in me; and the God of peace shall be with you.
Now it came to pass on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines, that is on the other side; but he told not his father.
And the heart of the priest was glad, and took the ephod, and the images, and the graven images, and went in among the people.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out to them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, I pray you, do not wickedly: seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this thing.
And all the children of Israel came to the house of God, and sat and wept before Jehovah; and they fasted that day until the evening, and offered unto him burnt offerings, and sacrifices of peace-offerings.
And even if I have been offering for a drink offering, I have given myself for the cause of your faith; I am glad, and rejoice with you all.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we fear here in Judah; how much more then, if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?
For where there is a covenant, the death of the avenger must come in.
for he that went into his rest, he also rested from his works, as God from his own.
And as for the asses, which were lost three days ago, be not afraid, because they are found: and for whom shall all the best things of Israel be? shall they not be for thee, and for all thy father's house?
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech secretly, saying, Behold, the son of Amasa, and his brethren, come to Shechem; and behold, they build the city against thee.
And all Israel heard that Saul smote the garrison of the Philistines, and Israel also became odious to the Philistines; and the people were gathered together after Saul to Gilgal.
And I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of the house of Eli shall not be cleansed with sacrifice nor offering for ever.
And there came an old man out of his work out of the field, and the man was from mount Ephraim, and he dwelt in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamin.
Because ye have not obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have done not his wrath against Amalek, therefore Jehovah hath done this thing unto you this day.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and put it upon the ark of the cart, with the golden vessels that thou shalt return unto him for a trespass-offering: thou shalt put them in the vessel by the ark, and thou shalt send it away, that it may go away.
a servant of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hath pitched, not man.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who hath delivered you out of all your troubles and your afflictions; and ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And he took the honey in his hand, and went on, and ate it on the way; and when he came to his father and mother, he gave to them, and said not that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
And they said unto him, Pray, we pray thee, at God; and we know whether our way is at which we go.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat; and his servants, and the woman, compelled him, and he hearkened to their voice; and he rose up from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
For the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, and not for his life, to supply your lack of service toward me.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said, and drove thence thence three sons of Anak.
And they sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying,
But if I walk in the flesh, if this is the fruit of my work, I perceive not what is convenient.
And David took his wife, Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were his wives.
Neither did they shew mercy unto the house of Baal, according to all the good that he had done to Israel.
And he said unto him, If I have found grace in thine eyes, give me a sign which thou sayest unto me.
Neither shall they teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know ye Jehovah; for all shall know me, from their least unto their greatest.
And he said unto them, Thus hath he done to me; and he took me, and I am to him for a priest.
And the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Japhlet, which he sent unto him.
Wilt thou not possess that which thy god hath given thee to possess? And whomsoever Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, they will we possess.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! and let one of the young men come and fetch it.
And he said unto him, Where is thy mouth, that thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? Is not this the people that thou hast despised? go out now, and fight with them.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, This is the man of whom I gave thee word: he that is to have authority over my people.
But now they desire a good country, that is, a man of heaven; therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared a city for them.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites, and the Perizzites into their hands; and they slew of them ten thousand men.
And when he was gone out, the servants of the first came and looked, and, behold, the doors of the chamber were bound, and they said, Surely he is covered his feet in the summer chamber.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, Let thy heart always go astray, and these have not known my ways.
and over it cherubims of the glory, covering the mercy-seat, concerning which we are not to speak.
And David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captive.
Shall I then take my bread, my water, and my flesh, that I have slain for my shearers, and give it to men that I know not whence they are?
But, brethren, take hold of the words which I have spoken unto you, for I have not sent you a long epistle.
And the men of the city rose early in the morning, and, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down, and the second ox was offered upon the altar that was built.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And he turned aside from him to one of the people, and said the same words: and the people answered him.
And thou shalt say unto God, If thou wilt deliver Israel salvation by my hand, as thou hast said,
and I will raise up for me a faithful priest; as in my heart and in my soul he shall do; and I have built for him a faithful house, and he shall walk and down before mine anointed all the days.
And his master said unto him, I will not go into the city of another nation, which are not of the children of Israel: but I will pass over to Gibeah.
And David departed thence, and fled to the cave of Adullam; and his brethren and all his father's house heard; and they went down thither unto him.
And David went from thence to Mizpah; and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with thee, till I know what God will do for me.
But the hair of his head began to grow after his beards.
and let us consider one another to provoke love and to good works.
But Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his border; so Sihon gathered all his people, and encamped in Jahaz; and Sihon made war with Israel.
The children of Midian prevailed over Israel, because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel made themselves hiding places that were in the mountains, and in caves, and in the strongholds.
But I have all, and I have increased; I am full, and have received the things which thou hast sent unto me, a sweet savour, a sweet savour, a sweet sacrifice, sweet to God.
If thou hast done that which is true and right to destroy Baal and his house this day, then shalt thou rejoice in Abimelech, and he shall rejoice in thee.
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever, when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David from the face of the earth.
and those that were in Hormah, and those that were in league with them, and those that were in Hazeroth,
And Joshua rose up early, and all the host that was with him, and encamped in the valley of Moreh; and they encamped in the valley of Moreh.
And they came down on the seventh day before the sun said unto him, What is better than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye have not found my riddle.
but call to mind the former days, wherein ye are light, and ye have endured a great battle.
And Samuel did as Jehovah said, and came to Bethlehem: and the elders of the city came out to him in fear, and said, Dost thou come in peace?
And the princes ceased in Israel: they ceased until I, Rebekah, rose up, until I arose a mother in Israel.
Now these things were so commanded, and the priests came to the first tent, to do the service of the sacrifices.
And Shammah the son said unto the young man that held him by the hand, Let me see the stone that is upon the house, that I may lean upon them.
But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a man of Benjamin, a Benjamite, a Benjamite; and the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon, the king of Moab.
And Ehud made him a sword, having two corners: it was of a cubit long; and he girded it under his garment upon his right thigh.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah saith unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do unto him as it pleaseth thee. And David arose, and cut off the hem of the robe that was upon Saul.
who in the days of his flesh, when he offered up prayers, and supplications with a strong cry, and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;
And they stood every one in his place round about the camp; and all the camp ran, and they cried, and fled.
But the land of Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, neither could they lift up their rods: but the land rested forty years; and the king sat on the throne.
And it came to pass, when she was come down under the mountain upon her ass, that David and his men came down against her, and she came face to face with them.
And Jehovah said unto Jeremiah, By the three hundred men that drew water, I will save thee, and deliver Midian into thy hand; but let all the people return unto their place.
And Samuel said, Hath the Lord delight in burnt-offering and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to hearken is better than sacrifice, and to hear than the fat of rams.
According to the law, for all things were cleansed with blood, and without blood there is no release.
And having endured patience, he obtained the promise.
And they sat down, and did eat and drink, both of them together. And the father's father said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and pass the night, and let thy heart be glad.
And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Son of Belial, do I not know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thy own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And after him was Shelomith the son of Jephunneh, and smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with the cattle of oxen; and he saved them, even Israel.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted and slew it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread.
that it might be more tolerable in the sight of God, to show to the heirs of the promise the word of his mouth,
And when he had made the tribe of Benjamin come near by their families, the family of the fathers was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken; and when they sought him, he could not be found.
And he went also to Ramah, and came to a great well; and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are at Ramah in Ramah.
And it came to pass, as they went down to the end of the city, that Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to pass before us, and he passed on: but now stand thou now, that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.
And the children of Israel turned in the battle; and Benjamin smote and slew of the men of Israel thirty souls: for they said, Surely they are smitten before us as in the first battle.
And Saul said unto his young man, Behold, we go, and what shall we bring in unto the man? for the bread is gone from our vessels, and there is no gift to bring in unto the man of God.
For zeal persecuted the assembly; according to righteousness, that is in the law, become perfect.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines came to take their spoil from the dead, that they saw Saul and his three sons dead upon the earth on mount Gilboa.
And the Spirit of Jehovah went upon him, and he rent the lion, and rent himself a kid of the goats, which was given him; but he told not his father and mother what he had done.
Now the children of Benjamin had spoken that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Make clear to know the evil thing.
And Saul said unto his servants, Give me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
for it is testified, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein; and he brake down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And he went up, and went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents eastward, between Nobah and pottage, and smote the host; for the host was established.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avengeth me; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Having therefore a great high priest that hath passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
And he said, Hear now, son of Ahitub. And he said, Here am I, my lord.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that thy words come to pass?
But as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah, to pray for you; but I will teach you in the good and right way.
For every high priest is ordained to offer, and to offer sacrifice, and to sacrifice: so that the high priest shall have something to offer.
And Saul perceived that he was wise, and was afraid of him.
And Jesse was called Shammah, and he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And the children of Dan set up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh: he and his sons were priests for the tribe of Dan, until the time of the captivity of the land.
And David said, Jehovah liveth; but the Lord will smite him, or his day shall come that he may die, or go down into battle, and be consumed.
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons; and his wife's sons grew up; and they cast out Japhlet, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a strange woman.
And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Beth Rehob; and they built a city, and dwelt therein.
And it came to pass at that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the young bullock that is to thy father, and the second bullock seven years; and thou shalt cast down the altar of Baal which is to thy father, and the altar which thou shalt cut down.
And he brought near to Eglon the king of Moab; and he made it very fat.
But with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?
Consider, and see all his lies wherein he saith, and return unto me with the certainty of the thing, that I may go with thee: and if thou be to go down to the earth to hide himself, I will search him out in all the thousands of Judah.
which had the golden censer, and the ark of the testimony round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And after him was Abdon, the son of Jeroham; he was the Pirathonite, and he governed Israel;
And the boil took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold that which is left, set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time it is preserved for thee since I said, I have called the people. So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
And the children of Israel asked Jehovah, for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days.
And he said unto them, Thus hath he dealt with me, and he hath hired me, and I am become his priest.
And Israel was brought very low because of Midian; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Thy fathers tempted me, and saw my works forty years.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they destroy the threshing-floor.
And one of the people said unto him, Thy father put the people under an oath, saying, Let him be cursed that eateth bread this day; and the people fainted, and hunger.
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men dwelt in the midst of the cave.
neither through the blood of the goats, nor of the calves, but in the blood of his own blood entered into the holy places, which is the everlasting redemption.
And Jehovah sent unto destroy Baal, and Bedan, and Samuel, and Samuel; and he delivered you from the hand of thine enemies round about, and dwelt in safety.
that we may come forth with a true heart in the full assurance of faith, that our hearts are cleansed from an evil conscience, and our body washed with pure water.
And she said unto him, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and hast told me a lie: tell me, I pray thee, that thou mayest be bound.
not having my righteousness, which of the law, but that which through faith of Christ, the righteousness of God by faith,
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead; and all the men of Jabesh say unto him, Make a league with us, and we will serve thee.
And the children of Judah besieged Jerusalem, and took it, and put it to the sword, and set the whole city upon fire.
But without faith it is impossible to please: for he that draweth near to God must believe that he is; and he is a reward to them that seek him out.
So they passed over, and went their way; and the sun went down upon them at Gibeah, which is for Benjamin.
that the glory of Christ may abound in Christ Jesus, because of me.
and in his wrath, and in his wrath, and in furious words, before the eyes of all men, and in part, and in part with them that were in this way,
And David went out whithersoever he sent him, and was wise: and he set him over the men of war, and it was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
making you perfect in every good work, to do his will, working in you that is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I go forward to the mark, even the reward of God in Christ Jesus.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me now pass through thy land; but the king of Edom hearkened not unto them. And he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel dwelt in Kadesh.
And the children of Israel said one to another, Who shall be the first to fight against the children of Ammon? and we will make him head over all Gilead.
According to the number of the provinces of the Philistines, thou shalt make five gold, and five gold, and five of gold; for the same plague is upon you all, and upon your masters; and ye shall make the form of your flesh, and the likeness of the mouse, and give glory unto the God of Israel: to see whether he will take away his hand from thee, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
For to Abraham God, having sworn, he could swear by no greater, sweareth by himself;
And Saul was told that David was at Ramah in Ramah.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty one.
And to speak, even Levi, he that receiveth tithes, hath given the tenth part by Abraham.
And it came to pass in the days of the wheat harvest, that he went unto his wife with a young goat: and he said, I will go in unto my wife's chamber. But her father would not allow him to go in.
So the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of spoilers; and they spoiled them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies from all sides; and they could not withstand their enemies any more.
And he made himself a second day a day, and spake by the hand of David this day, saying, To-day, if thou shalt hear his voice, harden not your heart.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon had fought with Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to search themselves out of the land of Tob;
that he should have suffered many times to suffer from the foundation of the world, but now, at the end of the world, for putting away sin through his sacrifice, he is manifested;
Behold, the king whom thou hast chosen, for whom thou hast said: behold, Jehovah hath set a king over thee.
The remnant of the people are saved: Jehovah hath fought among the mighty ones.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was very sorrowful.
Now I have not gone mad, that thou hast brought this man to a mad man before me? should this man come into my house?
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
For he that hath entered into his rest hath also rest from his works, as God did from his own works.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood upon the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hear you.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die: for he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and he hath cut down the Asherah that was by it.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the words of the prophets and the prophets, the Spirit of God came upon them, and they prophesied.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be a priest unto me, to go up unto my altar, to burn incense, and to bear an ephod before me; and I gave unto the house of your father all the offerings of fire by the children of Israel.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah in Ramah.
And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed.
And the princes of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, set themselves in the assembly of the children of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
And Samuel executed Israel all the days of his life.
And the princes of Shechem set wait for him on the top of the mountains; and they robbed all that passed by them by the way; and it was told Abimelech.
And the children of Benjamin were deceived out of the gates of Gibeah; and they gathered them with a great slaughter, and slew of them eighteen thousand men that drew the sword.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Shimei, and Malchishua, as to the name of his two daughters, the name of Michal the first-born, and the name of the younger Michal.
The bow of the mighty is broken, And the feeble are girded with strength.
And David enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And all the men of war arose, and went all the night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Beth Shan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
Is it not wheat to day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may see and see, and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking a king.
And the mountains went out from the presence of Jehovah, even Sinai, from the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were afraid.
And there answered a man of the people, saying, Thy father hath commanded the people, saying, Cursed the man that eateth bread to-day, and the people are weary.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took the great axe in his hand, and cut off a tree of the trees, and lifted it up, and set it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen I have done, and do ye like it.
But whereunto we are come, that we be of the same mind, let us also continue in the same rule.
in part of part, being reproved to both reproach and oppression; and part, being partakers with the others.
For it is known that our Lord came from Judah; and Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
For God hath given grace unto us, that they should not be made perfect without us.
in which God also abundantly willing to shew to the heirs of the promise the word of God, which is by the oath,
Jehovah killeth and restoreth alive; He bringeth down to Sheol, and raiseth up.
And Moses, when he had grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
And when the burnt-offering was finished, Samuel came; and Saul went out to see him, and blessed him.
Jesus Christ both both and this day and ever.
among all this people seven hundred chosen men, bound of their right hand, were bound with a stone at the head, and he did not go astray.
And there was a young man of Bethlehem, of the tribe thereof; and he was a Levite, and dwelt there.
For I have no pleasure in the heart of any man, that shall not be in any wise heart.
They that were full before have hired themselves for bread, and the hungry are filled, and the barren have borne many; and she that had many children is faint.
And the children of Ammon came together, and set up their army in Gilead; and the children of Israel came together, and set themselves in array at Mizpah.
And it came to pass, when the time came to pass, that she conceived, and bare a son; and she called his name Samuel: for she said, I pray unto Jehovah for him.
But without faith it is impossible to please God: for he that cometh to God, let him believe that he is, and is a reward to those that seek him.
And David kept his servants with these words, and did not let them rise up against Saul: but Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Why art thou weeping, and why hast thou not eaten? and why art thou sick? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
And the king said unto the king, Thou shalt put the priests to death, and smite the priests, and smite the priests, and smite them that day, and kill them that day.
And the Philistines came nigh every morning and evening forty days.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Thou shalt not cease to cry unto Jehovah our God, that he may deliver us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou art foolish: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now hath Jehovah established thy kingdom over Israel unto the age.
And he said, I am the seventy kings, and their thumbs, and their great toes, and they shall be taken under my table: as I have done, so hath God done to me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
And Joshua sent the people away, every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Jaakan, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan, and now restore it peace.
And behold, an old man came from his work out of the field in the evening, and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim; and he dwelt as a sojourner in Gibeah. And the people of the place were of Benjamin.
And the princes of the Philistines were gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; and they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy the enemy.
Is not this David, who was called in their songs, when they dance in the dance, and said to one another, Saul hath slain myriads, and David hath slain thousands?
And if the Levites were in charge of the priesthood, for the people received the law, what need is there for the priest to rise according to the order of Melchizedek, and not according to the commandment of Aaron?
But thou, O day, hast cast away thy God, who will deliver thee from all your troubles and from all your troubles, and say unto him, Nay, but thou shalt make a king over us: therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your families.
If in any way I have the reward of life from the dead,
And it came to pass after him, that the name of the son of Bethlehem was over Israel.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; and let all thy desire lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.
And it came to pass, when thou heardest the dream, and the interpretation thereof, and the interpretation thereof: and he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered the army of Midian into thy hand.
For to me that liveth is Christ, and to die there is profit.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in this way; and thou shalt save Israel out of the hand of Midian; I have not sent thee.
And they that strive with Jehovah shall be broken; and he shall thunder against them in the heavens: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth: he will give strength to his king, and he shall exalt the horn of his anointed.
for he longed after you all, and was grieved, because ye had heard that he was sick.
By faith we know that the heavens are perfected in the word of God, that what is seen is not made out of things which are seen.
And Samuel said, Hath the Lord delight in burnt-offering and sacrifices, as in the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to hearken is better than sacrifice, and to hear than the fat of rams.
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost: and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take, I pray thee, with thee, one of the young men, and arise, and go, seek the asses.
And when he saw her, he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter, thou hast caused me to fall down, and thou hast become my trouble: I have sworn unto Jehovah, and I can not take it again.
And Saul inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
if thy father were at all look after me, and thou hast said, I pray thee, let me run to Bethlehem his city, for a sacrifice of the days for all the house.
And there was no lack of small or great, neither of their sons, nor of their daughters, nor of the spoil, and whatever they had taken; and David recovered all.
And Saul died, and three of his sons, and his armor, and all his men, on that day.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold the next day is the new moon, and I will sit by the king to eat: let me go, that I may be hid in the field until the third day.
And they said unto him, We have come down to deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And he said unto them, Swear to me, lest ye fall upon me.
And when his servants had told David the words that Saul had said, the word pleased David to be the king's son in law.
Know ye that Timothy our brother is set at liberty; with whom, if he should come quickly, I will see thee.
Now therefore, if ye have dealt faithfully and sincerely in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with baal and his house, and have done unto him according to the work of his hands,
And there was in the midst of the city a high tower, that both the men and the women were fled together, and all the princes of the city, and shut, and shut up the gate, and stood upon the towers of the tower to defend themselves.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice; but yet warn them, and show them the way of the king that shall reign over them.
For as long as the son of Jesse dwelleth upon the earth, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: and now send and fetch him to me; for he shall die.
And when the Philistines looked, and saw David, he despised him: for he was a young man, tender and ruddy, and of a beautiful countenance.
And they turned and went, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the goods before them.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of the Temanites, whose name was called by name.
But they trespassed against Jehovah their God; and he delivered them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the army of Jabin king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, who made war against them.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast dealt well with me, and I have rewarded thee with evil.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken Jehovah our God, and served the Baalim.
But Sihon trusted not Israel, to let him pass through his border; and Sihon gathered all his people, and they encamped in Jahaz; and he fought with Israel.
but Christ is come as a high priest of the good things to come: through the greater and without a tabernacle, not by hands, that is, not of this creature,
And it came to pass after a season, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call up Jonathan, and let him cheer us. And they called the chief of the prison, and he lodged them; and they made him stand between the pillars.
And David sent forth ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to the Carmelite; and salute him in my name.
And David took the spear, and the water of water from Saul's head; and they went away, and no man saw, and none knew; and they were all asleep: for a deep sleep from Jehovah fell upon them.
And it came to pass, that year by year, when she went up into the house of Jehovah, she defended her; and she bare herself to weep, and did not eat.
Now therefore go up by night, thou and the people that are with thee, and lie in wait in the field.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out to the field; and it was told Abimelech,
But Saul said nothing on that day, for he thought, He is not clean; he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
And Shammah died, and rose in the middle of the night, and stood in the middle of the night, and laid hold on the doors of the city, and on the two posts, and removed them with the bars, and put on his shoulders, and took them up unto the top of the hill, which is before Hebron.
And the men of war, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outside of the camp in the beginning of the midst of the camp; and they had but a new watch; and they blew the trumpets, and brake the vessels that were in their hands.
And David said unto me, If now I have found grace in thine eyes, let me have a place in one of the cities of thy land, to be my dwelling: for it is not lawful for thy servant to dwell with thee in the king's city.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, thou, and Ahimelech, and all thy father's house.
And there was a man of Benjamin, and his name Kish the son of Jakeh, the son of Michri, the son of Michri, the chief of the children of Benjamin, a Benjamite,
And they said, There shall be a possession for the children of Benjamin, that a tribe may not be blotted out of Israel.
And he dwelt in the midst of the promise, as a stranger, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, and the inheritance of the same promise.
And he said, Bring the burnt-offering unto me here, and the peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was the Lord, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? For they had made a great oath against him that came not up to Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
I have said, I have said unto thee, The keepers of the flock have been with us: now the keepers of thy flock have been with us, and we have done them no evil; and we have taken nothing of them, and they are in Carmel.
When thou comest into the simple, and the land is spread abroad, God hath given into thy hands a place where there is no lack of any thing upon the earth.
For it was made unto him, because of him all things, and through him all things, and many sons to glory, and the God of their salvation through the tribulation to make perfect;
I am able to do all things by him that strengtheneth me.
And Jehovah had revealed unto the ear of Samuel the day before Saul came, saying,
And they said, Ye have no desire for offering, for burnt offering, and for sin, which are made by the law, and ye have no pleasure in them;
And in this cause men receive tithes; but in that case it is testified that he liveth.
And the Lord was afraid with Sisera, and with all his chariots, and with all his host; and as for Sisera, and for Sisera, and for Sisera, and for all his host, they fled;
And when they went up the ascent of the city, they found young women going out to draw water; and they said unto them, Is there the seer here?
And when Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly feared.
And all that knew him yesterday and the day before, seeing that he was with the prophets, and prophesied, said to one another, What is this that hath happened unto the son of Kish? Is he also among the prophets?
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide, and continue with you all, for your sakes and joy of faith:
And the trees said to the fig tree, Thou art lord over us.
And the young men turned their way, and returned, and came and told him according to all these words.
And Jehovah's angel said unto him, Of all that I said unto the woman, Let her take heed.
And David knew that Saul had devised the evil against him, and said unto Abiathar the priest, Bring near the ephod.
Now therefore let not my blood fall to the earth from the presence of Jehovah: for the king of Israel hath come forth to seek a breach, as when he taketh a bird in the mountains.
And Samuel took a bottle of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?
But on the fourth day he rose early early in the morning to depart: but his father kept him in the law, and said unto him, Go first a little bread, and strengthen thy belly, and so thou shalt go.
And the woman brought a calf out of the house into the house; and she hasted and slew it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and kneaded it unleavened.
and have fallen away, and have crucified for themselves as they are the Son of God, and made a sign.
For in that which he suffered, when he was tempted, he is able to help those that are tempted.
But I trust in Jehovah that I also will shortly come.
And it came to pass, when Samuel rose early to go to Saul in the morning, that it was told by the name of Samuel, that Saul was come to Carmel, and rose up, and went down to Gilgal. And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul was offering a burnt-offering to Jehovah from the choice of the spoil that he had taken from Amalek.
And as it was not without an oath ( for they were made priests without an oath),
By the faith Rahab, the harlot, was not slain with them that transgressed the commandments of God; for she had taken her house in peace to see the land.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Memucan died.
But a certain man testified, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it to the house of Abinadab in Gibeah; and they sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And Enoch was taken away by faith, that he should not see death, and found him not, because God had interpreted him: for he had testified unto him that he had been justified by God before God.
I prayed for this child; And Jehovah hath given me my request which I asked him.
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no power to weep.
and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and of all the enemies that afflicted you; and I cast them out at your coming in, and gave you their land.
And David was wise in all his ways: and Jehovah was with him.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
but of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the rod of thy kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
And all the people of Shechem, and all the Berites, came together, and went and made Abimelech their king by the oaks of Shechem.
And the children of Ammon made war against Israel; and the elders of Gilead went to fetch themselves out of the land of Tob.
Wherefore, if there be any consolation in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any of the Spirit of the Spirit be in love, if there be any pity,
And when Israel sowed seed, the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and the people of the east, came up against them.
( For the priests were made without an oath, but the oath by him that said unto him, The Lord hath sworn, and will not repent: thou art a priest for ever after the manner of Malchijah.
And the couriers turned the way of Beth-horon; and the one went the way of the border that looketh toward the valley of Zeboim, toward the wilderness.
And the assembly sent thither twelve thousand men of the mighty men, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead, with the edge of the sword, and the women, and the children.
Far be it from me, by Jehovah, from putting forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah: and now, take, I pray thee, the spear that is at his head, and the water, and we go away.
And when she saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he hath shewed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
But in a very little time he that cometh shall come, and shall not be slow.
And the children of Israel rose up, and went up to Bethel; and they asked God, saying, Who shall go up first for battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah will go first.
But where there is forgiveness of them, there is no sin offering.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Ramah, and the voice of his horn was over the head of the sons of Abiezer.
And now I know that thou shalt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established under thy hand.
And they said, Arise, and let us go against Laish; for we have seen the land, and it is very good: why do ye do nothing? be not slow to go in, and take the land for your inheritance.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
But I want you to know, brethren, that the time wherein I am turned away from the gospel,
And there was none left by them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil nor anything that they had taken; and David brought them all.
And Saul saw, and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for I hear your evil doings out of all this people.
And he gave back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I have made the silver holy to Jehovah from me for my son, to make an image and molten image.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people, unto all that they say unto thee; for thou they have not rejected: but they have rejected me, and have not ruled over them.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, which he did for Israel.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand; and they slew ten thousand men in the valley.
And Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
All the saints send their love unto you, and especially them that are of Caesar's house.
And Adam arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake to my wife? And he said, I am.
And Jesse took an ass with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent by David his son to Saul.
And as they went up the ascent to the city, they met the young women going out to draw water; and they said unto them, Is the seer here?
And I will shoot three arrows upon it, And shall shoot as if I were under a mark.
And Saul came unto Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, where is the house of the seer?
and being made perfect, became to all them that obey him, and the God of eternal salvation.
And the wrath of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he delivered them into the hand of them that took possession of their substance, and into the hand of their enemies round about them, that they should give way before them.
saying, Except thou bless thee, I will bless thee, and I will greatly multiply thee.
For this man was reckoned more glory than Moses; forasmuch as he that built the house is more honorable than the house.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a forest.
And he had a son named Saul, and he was a very handsome child; and there was no one deputed among the children of Israel; and he was greater than all the people.
Now the beginning is now the second time, that the casting away of what is shaken, which is made, in order that the things which are not shaken shall remain.
And when the corn was planted, the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the people of the east came up against them;
For likewise ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And when the five captains of the Philistines saw it, they returned to Ekron that same day.
And they went through the Red Sea, as if it were dry land; and the Egyptians were overthrown by the waters, when they sought to do the same.
And a man of the hill-country of Ephraim called Micah.
that we may say, Jehovah unto me a helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me.
Finally, brethren, what are the things which are true, what things are honorable, what things are lawful, what things are well-pleasing, what things are well-pleasing, if there be any excellent thing, if there be any excellent thing, or any thing worthy to be praised.
And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words, and besought him, that his soul was vexed unto death.
But the people took of their goods, and of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the head of the curse, to make an offering unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken to his voice, and rebel not against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king that reigneth over you shall follow Jehovah your God.
So that all that fell that day of Benjamin were five thousand men that drew the sword: all these men were valiant men.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the children of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And the six hundred men took the priest, and the things that we spake before, and came to the people that were quiet and secure, and smote them with the edge of the sword; and the city was burned with fire.
For where the covenant is, there must be the death of the slayer.
And the sixth of them judged Israel six years: and the children of Japhlet died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
And the children of Ephraim: Kedesh and Naphtali, and the children of Naphtali: Kedesh; and the men went up at his feet ten thousand; and Rebekah went up with him.
Swear now to me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou shouldest not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of the field, nor the inhabitants of the valley; so the Canaanites dwelt in their midst, and became subdued.
And Micah said unto him, Abide with me, and be to me for a father, and for a priest; and I will give thee ten pieces of silver for the days, and a suit of garments, and thy food. And the Levites shall go.
And Jehovah said unto him that night, Take a young bullock of thy father, and another bullock of seven years, and thou shalt destroy the altar of Baal, which is thy father's, and cut down the Asherah that is round about the altar:
And she fell at his feet, and said, Suffer me the wrong, my lord: let thy servant speak unto thee, and hear the words of thy servant.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Why art thou weeping? why do thou not eat? why is thy heart grieved? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
For ye have need of patience, that ye may receive the promise of God.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgot Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And he went from year to year to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and to Israel, in all these places.
And Samuel told him all the words, and hid them not from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which is good in his sight.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men there, and took their clothes from them, and gave it to the men that answer him. And he was full of wrath, and returned to his father's house.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that thy word cometh to pass?
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father commanded the people, saying, Cursed be he that eateth bread to-day. And the people fainted.
And he brought the people down to the waters; and the Lord said unto him, Hew ye one side, and let them drink the water with their tongue as a dog, and all that go down upon their knees to drink.
And the children of Gilead said unto them, The Lord be our witness: we will surely do as thou sayest.
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of the house of thy father, that an old man is not in thy house;
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Speak unto David secretly, saying, Behold, the king is pleased with thee, and all his servants love thee: therefore therefore become a son-in-law of the king.
And the idol of Michmas remained with them all the time that the house of God was at Shiloh: and in those days there was no king in Israel.
but indeed, as Jehovah the God of Israel liveth, who hath restrained me from hurting thee, unless thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, there was no man left unto the man of Nabal by the morning.
And Saul gathered all the people to the war, to go down to Keilah, to smite David and his men.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto the Kenites, Behold, they come down from the top of the mountains: and the Kenite said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains like men.
Are ye more better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? hath he made a quarrel with Israel, or hath he fought against them?
And when he had finished prophesying, he went into the high place.
For we have become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence to the end:
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the mixture; and he did so.
who, being in the likeness of God, considered not according to God a thing that should be handled:
And David said, What now have I done? was it not hid upon me?
And Saul said, Make haste among the people, and say unto them, Bring me here every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and slay them here, and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
And he went to Ramah: and when he came to the well of the well, he said, Where are Samuel and David? And he said, Behold, they are in Ramah.
Have they not gone up? have they not divided the prey, to every man a young woman or two, to Sisera a prey of divers colours, a prey of divers colours, of divers colours on both sides, to meet for the neck of them that take the spoil?
And they found among the inhabitants of Gilead four hundred young virgins, who had known no man by lying with any male; and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, when thou didst go forth out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, and the skies drop water.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Wherefore ask thou of my name, since it is not known?
And she gave one portion to another, because he loved Anna; and the Lord shut up her womb.
who have set our eyes upon Jesus, the guide and the end of our faith, which went through the cross, not to suffer the shame, because of the joy which was before him; and who hath now taken his place at the right hand of the power of God?
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the Spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
And Ehud went out into the porch, and shut the doors behind him, and shut them behind.
And he said, Come hither, all ye princes of the people, that we may know the sin that is this day.
Behold this day thine eyes have seen, that Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand in the cave, and I thought to kill thee, but mine eye spared thee: for I said, I will not put out my hand against my lord, because he is Jehovah's anointed.
And Samuel judgeth Israel all the days of his life.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have come into the land.
And there was great fear in the camp, and in the field, and among all the men of the armed forces; and the earth trembled, and the earth trembled; and there was a fear of God.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain, which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs unto them by whom it is tilled, receiveth blessing from God.
This is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, Jehovah's anointed; and now behold the king's spear, and the staff of water that was at his head.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together with their armies, and gathered themselves together at Shechem, and encamped between Geba, and at Azekah.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall be no evil upon thee for this thing.
And Samuel rose, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin; and Saul mustered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
And Shammah the son said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with his might; and the house fell on the nobles, and upon all the people that were therein; and the dead that he slew at his death were more than they whom he had slain in his life.
And Samuel told the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote it in the book, and laid it before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanite; and I will go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.
But we are persuaded of you, beloved, better than good things, and with salvation, if we speak thus.
But if not, let fire come out of Abimelech, and consume the inhabitants of Shechem, and the house of the Millo; and let fire come out from the inhabitants of Shechem, and from the house of the Millo, and consume Abimelech.
And having confidence in this, I know that I shall remain, and abide with you all, for your progress and joy in faith.
and he went out, and his servants came in, and looked, and, behold, the doors of the upper chamber were bound, and they said, He is only covered his feet in the inner chamber of the wall.
And after a few days David rose up, and went with the men that were under him; and he slew two hundred men of the Philistines, and brought them out to the king, that he might be his son in law: and Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
But as for me, I will not walk contrary unto you; but I will teach you the good and the right way.
And Saul cast the spear; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David departed from his presence double.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with thee? And his anger was abated, when he spake.
And when she was old, he heard all that his sons were doing unto all Israel, and that they had lain with the women that ministered at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
And there was a great priest over the house of God.
And she answered and said, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel grant thy request that thou hast asked him.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the day; and there was not a man left of them, except four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of the land of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
For this cause be the heart in you which also in Christ Jesus.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And they embraced the man; and the son of the law tarried in the house of his father three days, eating with him and drinking their father's house.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy neighbour that is better than thee.
And the Philistines were subdued, and they stood still in the border of Israel: and Jehovah's hand was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of Baca, but they found not; and they passed through the land of the Ethiopians, and they were not there; and they passed through the land of Benjamin, and they found not.
And they came unto their brethren unto Zareah and Eshtaol; and their brethren said unto them, What do ye say?
Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, even as many as had not known all the wars of Canaan;
And he mustered them in the valley; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand men, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And Micah said unto him, Abide with me, and be to me a father and a priest; and I will give thee ten pieces of silver a year, and a garment, and a garment, and thy food. And the Levite went with him.
And we will take ten men of one hundred from all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred of one thousand, and one thousand of ten thousand, to bring unto the people, to repay them, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin for all the shame that they have done in Israel.
And Samuel said, Why hast thou asked me, seeing that God is gone from thee, and is on the side of him that is against thee?
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten before us as before. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and take them away from the city into the highways.
do not forget hospitality; for by this guile did men make men glad;
And Deborah, the prophetess, was the prophetess's wife, and she judged Israel at that time.
And when Saul was a year old when he began to reign, he reigned two years over Israel.
And Samuel executed Israel all the days of his life.
And thou, O Jehovah, hast found the earth; And the heavens are the works of thy hands.
By the window she looked down, and the mother of Sisera cried out through the lattice, Why is his chariot tarrying in coming? why do the hoofs of his chariot lodge?
For verily he taketh not on the life of angels, but that of the seed of Abraham.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David be with me, for he pleaseth me.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice; but thou shalt warn them, and show them the way of the king that shall reign over them.
And the Philistines took him, and put his eyes upon him, and brought him to Gaza, and bound him with brass fetters, and was in the prison.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Jehovah, saying, I brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, and brought thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, My covenant with you shall not be broken by me.
And he said, Why doth my lord persecute his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in my hand?
And Saul said, Cast between me and Jonathan my son: and Jonathan was taken.
Ye have not yet resisted the blood of blood:
And he took away the king of Amalek with them, and slew all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Samuel said, Though thou art small in thine own eyes, are thou not the head of the tribes of Israel? Jehovah hath anointed thee king over Israel.
And all the valiant men arose, and went all the night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Bethshemesh; and they came to Jabesh Gilead, and burned them there.
Why hast thou dwelt between the borders, To hear the faces of the cattle? For the divisions of Reuben, even the great parts of the heart!
And the Philistines said, I have defied the bands of Israel this day: give me a man, and let him fight with me.
And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah; and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And they came down from the high place to the city, and talked with Saul on the roof.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah; therefore they called that place, Dan, unto this day: behold, at Kiriath-jearim.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thine hand this day: now therefore let me smite him with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.
And Joseph called to mind the children of Israel by faith, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and build the kingdom there.
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second was Abijah; and they were judges in Beersheba.
And Jotham fled, and fled, and went to Beer-sheba, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Bethlehem; and the elders of the city trembled to meet him, and said, Is thy peace?
And he said unto her, If thou go with me, I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Jakeh, the son of Michri, the son of Cushi, the son of Benjamin, a Benjamite.
If he say thus, It is well, thy servant shall have peace; but if he be very wroth, be sure that evil is determined by him.
But what then? whether by chance, or by truth, or by truth, Christ be preached: in this also I rejoice, and will rejoice.
For this cause the covenant that I will make unto the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah, that I will put them in their hearts, and I will write them also upon their hearts; and I will be unto them for God, and they shall be unto me for a people.
For I will show mercy to their iniquity, and their transgressions and their statutes shall I remember no more.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah, who made Moses and Aaron, and brought our fathers out of the land of Egypt.
Wherefore it ought him to be made like unto brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
They that were full have hired themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceased, that the barren had begotten seven; and she that hath many children is waxed feeble.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And Saul sought to smite with the spear through David, and through the wall; and he was wroth with Saul, and smote the spear through the wall; and David fled, and fled in that night.
For the daughters of women have died, and they have persecuted themselves, and have no desire to go free, that they might have a better life.
For since ye ought to be masters to be masters, ye have need to be taught again what are the first elements of the words of God; and ye are become like milk, and not of strength.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent again and again unto my necessity.
For when ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again, who are the firstfruits of the oracles of God; and they are become like milk, and not of strength.
holding forth the word of life, that I should be a glorying unto me in Christ's day, that I run not in vain, nor laboured in vain.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they dwelt with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice, and said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And they said, In the morning we will come out unto you, and ye shall do as ye please us.
And it shall come to pass on the third day, that thou shalt know it; and thou shalt go unto the place where thou wast hid, when the rest of the merchandise was in hand, and thou shalt stand by the mountain.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was with the children of Israel at that time.
praying for us; for we trust we have a good conscience, being willing to behave ourselves in all things.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber, and made them sit in the best place among them that were invited, who were about thirty persons.
And they said unto him, Hold thy hand upon thy mouth, and lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and come with us, and be for us a father, and a priest. Is it better for a priest for a house of one man, or for a priest for a tribe, and for a family of Israel?
And it came to pass, when David had finished speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
And he sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to the Carmelite; and salute him in my name with peace.
And the boil took up the thigh, and that which was on it, and set before Saul; and he said, Behold, that which is left: set before thee, eat: for to this time it is preserved for thee, saying, The people I have called: and Saul ate with Samuel on that day.
Now there was a young man from Bethlehem in Judah, from the tribe of Judah; and he was a Levite, and dwelt there as a stranger.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou hast slain in the valley of Elah, is bound in a cloth at the back of the ephod: take that, if thou wilt, for there is no other sword here. And David said, There is no sword like that; give it to me.
Jehovah do so, and much more to Jonathan; but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And it came to pass, that from the day that the ark of Jehovah abode in Kiriath-jearim, for it was now the twentieth year; and all the house of Israel came to rest after Jehovah.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and she said, He is sick.
that ye may approve the things which are excellent, that ye may be pure and without fault unto the day of Christ.
Jehovah be judge between me and thee, and the Lord give me my judgment; but my hand shall not be lifted up against you.
And David recovered all that Amalek had taken away; and David took his two wives.
And all the citizens of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the oak which is in Shechem.
And man said unto the angel of Jehovah, I beseech thee, consent to me, and let us dress a young goat for thee.
And it came to pass in the day of the battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul, and with Jonathan his son was there.
Wherefore in all things ought him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And he numbered them in Rithmah: and there were of the children of Israel three hundred thousand, and of the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called it Luz; this is the name thereof unto this day.
And the woman said, Who am I to let thee see? And he said, Let Samuel come up for me.
And they made their heart glad, and, behold, men of the city, men of Belial, have gone round about the house, beating upon the door; and they say unto the old man, the master of the house, Bring out the man that hath come into thine house, and we know him.
And he went away from the city of Bethlehem, and went to the house of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to the house of Micah.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me, what hast thou done? And Jonathan told him, and said, I have tasted with the rod that in my hand a little honey: behold, I die.
And Jesse sent for Abinadab, and made him come before Samuel: and he said, Jehovah hath not taken this man.
Wherefore let us, therefore, receive a kingdom not to be shaken, have grace, that we may serve God with fear and fear.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. And the children of Israel made for themselves the holes that are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent through the border of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out as one man.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who doth tell me? or what thy father will answer thee?
and all that were in distress, and oppressed with debt, and were gathered unto him; and he became their prince, and there were with him four hundred men.
And David said, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath heard that thy servant hath heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and brimstone; and he called the name of it, saying, Arise, Jehovah hath helped us.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, all Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye contended with me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are weary?
saying, Blessed I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee exceedingly.
For God hath exalted him, and given him a name that is above all names:
And the people were sorry for Benjamin, for Jehovah weakened the tribes of Israel.
And the princes of the Philistines gathered themselves together to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered our enemy into our hand.
But to Hananiah he gave a double portion, for he loved it, but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of spoilers, and they spoil them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about; and they could not stand before their enemies.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; wherefore I will not deliver you any more.
And David came to the two hundred men, which were so feeble that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to dwell at the brook: and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and when David came near to the people, he saluted them.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new cords, which are not occupied, then shall I be weak, and be like another man.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is not there a woman among thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou wentest to take a wife of the Philistines? And he said unto his father, Get her for me, for she pleaseth me.
And Samuel took a lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
for those in Aroer, for the moth, and for the moth, for the moth;
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And David said, If now I have found grace in thine eyes, let them give me a place in one of the cities of the land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the king's city with thee?
And when Abiathar the son of Chenaanah went in flight to David, he came down to Keilah with the ephod in his hand.
And her father said, I thought that thou hast utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to thy companion. Is not her younger sister better than she? let her be thine, I pray thee, be thou in her.
And the people, the men of Israel, took their heart, and set up their forces, and set themselves up on the first day.
As he turned his shoulder to depart from Samuel, God changed his heart; and all these signs were fulfilled in that day.
And he said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the nobles, and upon all the people that were therein; and the dead that he slew at his death were more than they that slew him.
Are they not all the spirits of the service? For the service of the ministration is the gift of salvation.
But he that was not numbered by them, receiveth the tenth of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promise.
Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness: because Jehovah hath delivered you into my hand this day, and I will not stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And the trees said unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
For when ye ought to be teachers, ye have need to teach you what the elements of the beginning of God, and are become like milk, not of solid food.
And Saul came near to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, where is the house of the seer?
And the Levite, the husband of the dead, answered, and said, I came into the house of Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge in the night.
And David came to the priest at Nob, and said unto him, ``Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And he had forty sons, and the sons of thirty sons, who rode upon seventy asses: and he judged Israel eight years.
if thou hast dealt faithfully and righteously with baal, and with his house day, then shalt thou rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in thee;
And the children of Israel rose up, and wept, and went after the Philistines to Gath, and to the gate of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines fell by the way of Gath and Ekron.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What is this that is done unto the man that smote this Philistine, and hath turned away the reproach of Israel? for who is this that is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he hath blasphemed the hosts of the living God?
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And David departed thence, and fled to the cave of Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither unto him.
And they sent and gathered all the princes of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to its own place, that it may not kill us, and our people: for there was a great tumult throughout the city: and the hand of God was very heavy there.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valour.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou go mourning for Saul, seeing that I have put him out of his place as king over Israel? take oil in thy vessel, and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the Gittite: for I have made a king for myself among his sons.
Take heed to thyself, and be obedient unto them; for they watch as to give account of your souls, that they may do this with joy, and not with sorrow: for this is not expedient for you.
And David fled, and fled; and he came to Samuel in Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done unto him. Then he and Samuel went and dwelt in Shimron.
And this gift which thy handmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
And they took the vessels of the people, and their horns from their hand, and sent them away, every man to his tent, and kept only the three hundred; and the tents of Midian were lower in the valley.
And it came to pass, when it was said unto the giant, Jonathan is here. So they went round, and beheld him all the day at the door of the city; but at night they kept silence, saying, When day cometh we shall kill him.
But ye have well done, that ye have part with my affliction.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Japhlet, which he sent him.
And they went up into the city; and when they came into the city, behold, Samuel came out unto them, to go up to the high place.
Now therefore command thy servants, that are here before thee, to go in unto thee, and inquire of a skilful workman; and it shall be that when the evil spirit of God is upon you, he shall make melody unto thee upon his instrument, and thou shalt recover.
But the child knew not all these things: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
Then rose up from Gilgal, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah; and Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
and others also are judged of kings and of men of war, and of chains and of bonds.
And no man shall hearken unto thee in this matter: but as for him that went down to battle, and of him that stood in the vessels, and they shall divide together.
And Shammah said unto her, If they bind me with seven green things that are not dried up, then shall I be weak, and be like another man.
For if he were on the earth, he should not be priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn over Saul, seeing I have cast him away from Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the son of Bethlehem; for I have given me a king among his sons.
and that all this congregation may know that Jehovah will not save with the sword and with the spear; for Jehovah's sake is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hand.
Now no correction for the present seem to be glad, but grievous; but afterwards it yieldeth good fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby.
For we have not a high priest that can not be touched with the flesh of our infirmities; but he that is in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin.
And the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the spirit of the Lord afflicted him.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
( Of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in the wilderness, and in the mountains, and in their dens, and in the holes of the earth.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Shushan, king of Syria; and the children of Israel served for eight years.
And there came a man of God unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I openly appear unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
And all those that saw it said, There is nothing like this since the children of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider, consider, and speak.
And David came to the two hundred men, who were so afraid that they could not follow David, whom they had made to dwell in the valley, or that they should go out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him. And David came near to the people, and saluted them.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all your heart, and put away the foreign gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And it came to pass, when they were come to pass, that they fell upon the ground; and they fought against him, and smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
Then said Elkanah her husband unto her, Why are thou weeping? and why hast thou fasted? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
For Jesus is not entered into the most most made with hands, but in the truth, but into heaven, that he may appear now before God for us.
For they had weapons of iron, and with axes, and with axes, and with axes, and with harrows of iron.
And it came to pass in the day of the battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
And it came to pass on the day that Elkanah sacrificed, that he gave to his wife Penuel, and to all her sons and daughters.
So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the remnant of Israel every man unto his tent, and he spared them three hundred men: and the host of Midian was under him in the valley.
And now, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have asked; and, behold, Jehovah hath anointed thee a king.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day, and the battle passed over to Beth-aven.
But, my beloved, we trust good things of you, and nearer to salvation, though we speak thus.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: therefore Jehovah would have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And they came down from the high place to the city, and spake with Saul on the roof.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them; but he drew not his sword: for he was afraid, but yet a child.
But he sware by him that said unto him, The Lord hath sworn, and will not change his mind, Ye are a priest for ever.
Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will no more do thee hurt, because my soul is precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have gone astray.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Jonathan. And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I go forth now, and I am continually shaken. And he knew not that Jehovah had turned away from him.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the cry, they said, What is the voice of this great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And Saul heard that David was found, and the men that were with him: and Saul sat in Gibeah under the oak, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood by him.
And they found Sippai, and they fought against him, and slew the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And it came to pass after him, that he judged the children of Heth, and he judged Israel ten years.
And his mother's brethren spake against him in the hearing of all the masters of Shechem all these words, and their heart clave to Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And David went after him, and he and four hundred men: for two hundred men were not able to go over the river.
And when he heard the dream and the interpretation thereof, he bowed himself down, and returned to the camp of Israel; and he said, Arise, for Jehovah hath given the camp of Midian into thy hand.
And by reason of this ought he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Again he awaketh a day, saying in David, To day, after a time; as it is said, To day shalt thou hear his voice, and harden not your heart.
And they spake unto Sisera, The son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, unto mount Tabor.
And as to the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire:
And the children of Dan sent to spy out the land, and to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, search the land. And they went to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And they did so, and took two kine, which had the calves, and gave them up to the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her companions, and wept upon the mountains.
And the men of Israel sware in Mizpah, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.
But above all means are the better, but the better is blessed by the better.
God spake in many parts, and in many ways to the fathers in the prophets,
Not that I speak in regard of desire: for I have learned, in whatsoever manner I am, therewith it is to be well-pleasing.
And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was careless, gathered themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them, and there were with him four hundred men.
And Jehovah said unto him that night, Arise, go down into the camp; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And he said unto her, Give me a little water to drink, for I thirst. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him a drink, and covered him.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Behold ye whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king.
For such as ye have seen in me, and now hear of me.
and count that even out of the dead God is able to raise up, from whence also he received.
And Samuel brought unto him all the tribes of Israel, and the lot fell upon the tribe of Benjamin.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they dwelt with him all the time when David was in the guard.
And Moses said, I am greatly afraid, and I am afraid.
And he said to the lad, Go, and fetch the arrow, I pray thee, let me loose from my bow. And when he fled, he sent an arrow by him.
Jehovah forbid that I should stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed: but now take, I pray thee, the spear that is at his head and the staff, and let us go.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
And it came to pass afterwards, that the heart of David smote him, because he had cut off the hem of Saul.
And it came to pass on the second day of the new moon, that David's place was looked after, and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore hath the son of Jesse come in, both yesterday or day?
To whom, though he himself was in the likeness of God, it was not that he should take himself to himself as God;
And the three hundred men, and the three hundred men that were with him, went into the middle of the camp, at the beginning of the middle of the night; and the watchmen were afraid, and blew their trumpets, and to clap the bottles one against another.
And he came out of the land of Egypt by faith, and was not afraid of the wrath of the king; for when he saw the vision, he endured.
Therefore Jehovah left the nations, and did not drive them out, nor delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
And the custom of the priests was with the people, when every man offered a sacrifice, and the priest's servant came, when the flesh was boiled, with a pair of fish in his hand;
And he said, They have brought them out of the midst of the Amalekites; and the people have left the best of the sheep and of the cattle, that they may sacrifice them unto Jehovah your God: but the rest have we utterly destroyed.
And the wicked and wicked men among them that went with David said, Because they went not with us, we will give them nothing of the spoil which we have returned, but every man his wife and his children, that he may take them and go.
And the song went up unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid with us in the palaces of the forest, in the height of the height of the wilderness?
And it came to pass, when David was at Nob, unto Abimelech the priest, and Ahimelech, and conspired at the congregation of David, and said unto him, Why art thou thyself alone, and no man with thee?
And now the hair of his head increased.
So he changed his way before them, and made it seem as though he were off his head, and smote the doors of the city, and caused the water to come down out of his mouth.
And Saul, and they, and all the children of Israel, were in the valley of Zephathah against the Philistines.
And Samuel told the people the statutes of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And they drew up their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And she said unto him, I will go indeed with thee; but at this time the victory shall not be imputed unto thee; for a man shall be delivered into the hand of a woman. And there arose a man's journey, and went with a man in the field.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Japhlet, We turn again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And when there was war, David went out, and fought against the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter; and they fled from his face.
Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing.
And it came to pass, when Israel was planted, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east; and they came up against them.
And his friend answered him, and said, This shall not be anything except the sword of the son of Jehoash, the man of Israel: for God hath given Midian and all the host into his hand.
And she made him sleep upon her knees, and called a man, and she made him to shave off the seven hair of his head; and she began to prevail against him, and his strength went out from him.
And Enoch was taken up by faith, so that he died not, and was not found, because God took him up: for before his departure he was justified as having been well-pleasing to God.
For if Joshua had caused them to rest, he spake not of these things concerning these things.
And now, if ye have done the truth and the sincerity, if ye make Abimelech king, and if ye have done good with baal, and with his house; and if thou hast done unto him according to the work of his hands,
And it came to pass, when their heart was full of joy, that they said, ``Send for us a son to mock, that they may mock us. ''And they cast him out of the prison, and mocked him, and set him between the pillars.
And all the men of Israel were gathered together against the city, as one man.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and every man fled to his tent; for the slaughter was very great, and there fell three thousand footmen.
and the children of Israel went after Midian, and the border of Abel, and of the children of Asher; and they cried out after Midian.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth KirjathSepher, and taketh it, will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
but the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the sheep, in the blood of the blood of eternal covenant,
Speak, ye that ride upon the fair asses, And ye that sit in judgment, and walk in the way.
And, behold, a man, an old man, came from his work out of the field in the evening, and the man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he sojourned in Gibeah, and the men of Benjamin.
For patience is needful for you, that, doing the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him; and many fell wounded, even unto the door of the gate.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called it Luz, which is the name thereof unto this day.
And all that generation were gathered unto their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor the works which he had done for Israel.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David; and Jehovah sought from the hand of the enemies of David.
And did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon my altar, to burn incense, to burn incense before me? and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offerings of the fire of the children of Israel.
And he answered them, I and my people were in great strife with the children of Ammon; and I called you to help me, and ye would not do it.
And Saul came after the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh.
Now all the reproof of the present is not good to bring with it joy, but sorrow; but afterwards it shall yield, to them that are exercised by it, even the good fruits of righteousness.
And she arose, and went down upon her face to the earth, saying, Behold, I am ready to be a handmaid, and wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
Though men rise up to pursue you, and to seek thy soul, yet the soul of my lord shall be bound in the sheaf of life with Jehovah thy God; he will sling out the souls of thine enemies as out of a sling.
And the sons of Benjamin went out from Gibeah, and smote on that day twenty-two thousand men of Israel to the ground.
and not to fear in anything of the adversaries, which is to them a sign of destruction, but of your salvation, and of God;
As he saith in another place, Thou art a priest after the order of Melchizedek.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
Now faith is the things that are waiting for, the things which appear not.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their place.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people eat not till he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice; and now they eat that are bidden; and now go up; for this day shall ye find him.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which were taken from thee, and what thou didst curse and speak of mine ears, behold, the silver is with me, and I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah.
And upon the one hand, by reproaches and afflictions, were made a spectacle; and on the other, they were friends of them that were in such manner.
Jehovah do so, and much more to Jonathan; if it please my father to do thee evil, then will I arise, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And he came, and fetched three hundred foxes, and fish of fire; and he set the prey of the sea to the tail, with a stick between the two tails.
that we also may be as all the nations; and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and conduct our wars.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, and said, The son-in-law of the sister of Edom: for he took his wife, and delivered her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
In former times in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come, and let us go to the prophet; for he that is now called a prophet was before the prophet.
even though the men were very good unto us; we were not afflicted, neither did we miss any thing all the days that we went about with them in the field.
And it came to pass, when they came back after David had returned from smiting the Philistines, that the women went out from all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing to meet king Saul with timbrels, and with gladness, and with cornets.
And if they say thus, Come up unto us, then we will go up: for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be the sign unto us.
Then rose up early in the morning to Saul, and said, Saul is gone to Carmel, and behold, he hath set up a pillar for himself. And he turned and passed over, and went down to Gilgal.
And who would hear thee concerning this matter? For as the portion of him that went down into the battle, so shall the portion of him that remaineth with the stuff be, and they shall be alike.
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses.
But now they desire a good country, that say, For one in heaven; and so it is no shame to God to be called their God; for he hath prepared a city for them.
And for forty years the land was quiet, until the death of Othniel the son of Kenaz.
and said unto him, Thus saith the parable, Israel took not the land of Moab, and the land of the children of Ammon;
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rock of the wild goats.
They are far off from the house of Micah; and the men that are in the houses that are near the house of Micah are gathered together, and overtake the children of Dan.
And Jehoash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye contend with Baal? shall ye deliver him? he that contendeth with him shall be put to death by the morning: if he be a god, let him contend for himself, because his altar is torn down.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and took possession of the city of palm-trees.
And when they cried unto the children of Dan, they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
and he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for we have a sacrifice in the city; and my brother himself hath commanded me to be there; and now, if I have found favour in thy sight, let me go, I pray thee, and see my brethren: he is not come to the king's table.
For he saith, I will no more remember their iniquity and their iniquities.
And Abigail came to Nabal the Carmelite; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, as the feast of a king; and the heart of Nabal was merry within him; for he was drunken to faint; and she told him nothing, more or more, until the morning light.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall fear him; And upon them shall he thunder in the heavens; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, And he shall give power to his king, And shall magnify the horn of his Christ.
And it came to pass, when she had multiplied praying before Jehovah, that, being mindful of her mouth,
And Samuel said, As thy sword is bereaved of women, so is thy mother bereaved of women. And Samuel fell before Jehovah in Gilgal.
that Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will slay thee, and I will take away thy head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the army of the Philistines this day to the fowl of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
then I hope to send at once, as soon as I shall see how it goeth with me.
And Saul said, Come near, all ye princes of the people, and let us inquire of God, and see in him this sin this day.
And Saul sent for the people, and had them numbered in number, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; and David put his armour in his tent.
having perfect my joy, so that ye are in agreement, having the same love, joined in spirit, having one purpose.
For to Thessalonica ye sent again, and again to Thessalonica.
( inasmuch as he was not made priest without an oath),
And when Saul saw David coming out to meet the Philistines, he said unto Abner, Whose son is this young man, Abner? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, I know not.
And the man rose to go, he and his concubine, and his young man, and his young father, the father of the young woman, and said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, the day is fallen at the evening, I pray thee: behold, the day is come to the evening. I pray thee, let thy heart be glad, and let thine heart be glad, and go early to thy tent.
And Shammah the son said, I have smitten a ass upon the ass, and I have smitten a thousand of the ass with a sharp ass.
And another company went toward Beth-horon; and another company went toward the way of the valley of Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away his face from his hand, and called that place Ramah.
Fear the falling into the hands of the living God.
And they possessed all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kings that afflicted you.
how much more shall the blood of the Christ, which by the everlasting Spirit have offered himself to God without blemish, cleansing your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
then it shall be, that when all come out of the doors of my house to meet me in my turning back in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be unto Jehovah, or I will offer up for it a burnt-offering.
that by the two table things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have the strength of comfort, who have fled for a place to hold the hope that is set before us.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me, and Jonathan my son: and Jonathan was taken.
But hard food is to mature men, who are members of the world, in the past, in the same way.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and stood at the door of the tower, for the counsel of it.
And he walked in the land of the covenant, and dwelt in the land of the covenant, with Isaac and Jacob, who had a part with him in the midst of the land.
and when the spoil was come, the people took oxen, and oxen, and oxen, and killed them there on the earth, and ate, and took the flesh with the blood in it.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And a man of Benjamin ran out of the ranks, and came into Shiloh, and his long robes rent, and the earth upon his head.
And all the men that were left of all the host of the east were fifteen thousand and Zalmunna, and all that were left of all the host of the east; for there fell one hundred thousand men that drew sword.
And the Spirit of God ran upon him, when he heard these words, and became very wroth.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and women, and all the inhabitants of the city, and shut it to them, and went up to the top of the tower.
And the princes of Issachar, Deborah, and the children of Issachar, and the inhabitants of the valley, were at the valley: for the children of Reuben were in the midst of the valley.
And when she was upon the point of death, they that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son: she answered them not, nor hearkened unto them.
And Jehovah's anger burned against Israel; and he said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hath not hearkened to my voice,
Ye have no pleasure in all burnt-offerings, And sacrifices for sin.
And David called unto David, and said unto him, Jehovah liveth, surely thou art righteous, and good in mine eyes, and thy coming in, with me in the camp; for I have not found thee evil from the day of thy coming in unto me unto this day; and thou art not good in the sight of the princes.
And the Philistines sent for the priests and the wise men, and said unto them, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? how shall we send it away to its place?
And of the angels he saith, He that maketh his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire,
and it is yet more plain: if after the similitude of Malchijah there is a priest,
Oh, that this people were under my hand! then I would take Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy army, and come out.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember what Amalek did unto Israel, how he set himself against him on the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And David pursued, and he and four hundred men, two hundred men, who were too tired to go over the river.
then hear thou also the voice of thy handmaid, that I may set before thee a morsel of bread, and thou shalt eat, that thou mayest have strength in thee, when thou goest on thy way.
And now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Art thou all thy children? And he said, There is yet the youngest, and he looketh after the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and make him come hither: for we will not sit till he is here.
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Jonathan, that he may mock us. And they called for Jonathan the son of the prison, and he played before them; and they set him between the pillars.
and I lay hold upon my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and send her into all the land of Israel; for they have done wickedness and folly in Israel.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of the Temanites, whose name was called by name.
Neither will I cast out from before them any more of the nations which Joshua left when he died:
And he said unto them, I pray thee, let me ask of you a petition, and give unto me every ring of his prey; for they have gold rings of gold, for them.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Shammah the son, and brake the lion, as he had torn a kid in pieces, having nothing at all in his hand; and he told not this to his father and to his mother.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man into his tent; and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that are in him by the light of the morning, so much as one that lieth upon a wall.
And the vine saith unto them, Have I ceased from my new wine, that is, of mirth, and of men, that I have walked through the trees?
For the women received their dead raised again; but others were grieved, not receiving salvation, that they might find a better resurrection.
Now therefore arise, thou and the people that are with thee, and lie in wait in the field;
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the workmen, and the workmen.
and hast done mercy unto thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant with thee into a covenant; and if there be any iniquity in me, put me to death; and to thy father, why do thou bring me in?
In the same way, the more is blessed, and there is no more: There is no more good for them.
And they passed through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but came not in the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Let us keep the witness of our hope and our hope; For he is faithful that hath spoken.
They chose new gods, and war in the gates: was there a shield or a spear among forty thousand in Israel?
And Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of the land, nor the inhabitants of Sela; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became subject to forced labor.
And it displeased Saul exceedingly, and this thing is evil in his eyes; and he saith, They have given to David ten thousand, and to me have they given the thousands, and yet more to him the kingdom.
They answered him, The Lord that heareth these things, he himself is a mediator and a witness, that we may do as we have said.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Up and come, for the Philistines have invaded the land.
And he said unto her, If they indeed bind me with bands, new ones, by which work hath not been done, I am weak, and am as one of the sons of men.
But he that is reckoned by genealogy is not reckoned from them, hath received the tenth of Abraham, and blessed him that hath the word.
For the women go year by year to howl for the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite, four days in every year.
Now ye also know, I have departed from Macedonia, that at the beginning of the good tidings, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly had received with me in the matter of giving and receiving, save you alone;
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second was Abijah; and they judged in Beer-sheba.
What shall I say more? For the time shall not come to pass, for the name of Jehovah, and of the sons of Samuel, and of the sons of Samuel, and of the prophets.
If thy father sinneth against me, then thou shalt say, Thou hast said unto me, Let me go, that he may run to Bethlehem his city; for it is the year of the year of all the house.
For if we sin contrary to the knowledge of the truth, there is now left no sacrifice for sins.
And he said unto them, When the Lord will have delivered them into my hands, I will smite your flesh with the thorns, and with the briers of the wilderness.
And David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of the hill afar off, and there was a space between them.
And Samuel said, What aileth the sheep that I hear in my hearing, and the voice of the cattle that I hear?
And being a son, he learned of his affliction,
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him; and so it was, because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
For God hath not given unto angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
Therefore God exalted him, and gave him the name which is above every name.
Wherefore I trespass not against thee, but thou hast done evil against me by declaring a trespass against me: and Jehovah be judge, and judge this day between Israel and the children of Ammon.
For if the blood of the goats and the bullocks, and the ashes of a cow sprinkle upon them that are unclean, sanctify them for the cleansing of the flesh;
And the people spake unto him according to this word, saying, Thus shall it be done for the man that overcometh him.
And he brought him down, and, behold, they spread abroad upon the face of all the earth, eating and drinking, and drinking, and drinking, and all the great spoil that they took out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
And they rose up, and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the valley of the wilderness.
and where there is no sin, there is no sin offering.
But I thought it necessary to send unto you, my brother, and my fellow-soldier, and fellow-soldier, but your apostle, and he that ministered unto my pleasure.
For I will show mercy unto their righteousness, and I will remember their iniquity and their statutes; I will no more remember them any more.
And there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul there that day stood before Jehovah; and his name was Nehushta, the best of the herdsmen of Saul.
Then went down his brethren, and all the house of his father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zareah, and in the sepulchres of his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
Now therefore know, and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household: for he is a man of Belial, that a man can not speak unto him.
Then said he unto Zebah and Anammelech, Where are the men whom thou hast slain at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and day, as we were with them, and were feeding the sheep.
for the law made nothing perfect, and a present in hope, through which we draw near to God.
And Saul was displeased by the presence of David, because Jehovah was with him, and had departed from off Saul.
And it came to pass, when Samuel had done the work of Jehovah's house, that he was a child, clothed in a linen ephod.
And the king said unto her, Fear not; what hast thou seen? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods going up out of the earth.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Art here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down till he come hither.
Now therefore take, and make a new cart, and two young kine, on which a yoke hath not gone up, and thou hast bound the kine in the cart, and cause their young ones to return from following them to the house;
And he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn should not touch them.
Ask thy servants, and they will tell thee; now let thy servants find favor in thine eyes; for we are come in a good day, and whatsoever thy hand shall find to thy servants, and to thy son David.
For the tabernacle was prepared, and the candlestick, and the table, and the bread, which is called the holy place.
And he said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heaven, and to the beasts of the earth.
And Abimelech came up to the tower, and fought against it; and he came by the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
on the same hand, when ye were made a spectacle both in reproaches and tribulations; and on the other, when ye were partakers with those passing through them.
And behold, as thy life was great unto this day in mine eyes, so let my soul be magnified in the sight of Jehovah, that he may deliver me out of all adversity.
She looketh out through the window; Yea, she crieth out, The mother of Sisera, through the lattice: Wherefore is his chariot grievous to come? Wherefore is the steps of his chariot?
And the husband of her husband said unto her, Why art thou weeping? and why do thou take no bread? why is thy heart troubled? am I not more to thee than ten sons?
And it was so; for he rose early on the morrow, and pressed the wool together, and drinketh the dew from the fleece, a vessel full of water.
And Samuel told him all the way, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which seemeth good to him.
And Ehud made for himself a sword, and it had two mouths a cubit; and he girded it under his right coat upon his right thigh.
Then rose up and wept over him, and said, Verily thou hast no love for me, but hate me; thou hast asked the children of my people, and hast not given me the answer. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not given the answer to my father or to my mother: am I to give it to thee?
For this is the covenant which I will make with the children of Israel after those days: I will put my law into their heart, and write them in their heart; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people:
And the number of them that fell with their hand unto their mouth were three hundred men; and all the people fell upon their knees to drink water.
And David said unto the king, Behold, thou shalt know what thy servant doeth. And he said unto David, Behold, I will keep thee from the hand of my servants.
And the Philistines went up to meet Israel; and the battle was prolonged until Israel was smitten before the Philistines, and slew of them four thousand men.
And David took all the flocks and the cattle, which they drove before them, and said, This is David's spoil.
And blessed be thy counsel, and blessed be thou, that hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and that I may avenge myself with my own hand.
and thou hast declared this day how thou hast done good with me, how Jehovah hath shut me up into thy hand, and thou hast not killed me;
And David called David, and said unto him, Jehovah liveth, thou art righteous, and thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the camp is accepted; for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming to me to this day; but thou art not pleased to the princes.
And they gave to Caleb Hebron, as Moses had said; and he drove out thence the three sons of Anak.
And they delivered none of them, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no business with the Syrians; and it was in the valley of Beth-Rehob, and they built the city again.
And the Philistines came and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
and that thou hast done nothing good: as Jehovah liveth, surely ye are worthy of death, because thou hast not watched over thy lord, the anointed of Jehovah; therefore therefore behold the king's spear, and the pitcher of water that is near his head.
But this is the sign, that when it is moved, that which is shaken, when it is made, that which is not shaken may remain.
And Saul went to his house at Gibeah, and the host went with him whose heart God had touched.
Then David and his men, about six hundred, arose, and departed from Keilah, and went wheresoever they should go; and it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, and he bare to go forth.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day; and now let me smite him with the spear, even to the ground once, and I will not do it the second time.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel; and he fought against all his enemies, and against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he was troubled whithersoever he went.
If one trespass against another, the judge shall judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall pray for him? But they did not hearken unto the voice of their father; for Jehovah would slay them.
Now when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard of it, and were afraid.
And thou shalt call Jesse unto the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou art to do; and thou shalt anoint him whom I shall show thee.
And the Philistines stood upon the mount on one side; and Israel stood on the mount on the other side; and there was a valley between them.
And Jotham fled, and fled, and went to Beer-sheba, and dwelt there, because of Abimelech his brother.
And she said unto Shammah, Tell me, I pray thee, in the which thy great power and wherewith thou art bound to afflict thee.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Let me tell you a riddle now: if thou canst tell me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give thee thirty linen garments, and thirty changes of raiment;
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey dropped; but no man put his hand to his mouth: for the people feared the oath.
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was not found sword and spear in the hand of any people that were with Saul and Jonathan; and there was found to Saul and to Jonathan his son.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship, and to sacrifice to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh; and the two sons of Heli, the chief singer, and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah were there.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two cups of wine, and five sheep prepared, and five measures of raisins, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred figs, and laid them on asses.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah gave the voice and rain that day; and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And the house of Joseph spied out Beth-el; and the name of the city was Luz.
And all the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And they all received witness by faith, and received not the promise.
If only I had power over this people, and I would appoint Abimelech out of the way, and say unto him, Make thy army strong, and come forth.
And Saul went forth to his own house at Gibeah; and there went with him a portion of the army, whose heart God had touched.
And it came to pass, when she had done so, that she took him with her, with a whole year old bullock, and an ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was yet very young.
and to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled of blood than of Abel.
For we are fellow-partakers of Christ: yet, if we keep the beginning of his substance unto the end.
And he said unto them, Is ye the avenger of Baal, that ye fight for him? he that is his adversary, let him die before the day light: if he be a god, let him avenge himself on him that hath cast down his altar.
But he would not, saying, I have no desire for bread; but his servants, and the woman, made him eat, and he gave them food; and he rose up from the earth, and sat upon his bed.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time that he had said to David, and he had a child with him.
For it was made him, for whom all things, and by him all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make perfect the ruler of their salvation through the sufferings.
having tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world,
For a little and a little while, and he that is to come, shall come, and shall not tarry.
And Jacob, when he was dying, blessed all the sons of Joseph, and worshipped him, and leaned upon his staff.
And Saul clothed David with his dress, and put a chain of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a girdle.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and smote him as he would have torn a kid; and he had nothing in his hand; but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
and I say unto you, I am Jehovah your God; ye shall not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not hearkened to my voice.
that thou shouldest not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land, but cast down their altars, and hear not my voice: why hast ye done this?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose early in the morning, and he rose to go; and the father of the damsel said unto his daughter-in-law, Hold thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward shalt thou go on.
And Saul feared David more; and Saul became the enemy of David continually.
And David rose up early, he and his men, to go in the morning to return unto the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and saddled the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed himself to the ground;
And he said, My son Samuel. And Samuel answered, Here am I.
And the three hundred sounded the trumpets; and Jehovah set the sword of every man against his friend, even through all the camp; and the camp fled unto Beth Jeshimoth, to the border of Abel the Meholathite, by the bath.
For the law maketh men priests, who have infirmities; but the word of the oath, which was according to the law, the Son, who is made perfect for evermore.
For he is counted worthy of greater glory than Moses: how much more he that built it is more honorable than the temple.
And the Lord called yet again, and rose up, and came to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son, lie down again.
Now therefore, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may serve Jehovah.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my law into their heart, and write them in their hearts; and I will be unto them a God, and they shall be unto me a people.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Geba.
And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a fair countenance: but the man was corrupt and evil in his works: and he was a companion of Caleb.
And when they went forward, and had set before them the children, and the cattle, and all that was precious,
And now proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him go again, and turn again from mount Gilead: and there went from the people two thousand men, and there remained ten thousand.
And David said unto Abimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me to do something, and he hath said unto me, Let no man know of the business of which I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee: I have sent the young men into a certain place.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer, and all his men that same day.
And Jehoahaz the son of Joash died in a good old age; and he was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the house of Eglah.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
They were left to tempt Israel, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And Jesse caused seven of his sons to pass by the presence of Samuel; and Samuel said to Jesse, Jehovah hath not put these things upon these.
And the children of Israel served Eglon, for eighteen years.
And Saul besought Jehovah; and Jehovah answered him not by dreams, nor by the Urim, nor by the prophets.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel: and afterward, saith Jehovah, I will put my law in their heart, and I will write them upon their heart, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
As a servant of the holy things, and of the testimony, which is by God, not by man.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab, in the height; and Eleazar his son they sanctified to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall deliver them as Zebah and Zalmunna, I will smite thy flesh with thorns of the wilderness, and with thorns.
And Jesse took a ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
And in another he saith, Thou art a priest unto the age, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And it came to pass, that at the year of her that went up into the house of Jehovah, it provoketh her, and she wept, and did not eat.
The voice of Jehovah spake unto Samuel, and he said, Here am I.
And the children of the Kenites, the kinsman of Moses, went up from the city of palm, and the children of Judah into the wilderness of his inheritance, which is at the south side of Arad; and they dwelt with him.
to perfect you in every good work to the doing of his will, which is well-pleasing before him through Jesus Christ, to whom glory for ever. Amen.
And Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of Siddim, fought against the Philistines.
And they sent ten thousand of the mighty men, and commanded them, saying, Go, and put the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead to the sword, with their wives and their children.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall abide in thy house, shall come that he may pray for, and offer a piece of silver, and a roll of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, to a priest, that I may eat a piece of bread.
For we also have had the good tidings preached unto us, as they also did; but the word which they heard did not profit them, because they were not united with them that heard it in faith.
And he said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite, the son of Bethlehem, and I seek a place to live.
And the king sent for Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of the house of his father that were at Nob; and they all came to the king.
And Abimelech came by the tower, and fought greatly: and he came to the gate, and hasted to set fire thereon.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David, and they told him, and it pleased him.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before thee, and gave you their land.
And, behold, there was a man following after him; and he went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, be thou seen a lying dead, and the nail fastened in his temples.
And Jonathan called for David; and Jonathan told him all these words; and Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was before him as before.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And the number of them that had broken water casting it with the hand to their mouth, were three hundred men: and all the multitude of the multitude were drunken.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Where goest thou? and whence camest thou?
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have heard the voice of Jehovah, and have gone on the way that Jehovah hath sent me: I have brought the king of Amalek against Agag, and I have utterly destroyed Amalek.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And Abimelech was told that all the nobles of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
And he thirsted, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great salvation: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised.
And Moses hid himself in his father three months after his birth, because they saw that he was a fair child: and they feared not the king's commandment.
But there is no doubt that the greater receive the greater.
For he that sanctify, and those that are sanctified, are all of one: for he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying,
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have here at hand, the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that I may give unto the man of God, to tell us our way.
Nay, my sons; for the report which I hear is not good to cause the people of Jehovah to transgress.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may give thee into the hand of the Philistines. And he said unto them, Swear to me, that ye may not fall upon me.
And they went out into the field, and reaped the vineyards, and stamped the grapes, and went into the house of their god, and ate and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sin.
And one of the young men's young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our master, and he hath reproached them.
and we desire every one of you the same diligence to shew, unto the full assurance of the hope unto the end,
And he did so so year by year, as oft as she went up into the house of Jehovah, she provoked her; and she wept, and did not eat.
She hath stretched out her hand to the hammer, and her right hand to the hammer; and she giveth to Sisera a blow, and crushing his head, and wound, and scattereth through his face.
There was no lack of them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, nor spoil, nor anything that they had taken to them. And David brought back all.
that we may keep the hope of the hope of the hope, for the faithful he that hath promised.
And their iniquities and their iniquities will I remember no more.
But they slew the fat of the sheep, and the fat, and the oxen, and the fat, and the fat, and that which was good, and that which was good, not willing to put them to the curse; but all that was evil, and that they should not curse.
And he had a mitre of brass upon his head; and he was clothed in a brazen garment, five thousand shekels of brass.
And Michal let David down through the window, and went away, and fled, and escaped.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; before Jehovah is your way wherein ye go.
who lack not daily as the former high priests, to offer sacrifice for his own sins, and for the sins of the people, because he did this day, when he offered himself.
And they came up out of Egypt, and Israel went through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
Nay, my sons, for it is not good that I hear: Ye make the people of Jehovah transgress.
Now this man was called the wife of Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail; and she was a woman of discretion, but the man was cruel and evil in his ways: he was of the family of Caleb.
And the parable of them sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon.
And every priest shall stand daily, and the same sacrifice many times, which can not be cleansed.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with the Philistines.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitant of that land.
And it came to pass, when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, saying, Thou hast said unto me, We will not do any more of this thing: we will have a king for our lord, when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
and let us draw near with a true heart in the fulness of faith, having our heart loosed from an evil conscience; and our body washed with pure water.
And he stood, and called to the battle against Israel, and said unto them, Why art ye come out to battle against the battle? Am I not the Philistines, and ye the servants of Saul? persecute ye a man, and let him come down to me.
that he might deliver them all, who were afraid of death, all their days under bondage.
And the Philistines went and came near unto David; and the man that bore the shield went before him.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this people have transgressed my covenant that I commanded their fathers, and have not obeyed my voice,
And Saul and his son Jonathan, and the people that were left with them, dwelt in Geba Geba; and the Philistines encamped at Michmash.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all thy heart; for behold what great things he hath done for thee.
And Abimelech dwelt in the field of the field; and the children of Heth cast out her suburbs, and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
Therefore receive a kingdom that can not be shaken, let us have grace, through which we serve God in kindness, with fear and fear;
And David arose, and his men, about six hundred men, and they went forth from Keilah, and went up, and went down; and Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah; and he ceased to go out.
And it came to pass, that, behold, she conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel: because she had called him of the Lord.
And the wife of Phinehas the wife of Phinehas was great with child, and near her time; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and her father was dead, and her husband died, she bowed herself and fell in labor: for her pangs came upon her suddenly.
And they showed no mercy unto the house of Jerubbesheth, according to all the good that he had done to Israel.
And he brought down the people with the waters, and said unto him, Thou shalt cut off all that lift up the waters, that they may drink with his tongue, as a dog from them that bow down.
And Jehovah smote the Gibeonites seventy men of the men of Bethshemesh, for they looked into the ark of Jehovah; and great was the sorrow of the people for the destruction which Jehovah had sent upon them.
And these were born of one man, and he was as good as dead, as the stars of heaven in number, and as the sand by the sea.
And there came upon the mount ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel; and the battle was sore; but they knew not that evil was near them.
and they possessed all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: for Jehovah hath sought for himself a man after his own heart; and Jehovah hath made him ruler over his people; for ye have not kept that which Jehovah commanded you.
Now therefore let the Lord deal with Jonathan, and upon Jonathan, and upon the king's will, and if I do not bring it to thee, and send thee word, that thou mayest go in peace; and may Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And Moses believed in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of the things that were to be spoken.
But the men of Israel were troubled that day; and Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth bread until the evening, and I am avenged on mine enemies: and none of the people tasted bread.
For every head of the priest, out of the hands of men, is set apart for men unto God, that he may offer both things and sacrifices for sin,
So he brought them before the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the days that David was in the stronghold.
Do not put thy handmaid before a foolish woman; For from the abundance of my meditation, and from my provocation, I have spoken hitherto.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went to his house; and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before was Kirjathsepher.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
For all Israel and Judah love David, when he goeth out and cometh in before them.
Wherefore I sware unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of the house of the house of God should not be purged for ever, nor by offering for ever.
And they were many priests, because they had not suffered for the death of death.
Then shalt thou go out from thence, and thou shalt come to the valley of Tabor; and there shall meet thee three men going up to Bethel, one bearing three young goats, and one bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
And all the people rose up as one body, saying, None of us shall go to his tent, neither shall we return any of us to his house.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, The son-in-law of the sister of Serah, because he hath taken his wife, and delivered her to his friend. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not dwell with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon our god Dagon.
And he said unto his young, Run, find out the arrows which I shoot: and as the lad ran, he shot an arrow on him.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for thee.
And he said, They were my brethren, even the children of my mother: As Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man? and who is like thee in Israel? why have thou not kept the watch of thy lord the king? for one of the people came to destroy thy lord the king.
For verily he giveth no help to angels, but giveth to the seed of Abraham.
And Samuel took a fat lamb, and set it up as a burnt offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
And it came to pass, when the time was fulfilled after the time of the month, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have called him of Jehovah.
And Moses said, I am with thee, and I am afraid.
For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
and make straight paths for thy feet; that which is lame shall not be shed, but be healed.
And Moses, when he was born three months, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a fair child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these great gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Yet Jehovah raiseth up judges, Who delivereth them out of the hand of them that despoil them.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, That is so, that we have returned unto you, that ye may go with us to fight against the children of Ammon, and be for us the head of all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Achbor the son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
of whom the world was not worthy, wandering in the wilderness, and upon the mountains, and in caves, and in holes, and in holes.
since he suffered many times to suffer from the foundation of the world: but now he was manifested in the end of the world for putting away sin by his sacrifice.
Now the righteous shall live by faith: but if any man go, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And Adoni-zedek said, There were threescore thousand and ten kings, having their thumbs and toes, and they gathered their meat under my table: as I have done, so God hath recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
And the children of Dan went away: and Micaiah saw that they were too strong for him; and he turned and returned to his house.
And he lighted the lamps, and let the foxes go into the standing corn of the Philistines; and he burned up both the stacks of corn and the standing corn, even to the vineyards of the olive grove.
For we enter into the rest, we that believed, as he said, So I sware in my wrath, if they enter into my rest: and yet the works were done from the foundation of the world.
And she blessed Elkanah, and his wife; and he said, Jehovah give thee a seed of this woman in place of the damsel, in the place of the Lord. And they went to their own house.
And he kept the passover by faith, and put the blood of the blood upon the houses, that the angel of perdition slew not their firstborn children.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon had made war against Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to search themselves out of the land of Tob.
But ye have this day rejected your God, who hath delivered you out of all your troubles and your troubles, and said unto him, Nay, but a king shalt thou set over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
For ye have conspired all of you against me; and there is none uncovered my son's covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of you grieved for me, and hast uncovered mine ear, that my son hath raised up my servant against me, to lie in wait as this day.
And they took their daughters unto women, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
And they said, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and every man cast the rings of his prey into it.
Ye delight not in all the burnt-offerings, and in the offerings of sin.
and I went out, and stood by the side of my father in the field where thou goest; and I spake of thee unto my father, and have seen what is come, and have told thee.
For every one understandeth not the things that are his, but the other.
For I am able to do all things through the Christ which strengtheneth me.
For those of us that believe come into his place; as he hath said, as I have spoken in my wrath, they shall not come into my rest, though the works were done since the days of the world.
And when the people saw him, they praised their God; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands the one that fought against us, who made our land desolate, and slew us many.
As saith the parable of the elders, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked; But mine hand shall not be upon thee.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it out of the stone of Ashdod.
And as it is appointed unto men to die, but after this judgment,
And the Philistines said, I have defied Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight together.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will fulfill against thee all that I have spoken against his house, from the beginning to the end.
And they rose early in the morning, and bowed themselves before Jehovah, and turned back, and came in unto their house in Ramah; and Elkanah knew the name of his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
For I know that this shall turn out for me salvation, by your supplication, and by the Spirit of Jesus Christ:
And the children of Israel were servants unto Eglon, king of Moab eighteen years.
And now, call, I pray thee, in the ears of the people, saying, Whoso fear and trembling, let him turn again, and go early from the mountain of Gilead: and there shall be returned from the people twenty and two thousand, and ten thousand men.
and others being tempted, and mocked, and bound, and bound, and bound,
And he smote it into the pan, and the pot, and the pot, and the pot, and the pot; and all that the plague brought up the priest took for himself. And they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came thither.
And she was grieved in soul, And prayeth unto Jehovah, and wept greatly.
And he said again to God, Let not thy wrath be kindled against me, if I go once more, and seek a sign in the fleece of the fleece. I pray that the wool only may be dry, and all the ground wet with dew.
And the men of the city rose early in the morning, and behold, the altar of Baal, and the Asherim, that were beside it, were cut down, and the second ox was offered upon the altar that was built.
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child near to be delivered. And when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband died, she bowed herself and gave birth; for her pangs came upon her.
And he cried to his servants, and said unto him, Take thy sword, and destroy me, that they may not speak of me, that they may not say of me, his death was the work of a woman: and the young man put his sword through him, and slew him.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he selleth them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And the wall of Jericho fell upon the wall of Jericho seven days.
And when she had gotten a ass, and came down to the mountain, David and his men came down against her, and she met them.
how much more could have been done if the people had eaten willingly to-day out of the spoil of their enemies that they had found; for now the loss of the Philistines is not great.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon them, and passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and passed through the land of Gilead, and from Mizpah to the children of Ammon.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, in a place that is on the north side of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south side of the wall.
And the people went upon the prey, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and they ate them with the blood.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and rebel against what Jehovah saith, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
And the men of that city rose early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal destroyed, and the Asherah cut down, and the second bullock laid on the altar, which then was built.
For I have told you many many things, and now they weep against Christ.
that neither father, or mother, or house, having no birth, and having no end to his life, being made like the Son of God, is a priest for ever.
For he that is of these things shall be of the tribe of the tribe, from which there is no man at the altar.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast done me good, and I have done thee evil.
And he said unto them, Out of the flesh came forth meat, and out of the mighty came forth sweet; and they could not tell the words three days.
For we know that he that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will repay; and again, The Lord will judge his people.
For we have not a high priest who can vex our infirmities, but tempted in all things, sin apart.
And the children of Ammon warred against Israel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but me, that I should not reign over them.
And Saul said unto his servants, Provide, I pray thee, for I am a man that is merry with me.
And Jonathan rose from the table in great anger, and did not eat bread on the second day after the new moon; for he was grieved for David, because his father had put him to shame.
And there came out a man out of the camp of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath, and he was greater cubits tall.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared no more to man, and to his wife: and they knew that it was the angel of Jehovah.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring near the ark of God, for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
and that he may bring in the firstborn to the world, he saith, And let them kneel before him, all the angels of God.
And the king said, Thou shalt certainly die, thou, and Ahimelech, and all thy father's house.
If then there be any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any man's fellowship of spirit, if any of his bowels and compassion,
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
Go now, make haste, and know, and see, and see his place where his house is, and who hath seen him there; for I am told that he dealeth very crafty.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Arise, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
For the work of Christ he came nigh to death, and his life to him to accomplish that which was lacking in your service toward me.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, that both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And said unto her, How long are thou to be the worse to drink? Put away thy wine from you.
And Jehovah appeared again at Shiloh; for Jehovah showed himself to Samuel at Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
From henceforth wait till his enemies be made his footstool.
And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, get thee down from Amalek, lest I destroy thee with him: for thou hast shewn mercy unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the Kenites departed from Amalek.
And Samuel offered the burnt offering; and the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel; and Jehovah thundered with a great tumult upon that day upon the Philistines, and troubled them, and they were smitten before Israel.
And God rent the hollow of the den, and water came out from it; and he drank, and his spirit returned, and he came to life: and he called his name the Well of Blessing, which is in a den unto this day.
And with whom was he offended forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcases were overthrown in the wilderness?
And David consulted the Lord, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and thou shalt smite the Philistines, and save the Philistines.
And the three born of Jesse went with Saul to the battle: and the name of the three that went to war was Eliab the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and Shammah the third.
And they answered and said, He is; behold, he is before thee: make haste now, for he came to-day to the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together with their armies, and gathered themselves together at Gath, which is in Judah, and encamped between them and Azekah, at the time of Meribah.
and make straight paths for thy feet; that which is lame be not turned aside; but that, that it may be healed.
And he answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
But ye are not unto blood against the blood of sin.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah shewed himself to Samuel in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
And there was a trembling in the camp, and in the field, and in the midst of all the people; and the garrison, and the bands, trembled; and the earth shook, and there was an exceeding great earthquake.
And of all this people there were seven hundred chosen men left, every one to cast stones upon their heads, and they were not missing.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them through all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever shall not come forth after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out as one man.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
And there was a man of the servants of Saul on that day, that stood before Jehovah; and his name blasphemeth the Edomites, the chief of the shepherds, whom Saul had.
And he smote the king of the Amalekites with them, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Why are thou weeping? and why hast thou fasted? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
and said, Jehovah, God of Israel, why is it come to pass in Israel, that there should be one tribe in Israel?
And he sent out over all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come ye down against Midian, and pass over the Jordan before them. And all the men of Ephraim, all the men of Ephraim, shall be gathered together, and shall go over the Jordan.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thine heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their old age.
And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were again again unto Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
But I ought to send unto you, my brother, my brother, my fellow-soldier, and my fellow-soldier, and your apostle, and my servant.
But if thou still do evil, destruction shall overtake thee and thy king.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved, and desire for, my joy and my crown, stand fast in the Lord, beloved.
And he had a son, and his name Saul, a noble child and fair; and there was not a man among the children of Israel, than he, from his shoulder and upward, above all the people.
And the princes of the Philistines brought up unto her seven hundred instruments, which were not dried up, and bound him with them.
And when the child was gone, David rose up from the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and fell three times; and they kissed one another, and wept one with another; and David wept the most.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag the third day, that the Amalekites had made a raid in the south, and in Ziklag, and smote in Ziklag, and burned it with fire,
And Saul turned him away from him, and set him to himself head of a thousand; and he went out before the people.
And they gave him a piece of figs of figs, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him: for he had eaten no bread, and drank no water for three days and three nights.
She sendeth forth her hand to the girdle, And her right hand to the workers of the workers; And she beat his head; Yea, she smote his head; Yea, she smote it, and passed through his temple.
And the king said unto the couriers that stood over him, Put ye the priests of Jehovah to death: for they are on David's side, and in his knowledge, and did not answer me: but the servants of the king would not put out their hands against the priests.
And Ehud went forth into the midst, and shut the doors of the summer house upon him, and lay them up.
And now, as I know that thou shalt surely be king, and hast the kingdom of Israel in thy hand,
And they said unto them, Come, let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and it is very good: will ye do nothing? do not delay to go in to possess the land.
And he said unto them, Out of the fruit came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweet; and they could not three days explain the parable.
And he said unto them, See me, and do likewise: behold, when I come unto the uttermost part of the camp, it shall be that it shall be that ye do.
And they said unto him, Seek us from God, that we may see if the way wherein we go shall be good.
When David heard that the man of Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath justified the cause of Nabal the Carmelite, and hath kept back his servant from evil: but Jehovah hath brought back the evil of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and spake with Abigail to take her for his wife.
From Ephraim is their root unto Amalek, And after thee, O Benjamin, with thy seed; From Machir the captains went down, And from Zebulun the prince of the host.
And the men that died not were smitten with the prey: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
And the Lord called Samuel the third time, and rose up, and came to Eli.
And when Samuel died, all Israel gathered together, and mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah; and David rose up, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
But this will we do if God suffer.
and remember those that are in chains, as though ye were bound with them, and those that are in trouble, as members of the body.
And the men of Judah said, Why have ye come up against us? And they said, We have come up to take up the son, and to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And these all, having been testified by the faith, received not the promise,
but they went up first, and wept before Jehovah until night, and consulted him, and said, Shall I go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin my brethren, or not? And he said unto them, Go up against them, and fight against them.
And Jehovah called again the third time; and he arose, and came to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And she knew that Jehovah had called the child.
For indeed he was sick, almost to death; but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also upon me also, that I should not be sorrowful.
And Abimelech went to smite him, and encamped at Thebez, and took it.
For the ground that drinketh the rain, which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs for them, to whom it is sown, is a blessing from God.
And from thence he went up against the people of Debir: ( the name of Debir was Kirjath.)
who serve the pattern and the shadow of the heavens, according as Moses was commanded to make the tabernacle; for behold, saith he, that thou hast made all things according to the pattern which was shewn thee in the mount.
But faith is the things which are waiting for, and the sign which is not seen is true.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that smote Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But if ye will not obey the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
Abraham did as God said by faith, when he was commanded to go forth into a place that was given unto him, and went out without knowledge where he went.
And the Philistines came and drew near against David, and his armor before him.
and they said these things, and cast away from their coasts all the idols of strange gods, and served Jehovah their God; and he was touched with their miseries.
Do all things without strife and contention;
Then he disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went, and went, and two men with him; and they came to the woman by night; and he said unto her, Take me by thy enchantments, and bring me up to him whom I shall tell thee.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do that which pleaseth thee. Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.
And Shammah said unto her, If there be seven cords in which have not been made dry, I will faint and be like one other man.
And he said unto them, Come after me; for Jehovah hath given the Moabites thy enemies into your hand. So they went down after him, and took the valley of the Jordan against Moab, and let none go over.
But one of the young men said unto Abigail, the wife of Nabal, who sent men out of the wilderness to speak kindly unto our lord, and he answered them roughly.
And the wall of Jericho fell upon the wall of Jericho seven days.
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; Let them deliver thee in the time of thy trouble.
And Jesse made his seven sons come before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not taken any of these.
So David arose, and fled on that day from the presence of Saul; and he came to Elasah the king of Gath.
And Joshua died, the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, a hundred and ten years old.
And Saul answered and said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, even of the least of the tribes of Israel, and the head of my house, or of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? why do ye speak unto me in this way?
The tithe of thy seed, and of the fruit of thy vine, he shall give to his servants.
And the sons of Benjamin came out to meet the people; and they were drawn away out of the city, and smote the people, and smote the people in the way by the way to Bethel, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of the children of Israel.
who is the glory of the glory, and the glory of his stature, which bringeth up all things by the word of his might, having made a cleansing of our sins, sat down at the right hand of the glory in the highest,
And she said unto her, How long will ye be as one that is drunken? put away thy wine.
And came up, and told his father, and to his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines: and now take her for me for a wife.
And when the people saw the people, he said unto the Kenites, Behold, there come men down from the top of the mountains. And the Kenite said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains, as if they were men.
And Hananiah prayed, and said, My heart is glad in Jehovah, and my strength is exalted in Jehovah; and I have erred in mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul bowed himself before Jehovah.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David stand before me, for he hath found grace in my sight.
And he called to the young man bearing his armor; and he said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me, that they may not say of me, A woman killed him. And the young man smote him, and he died.
And Jonathan said unto David, What thy soul may say, I will do it for thee.
And Saul said, Let us fall upon the Philistines by night, and destroy them till the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And the people said, Do all that pleaseth thee. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither unto God.
to whom Abraham gave also the tenth part of all; first being the king of righteousness, and the king of Salem, which is king of peace.
For unto you it is given for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him.
And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
And they called the name of the city Dan after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: howbeit the name of the city was Laish.
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants thereof, and the cities thereof, and the cities thereof, and the cities thereof, and the inhabitants of Dor, and the inhabitants thereof, and the inhabitants of Ibleam, and the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the inhabitants of Megiddo, and the inhabitants thereof; and the Canaanites were determined to dwell in this land.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Go not in this place, but go into the land of Judah. Then David went away, and came to the forest of Edom.
And she rode upon her ass, and came down by the den of the mount; and behold, David and his men came down to her, and she met them.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will accomplish against thee all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even unto the end.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah, in the land of Saul.
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness to the top of Rimmon; and they gathered of them five thousand men in the highways, and pursued after them until they were wont, and slew two thousand men of them.
And they took all the flocks and herds, and drove them before him, saying, These are David's.
and the gold, and the mouse, one for every city of the Philistines, and the field of the five lords, and the fortified cities, and the great stone, where they set the ark of Jehovah in the field of Joshua the Gittite unto this day.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
And David answered and said unto the priest, Behold, women have been kept from us; and as soon as I have gone out the arms of the young men were made holy, even though it was a very great journey; how much more shall their hands be made holy.
And God exalted him, and gave him the name above every name.
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and took his charge, and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the utmost defense, and the army that went forth to battle with the battle.
harden not your heart, as in the transgression, as in the day of the trial in the wilderness;
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the commandment, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
And David hid himself in the field; and it was the new moon, and the king sat at meat to eat.
So they went on their way, and put the little ones, and the oxen, and the spoil before them.
And the men of Judah said, Why have ye come up against us? And they said, To bind up our son we have come up, to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
For I am very hard between the two, having a desire to go away and to be with Christ:
And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for the men despised the offering of Jehovah.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded for you.
And they sent and gathered together all the rulers of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return into its own place, and not kill us and our people.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the cry, and said, What is the voice of this great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul, when he heard the tidings, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after covetousness, receiving a bribe, and perverted judgment.
And the women sang one another, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
Do not take thy handmaid for a woman of Belial: For out of the abundance of my grief and vexation of my vexation have I spoken very much.
And the children of the Philistines were for the Philistines, who had gone up with them into the camp; and they turned round, even to Israel, with Saul and Jonathan.
And it came to pass, when Samuel had told the people the reign of the kingdom, and he wrote the statutes in a book, and laid it before Jehovah. Then Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his own house.
This is the thing that saith: We have a high priest, who sat down at the right hand of the throne of the king in heaven,
Then he called David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou art righteous and good in my sight; and so is thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the army; and I have not found my evil in thee, since thou camest unto this day: but thou favorest not the princes.
And Jehovah sent to destroy Baal, and Ziza, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies round about, and ye dwell securely.
And the Philistines went up against the battle; and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man to his tent; and great was the slaughter, and slew of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
who in the days of his flesh offered up both supplications and supplications, with a loud voice and crying, to him that was able to save him from death: and he was heard as a result of his fear.
In the days of Sambmoth, the son of Shelomoth; in the days of shiloi the goings down: and they that went by, walked by the way.
And they took the things which Micah had made, and the priest that he had, and came unto Laish unto a people that were at quiet and safe; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the camp was troubled, and cried and howl, and fled away.
Only of meats, and drinking, and diverse spots, and custom of the flesh, laid fast unto the time of righteousness.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put his head upon his head, and covered it with a girdle.
who having been made perfect, became unto all those that obey him, the God of eternal salvation,
Now the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the Spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
And Saul took him that day, and suffered him not to return to his father's house.
making my joy full of joy, in the same manner of mind, having the same love, being of one mind;
Neither yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the most most holy, every year with the blood of others;
And they sent to David, saying, The Philistines also fought against Keilah, and they took the threshing-floor from the threshing-floor.
And he shall tithe thy flock, and thou shalt be his servants.
And it came to pass after him, that after him, the son of Bethlehem, the son of Bethlehem, judged Israel.
And a vow vowed unto Jehovah, saying, If thou wilt deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
And thou shalt put the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the golden images, which thou shalt offer for sin in a chest by the side thereof; and thou shalt send it away, that it may go.
Although God spake long ago in many parts, and in many ways to the fathers by the prophets,
And he came to the house of his father in Haran, and slew his brethren the sons of Baal, seventy men, upon one stone; and there remained only Jotham the youngest son of Baal, who was hid.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew in that day, when the Edomites were there, that he would tell Saul: for I am the blood of all the house of thy father.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And he said unto Abiathar the priest the son of Hammelech, Bring me here to the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
And when she heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth this uproar? And the man came in haste, and told him, saying,
And she sent and called the son of Abinadab, the son of Beeri, and said unto him, Did not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded? Go and go toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun;
And it was so from that day, that he made it a statute and a statute unto Israel unto this day.
And thou shalt not only pass before me, but shew me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not.
So Saul removed him from before him, and made him captain of a thousand; and he went in and forth before the host.
For God is my witness, how I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.
These are of love, knowing that I am set for the charge of the gospel.
And he said, Hear now, ye son of Ahitub. And he said, Here am I, my lord.
Grace be with all of you.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near to one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And he had thirty sons and thirty daughters, whom he sent abroad, and took in thirty daughters for his sons; and he judged Israel seven years.
saying, Verily I will bless thee, and I will greatly multiply thee.
And there was a certain man of the servants of Saul there that day, in the midst of the tabernacle of Jehovah; and his name was called of Edom, the chiefest of Saul's herdsmen.
And they would not hearken unto their judges; but they went after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obeying the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
Moreover he shall take the tithe of thy corn, and of the fruit of thy vineyards, to give his eunuchs and his servants.
And he said, I am afraid, O Jehovah Jehovah: for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
And Saul said nothing that day: for he thought that it might have come to him, that he was not clean, nor cleansed.
And the Philistines said, I have mocked the multitude of Israel this day: give me a man, and we fight together.
And when he was come to a troop, the Philistines cried against him, and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords that were upon his hands were as white in flax that are burning with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And he restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I have dedicated the silver to Jehovah out of my hand for my son, to make a graven image and molten image; and now I will restore it unto thee.
And I beseech thee, that there be a helper in my work, to see the needs of these women that ministered unto me in the good tidings, and the rest of my brethren, whose names are in the book of life.
And they inquired again of Jehovah, saying, Hath the man come hither? And Jehovah said, Behold, he hideth himself among the stuff.
And she left him, and returned to her father's house in Bethlehem, and abode with him four months.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon the rock over thence, and pour out the pottage over them. And he did so.
And the Philistines stood on this side, and the children of Israel stood on the mountain on that side, and the valley between them.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate; and they gave him water to drink.
not that I seek after the present: but I seek after the fruit that is overflowing unto you.
And I beseech thee, my perfect one, help the women that have laboured with me in the good tidings, and the rest of my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
And the Philistines persecuted Saul and his sons; and the Philistines smote Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
but Christ, as the Son over his house, whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence, and the glory of hope is to the end.
And they gave him a piece of figs, and two cakes of raisins, and ate, and this revived; for he had not eaten bread, nor drunk water for three days and three nights.
And he said unto him, If I have found favor in thine eyes, shew me a sign that thou speakest with me.
We have an altar from which the priests that are in the tabernacle do not eat bread.
And David rose up afterward, and went forth out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king! And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed himself with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
For a land, and drink in the plentiful rain, and that bringeth forth good plants for them to whom it is wrought, hath a blessing from God:
And why will ye harden your heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? and when he had wrought mightily with them, did they not let them go, and they departed?
And the kine went straight on the way to Bethshemesh; and they went by the same side, as they went; and they turned not to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
And they rose up in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah; and they returned, and entered into their house at Ramah; and Elkanah knew Anna his wife, and Jehovah remembered her.
And they oppressed the children of Israel in that year, and smote all the children of Israel, that were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorite, which is in Gilead.
And I said, Now will the Philistines come down upon me unto Gilgal, and I will not seek the face of Jehovah; and I will cause the burnt offering to cease.
And all the children of Israel went out, and the assembly was gathered together as one man, from Dan even unto Beersheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah, at Mizpah.
being perfect as the fruit of righteousness, which by Jesus Christ, unto God's glory and glory.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give that to the man of God, to tell us our way.
And Jonathan the son of Saul rejoiced greatly in David; and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee, and now, behold, I pray thee, in the morning, and thou hast dwelt in a secret place, and be hid.
For the Amorites went upon the mountain of Jazer, and in Aijalon, and in the suburbs of the suburbs; but the children of Joseph waxed stronger than they, and put them in bondage.
and we will take ten men of one hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred one thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, that they may eat bread for the people, that they may come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
Let thy conversation be without covetousness; and be satisfied with such things as ye have; for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
And David rose up afterward, and went out of the cave, and called after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And he looked after him; and he bowed himself with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And Jonathan spake good things to Saul his father, and said unto him, Do not sin, O king, against thy servant David, for he hath not sinned against thee, and his works are very good toward thee.
seeing then that we have a great high priest, which is passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul answered, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not in the days appointed; and the Philistines came together at Michmash.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses; and when we saw that they were no more, we went to Samuel.
And Saul said, I will give her to him, that she may be a stumblingblock to him, and that the band of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said unto David, In two things thou shalt be my son in law this day.
And David said unto Abishai, Thou shalt not put him to death: for who hath sinned, that he may put forth his hand against the man whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil?
And all Israel from Dan to Beersheba knew that Samuel was a prophet of Jehovah.
And the children of Dan sent five of them out of their house, the men of valor, and the sons of valor, and the children of Zorah, and the children of Sharon, and they spied it, and said unto them, Go, search the land. And they came into the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
But I exhort you, brethren, endure the word of exhortation; for I write unto you in few words.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, By the living Jehovah shall not visit thee for this.
how much rather shall the blood of the Christ, which by the eternal Spirit offered himself unto God, purify your conscience from dead works to worship God?
And because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body himself, and became like them, that by his death he might put an end to him that had the power of death, that should say, The Evil One.
Let peace pursue all, and the consecration, that no man shall see the Lord;
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And all Israel heard that Saul had fought against the Philistines; and the Philistines hated the Philistines; and the people came after him to Gilgal.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not again have spoken after these things.
By faith they passed through the Red Sea as in the dry land; and when the Egyptians sought to do so, they were swallowed up.
And Samuel rose up, and went up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin; and the rest of the people went up after Saul to meet the people that fought against them, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah in the hill-country of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
And he, when he had sacrificed to the end, sat upon the right hand of God.
And she said unto Shammah the son, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and what it is with which thou wast bound thou shalt not break loose.
And one of the servants answered, and said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the keeper of Bethlehem, a mighty man, and a mighty man, and a man of war; and he is wise in his words, and pleasant in his sight, and Jehovah is with him.
and Jehovah turned again to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness, in that Jehovah hath given thee this day into hand, and I would not put forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah.
And they smote Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, and every man a man of valor, and not a man escaped.
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the workmen, and the deacons;
And it came to pass on the day that Elkanah sacrificed, that he gave up Penuel his wife, and all her sons, and her daughters.
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the den of the lion, and out of the mouth of the bear, he shall deliver me from the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah is with thee.
And it came to pass, when the men of Ashdod rose early in the morning, that they saw that they fell upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and they took their place of Dagon, and put him in his stead.
For also in the city of Thessalonica, both and again unto my need ye sent.
Now it came to pass, that his father and his mother knew not that this was the counsel of Jehovah, who destroyed the Philistines. Now the Philistines reigned over Israel.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longing for, my joy and my crown, stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And it came to pass after a time, that the children of Ammon fought with Israel.
Neither will I drive out any of the nations that Joshua left when he died from before them.
And the young man answered him, and said, Behold, there is found with me a fourth of a shekel of silver: and I have given to the man of God, and he hath told us our way.
And they went to Mizpah to Mizpah; and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; and she was his only child, and besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou son? And David said, The son of Jesse thy servant, the Aramite.
And the people returned unto Benjamin, because the Lord had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
I will go out and stand at my father's side in the field where thou art; and I will speak of thee unto my father; if I find out anything I will tell thee.
So God smote Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel on that day.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, that no man shall see the Lord.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the cry; and they said, What is this noise of a great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And this same hour will I send thee a man of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him over my people Israel; and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked down upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And all the children of Israel and all the people went up to Bethel, weeping, and stood before Jehovah, and fasted all day until evening, and offered burnt offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, who shall do according to my heart and my soul, and I will build him a faithful house; and he shall walk all days before my anointed.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice; but yet testify unto them, and tell them the right of the king, that shall reign over them.
And now stand ye yourselves, and I will judge you before Jehovah, and all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he did with you and your fathers.
For it was he, for whom are all things, and by him all things, who had brought many children into glory, to perfect the God of their salvation by his wrath.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Though ye have done this thing, yet will I be avenged upon you, and I will be quiet.
And within the second veil was the place which is called the Holy Place.
For by this the elders obtained testimony.
We have an altar from which those that serve in the tabernacle have not the right to eat.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And it came to pass, when the man said unto him, Let them burn the fat at first, and take for thyself as thou shalt desire; and he would say unto him, Nay; give it now; if not, I will take it by force.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how Jehovah hath delivered thee this day into my hand in the cave: some have asked me to kill thee; and I spared thee; and I said, I will not stretch out my hand against my lord, for he is Jehovah's anointed.
And it came to pass after some time, that the children of Ammon fought with Israel.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall bring me word, if thy father will answer thee roughly?
And the tabernacle of the sanctuary after the second curtain was holy.
And he took his staff, which he had always in his hands, and took him five of the smooth stones out of the brook, and put them into the shepherd's sack, which he had with him; and he took a sling in his hand, and went forth against the Philistines.
but to-day thou hast risen against the house of my father, and slew his sons, seventy men upon one stone, and thou hast made Abimelech, the son of his handmaid, a king over the princes of Shechem, because he is thy brethren.
and now, hearken now to the voice of thy handmaid, and I will set before thee a piece of bread, and eat, and there is in thee power when thou goest in the way.
And the kine went up straight through the way to Bethshemesh, and went along the way, as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
And it came to pass, as they were with the house of Micah, that they knew the voice of the young Levite; and they turned aside, and said unto him, Who hath brought thee hither? what doest thou in this place, and what is thy occupation?
to establish thee with every good thing, to carry out in us what is good before him through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever. Amen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be barren above women; and Samuel also divided them before Jehovah in Gilgal.
and all this congregation do know that Jehovah save not by the sword, and by the spear, that Jehovah hath delivered you into our hand.
Take heed, and know all the lies whither he hid himself, and come again to me with the truth, and I will go with you; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him abroad throughout all the thousands of Judah.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is clothed, receive blessing from God:
But Hananiah went not up; for she said unto her husband, Not until the child be weaned; then I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and abide there for ever.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou for my name? and it is marvellous in it.
And he judged Israel twenty years in the days of the Philistines.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And they took their provision and their trumpets into their hand; and he sent all the men of Israel, every one to his tent; but three hundred men he kept, and the camp of Midian beneath him in the valley.
And when he was come thither, he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and all the children of Israel went down with him out of the hill-country, and he was at their head.
Salute every one of the saints in Christ Jesus. The brethren salute you.
And the tithe of thy flocks shall he take, and ye shall be his servants.
then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
And said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth; and Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
In those days there was no king in Israel; Every man did what pleased him.
And they spied out the oar in Moab, and fought against him, and smote the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And the song went up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid among us in the fortified places of Hormah, in the hill of the valley of the wilderness?
saying, I will give the knowledge of thy name unto my brethren; I will sing unto thee before the assembly.
And Saul saw David from that day and forward.
For the priesthood is changed, of necessity also, of the law a change.
And the carpenter died, and was buried in Bethlehem.
And the Philistines were subdued, and they went not again into the borders of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And when he heard it, he hearkened unto their words, and took the ephod, and the idols, and the graven images, and departed with them.
And Jesse called his name Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And to whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all things which he had, the first name of righteousness, and also the king of Salem, that is to say, king of Peace;
And he had forty sons, and his sons' sons, thirty and thirty; and he judgeth Israel eight years.
And he gathered the children of Ammon and Amalek; and they went and smote Israel, and took palm trees.
And David heard in the wilderness, which the Carmelite was shearing his sheep.
And the anger of Jehovah burneth against Israel, and said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice,
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, the woman's concubine was fallen at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the door.
And the kings came and fought, and the kings of Canaan fought by the waters of Megiddo, and they took no spoil.
Go now, make some more, and see, and see the place where he is, and who hath seen him there: for they have said unto me, He is very cunning.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill, to set them among princes, to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And they rose early on the morrow, and, behold, Dagon fell upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon, and the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold: only the base of Dagon was left unto him.
And Micah said, Know now, I pray thee, that Jehovah will do me good, seeing that I have a Levite before my priest.
And as I say unto them, Levi also, who receiveth the tithe, even the tithes in Abraham.
And God did so that night; and the wool was dry, and the dew was upon all the earth.
and she caused him to go up with her, when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, and an ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine; and she brought him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, and the young was but a youth.
And they that were slain in the same place were eighteen thousand men, all of most valiant men.
For the covenant is fulfilled after death; For what power hath it in the days of the man that made it alive?
And the elders of Jabesh say unto him, Let us alone for seven days, and send messengers into all the borders of Israel: and if there is none to deliver us, then we have come out unto thee.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why troubled thou me, to bring me up? And Saul said, I am sore troubled: for the Philistines have fought against me, and God is departed from me, neither by the prophets nor by dreams: therefore have I called thee, that thou mayest make known to me what I shall do.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not dwell with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon our god Dagon.
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go, depart, and go down from the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they offered sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And the children of Israel rose early in the morning, and encamped by Geba.
And the children of Israel said, Who in the assembly hath not come up from all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah? For whosoever came not unto Jehovah at Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? for Saul will hear of it, and he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Thou shalt take with thee a calf of the herd, and say, I have come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
For it is known that our Lord came forth out of Judah, concerning which Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
And there was a young man out of the house of Judah, of the house of Judah, who was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
Shall I take my bread and my water, and my flesh, which I have slain for my shearers, and give it to men whom I know not?
And Shammah said unto her, If they would bind me with seven stripes cords, which have not been dried up, let me be weak, and be as another man.
always always, in all supplications of mine for you all, with joy made the supplication,
Then shall the horse be broken, And the noise of the mighty shall be lifted up.
And it came to pass between the pass, that Jonathan sought to go over to the host of the Philistines, and there was a rock on the one side, and the top of the cliff on the other side: and the name of the one was Jez-, and the name of the other.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and broke the vessels, and put the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of the Nethinim.
And Zebah and Zalmunna fled; and he pursued them, and took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna; and he smote all the host.
And Saul took David that day, and would not let him go to his father's house.
And David fled, and came to Damascus, and came to Ramah; and he told him all that Saul had done to him; and he went, he and Samuel, and they dwelt in Naoth.
And they went up, and dwelt in the land of the children of Judah, that is, Dan, and Kiriath-jearim.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no bread under my hand, but there is holy bread: if the young men have kept themselves at least than women.
And he said, Out of the slaughter came forth bread, and out of the strong came the sweet; and at the end of three days they could not answer.
But now he hath obtained a good work; and how much more he is a mediator for a good covenant, which is confirmed by promise.
And he called to the young man that carried his armor, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that they may not say of me, A woman killed him; and his young man thrust him through, and he died.
To our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And he fell between her feet, and fell, and lay down, and bowed down between her feet, and fell; and where he bowed, there he fell.
And Shammah the son went and took three hundred foxes, and took torches, and turned the tail to the tail, and put a lamp in the midst of the two tails.
saying, Thou hast not stolen us, neither have thou oppressed us, neither have thou taken any man out of his hand.
And his father went down to the woman, and made a feast for his son Jonathan: for so did the young men.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote the Carmelite, that he died.
And he said to Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them. But the young man did not draw his sword: for he was afraid, because he was yet a youth.
But this man, because he abideth for ever, hath a new priesthood.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon them, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah; and from Mizpah he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And if they had called to mind whence they were, they had opportunity to return.
And they set up for themselves the graven image of Micah, which he had made, even all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And he said unto him, Behold, a man of God is in this city, and the man is glorified: and all that he saith cometh true: therefore let us go thither, that he may shew us our journey on which we have gone.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work of Jehovah that he had wrought for Israel.
Salute all them that rule over you, and all the saints: they of Italy salute you.
Wherefore we ought to give the more heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip.
And David said unto his servants, Every man put his sword upon his sword: and every man was girded by his sword, and David was girded with his sword. And four hundred men went up after David, and two hundred men were left with the vessels.
And the children of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead: and when he was yet in Gilgal, all the people that followed him were greatly afraid.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue; And they shall all grow old as a garment.
Jehovah do so, and so to Jonathan, and add more more: but if my father sinneth against thee, I will find it to thy ear, and I will send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and the Lord be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But unto the Son, O God, thy throne is for ever and ever; The scepter of justice is the scepter of thy kingdom.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which were taken from thee, whereof thou hast cursed, and spake of my ears, behold, the silver is with me, and I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
So David rose early, he and his men, to go forth early in the morning to return to the land of the Philistines; but the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And he had thirty sons that rode upon thirty asses; and they had thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which they called unto this day Havothjair.
And the children of Israel served Eglon, the king of Moab, eighteen years.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever, according to the order of Malchijah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And now let not my blood fall upon the earth before Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek the harlot, as the partridge sitteth upon the mountains.
And it came to pass, when Israel was planted, that the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east came up against them.
And it came to pass, when David heard in the wilderness, that he was shearing his sheep,
And it came to pass, when he came in, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and went down with him the children of Israel from the hill-country, and he was before them.
And Benjamin came to that time, and they gave them the wives, whom they had delivered alive of the daughters of Jabeshgilead; but they found none of them.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
that in the name of Jesus every knee may worship, of heaven lying, and the earth lies, and that which is under the earth:
So David went, and he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook, and where they that were left behind were.
He shall keep the feet of his saints; And the wicked shall be quiet in darkness; For no man shall prevail by his own strength.
And these are the golden sore, which the Philistines returned as a trespass offering unto Jehovah: one of Ashdod, and Ashkelon, one, and Gath, one; for Ekron.
And he was king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, who met Abraham from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words, and their heart clave to Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And they said unto them, I am a man of great strife, I and my people, with the children of Ammon; and I call you, and ye have not delivered me out of their hand.
And his father-in-law, the father of the damsel, kept him there three days: and they had food and drink, and took their rest there.
And the men of the city rose early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal broken down, and the holy tree that was by it cut down, and the oxen offered upon the altar that was set up there.
Now the ark of God was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
For by this the people of old were justified.
And David took from her hand what she had brought for him; and he said unto her, Go up to thy house in peace: behold, I have heard thy voice, and I have granted thy request.
And he brought down the people unto the waters, and the Lord spake unto him, saying, Every man that goeth down with his tongue of water as a dog, thou shalt set him apart; and every one that boweth upon his knees shall drink.
And he judgeth Israel twenty and three years; and he died; and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
And he said, Behold, there cometh men down from the midst of the land, and one troop cometh by the way that looketh toward the oak.
And David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Urijah the son of Arioch king of Gath.
If then the Levites were in charge of the priesthood, ( for the people have received the law), what need shall there be so that the priest should rise according to the commandment of Malchijah, and not be called according to the commandment of Aaron?
And David said to Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I shall not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third even.
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go away, take yourselves out of the midst of the Amalekites, and destroy you with them: for thou wast kind to the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Egypt: therefore the Kenites went away from the Amalekites.
For they are become priests without an oath; but he that sweareth of an oath, by him that saith, Jehovah hath sworn, and will not repent of it, thou shalt be a priest for ever, according to the order of Malchijah.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, and Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite; and the children of Israel sent an offering by him to Eglon, king of Moab.
And all the men of the tower of Shechem heard; and they entered into the stronghold of the house of the god.
And they heard of it, and the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead, which the Philistines had done to Saul.
Behold, I testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken? or whom have I robbed? or from whose hand have I taken a bribe, that I may shut mine eyes upon him? I will restore it unto thee.
And he said, In peace I have come to make an offering unto Jehovah: make yourselves clean, and come with me to make the offering. And he made Jesse and his sons clean, and sent for them to be present in the offering.
But now they long for a better, that is, an heavenly, and God is not ashamed of them to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of heavenly and of the earth, and of the dead,
And Samuel the child ministered unto the Lord before Eli: the word of Jehovah was precious in those days, and there was no vision in them.
And now make a new cart, and take two young kine, on which there is not a yoke, and bind the kine to the cart, and bring the calves away from them.
And she said unto her young men, Go before me, and I will follow thee; but she said nothing to her husband of Nabal.
And he shewed them how to enter into the city; and they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man go, and all his family.
And David put forth his hand in his sack, and took out a stone, and sent it out of his sack by the hand of the Philistines; and the stone went deep into his forehead, and he went down to the earth, and fell upon his face.
And the five men went on their way, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were there, living without fear, as the Sidonians, quiet and safe: for they had all things upon the earth, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with Syria.
for they besieged the city, which before was called the city.
And the Holy Spirit was revealed, that the way into the holy place was not yet seen in the first tabernacle.
And Saul cast his spear upon him to smite him. And Jonathan knew that his father was determined to put David to death.
And the children of Ephraim said unto him, What is this that thou meanest to do, that thou wouldest not call us when thou wentest to fight against Midian? and they contended with him, and made haste.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made judges over Israel.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were in it, and brake down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns and thorns in the wilderness, and rent them with the same, and cut them in pieces the men of Succoth.
For we have seen him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will reward; and the Lord will judge his people.
And this is done from that day forward, and a statute, and a statute, and a statute in Israel.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all your heart, and put away the foreign gods and the foreign god from among you, and direct your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Brethren, be careful lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, to depart from the living God.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was a prophet of Jehovah.
Now this present which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
For we have a great high priest that hath gone through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast to our confession.
For, behold, thou art conceiving, and bare a son, and a razor shall not go up upon his head; for a man of God is the child of the womb, and he will begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Memucan went out into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and bolted.
And they sent twelve thousand of the best men, and commanded them, saying, Go, and put the men of Jabesh-gilead to the sword without mercy, with their women and their little ones.
If they say thus unto us, Stand still until we come unto thee; then we will abide in our place, and will not go up unto them.
And he went down, and spake unto the woman that had pleasure in his eyes.
For he slew the Philistines, and smote the Philistines; and Jehovah gave all Israel salvation: and ye saw it and were glad: why then hast thou sinned against him that hath not sinned, and seeking the death of David?
For by the living Jehovah, the Saviour of Israel, even if the sinner is Jonathan, my son shall die; but none of the people shall answer him.
And Shammah the son said unto them, Now shall I be more upright than the Philistines, though I do them a provocation.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have heard thy voice concerning all that thou hast said unto me; therefore have I set a king over thee.
And when they were a good way out of the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses of the house of Micah gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ:
And there was a high priest over the house of God.
So they came together to Mizpah, and fetched water, and poured it out before Jehovah; and they fasted not that day, and said, We have done evil against Jehovah. And Samuel was judge of the children of Israel at Mizpah.
And he said unto his servants, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master Jehovah's anointed, to stretch out my hand against him; for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
Let not your confidence fail, which hath great reward.
By faith Abel offered unto God a greater sacrifice than Cain, by which he was justified, because God approved him for his gifts; and through it he spake, even though he is dead.
And after him was Shelomith the son of Jephunneh; and he smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with the oxen, and he delivered Israel.
And every man of Israel gathered unto the city, as one man.
And David went out whithersoever he sent him; and he dealt wisely; and Saul set him over the men of war, and it was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of the servants of Saul.
for the law made perfect nothing; and the obtaining of a good hope by which we draw nigh to God.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Shushan, the king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel reigned eight years.
And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, where is the house of the seer?
And he ran to him, and said, Behold, I, for thou hast called for me. And he said, I called not; turn again, lie down. And he went and lay down.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath shut up this day thine enemy into thine hand; and now, let me smite him, I pray thee, with a spear, even to the earth at once, and I will tell him.
And his father said unto him, He also said unto his mother, Is there not among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people a woman, that thou wouldest take a wife from the Philistines? And the son of Barachel said unto his father, Take her for me, for she is right in mine eyes.
And the woman had a fatted calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and made unleavened cakes of it.
And it came to pass after him, that after he had been fair in his sight, Elon the fifth, and he judged Israel ten years.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the high priest of our confession, Jesus;
And David said in his heart, I shall go day and another into the hand of Saul: is it not better for me to flee, and to be saved in the land of the Philistines, that Saul may be afraid of me, and cease to seek me in all the coasts of Israel? I will flee from his hand.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart, for see that which he hath made great with thee.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a stranger, which is not of the children of Israel: but we will go to the city of the children of Israel.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side; and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side; and there was a valley between them.
And he said unto his young man, Run, and find the arrows which I shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow on him.
And Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a tree from the trees, and took it up, and laid it on his shoulder, and said to the people that was with him, What ye have seen me, make haste, and do as I have done.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these great gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness.
And he died, and died, and was buried at Bethlehem.
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt that is lent unto Jehovah: and they went unto their own home.
And the Philistines rose up, and came and drew near to David; and David ran quickly to meet the Philistines.
that this shall be no grief to thee, nor a trespass of heart to my lord, that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself: when Jehovah hath dealt well with my lord, then remember thy servant.
And it came to pass before they burned the fat, that the priest's servant came, and said unto the man that was sacrificed, Give flesh to the priest, and he shall not accept flesh of thee, but raw.
Go not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again.
And Jehovah Elohim of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them; and Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not at his countenance, nor at the height of his stature, because I have cast him off: for God seeth not what man seeth: for a man looketh upon the outward appearance, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
and almost all things are purified with blood according to the law, and without blood there is no release.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and in the cities thereof, and in Aroer, and the cities thereof, and all the cities that are by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; and why did thou not recover them in that day?
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Abide not in the stronghold: depart, and go into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Harden.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Suffer me, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Speak.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; for he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been unto thee very good.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed and of thy vineyards, and give to his servants, and to his servants.
that I may do all things through Christ, who strengtheneth me.
And the weight of the golden rings that he asked was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, and of gold, and of purple, and of purple, that were upon the kings of Midian, and with the chains round about their camels.
And of the children of Issachar, Deborah, the chief of the children of Beriah; and over the tribe of Reuben, they went into the valley, and in the divisions of the Reubenites.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his garments, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
Speak unto the princes of Shechem, saying, What is better to thee, that seventy men of Baal have ruled over thee, or that one man ruleth over thee? behold, I am thy bone and thy flesh.
For he that preacheth Christ of strife, and not perfect, thought to add affliction unto my bonds:
and he arose to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; and the soul of my lord was bound in the sheaf of life with Jehovah thy God; as to the soul of thine enemies, he shall sling them out in the midst of the sling.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the high priest of our confession, Jesus;
And David fled from the city of Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is my iniquity? what is my sin? what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the cry, they said, What is the voice of this great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? And they knew that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
And they said, There shall be a remnant of Benjamin, that a tribe shall not be blotted out of Israel.
And David said unto him, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go up against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he found a piece of a ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew with it a thousand men.
And the woman ran quickly, and told her husband, saying, I have seen him that came unto me the second day.
And Deborah, the prophetess, was a prophetess, and she judged Israel.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Jehovah call the enemies of David to account.
and having tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And he went to the house of his father in Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, seventy souls: but he left the same stone, but he hid himself.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some should enter therein; and they to whom it was first preached not in unbelief.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And he said, Yea, seventy kings, whose hands and great toes were cut off, and broken flesh under my table: as I have done, so hath God dealt with me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he came to his end there.
But ye have this day rejected your God, who hath delivered you out of all your troubles and from your distress; and ye have said unto him, No, set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by your thousands.
And it shall come to pass from the year that the daughters of Israel shall assemble together, and shall lament the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite for four days.
For this the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel, after those days, saith Jehovah, that I will give my law into their heart, and upon their heart I will write them; and I will be unto them for a God, and they shall be unto me for a people;
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, In this manner David spake.
And ye shall cry in that day because of the king whom ye have chosen for yourselves; and Jehovah will not answer you in that day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah ran upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men from them; and he took their stuff, and gave to the men that told the parable; and he was wroth, and went up to his father's house.
And he said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore troubled: for the Philistines have made war against me, and God hath departed from me, and I will answer me no more, of prophets or of dreams: therefore have I called thee, that thou mayest make known to me what I shall do.
And Japhlet the Gileadite was a mighty man, and he was the son of a harlot: and Gilead was the father of Japhlet.
And with whom was he grieved forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?
There was no loss of anything, whether small or great, nor sons, nor daughters, nor goods, or anything that they had taken away; and David returned.
Now when Jesus had entered into us, he made a high priest for ever, according to the order of Malchijah.
Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, and the Philistines: and he brake the girdle, as a piece of flax is broken when it toucheth the fire, and his strength was not known.
And he turned from him to another, and he spake unto him in the same way; and the people answered him as before.
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath cast out the Amorite before his people Israel, and shall ye possess it?
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they ate, and rose up, and went away that night.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth was there again.
And Joram the son of Joash returned from the host, at the going up of the sun.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath commanded unto you.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking, that he cast his face out of his hand, and that place was called Ramah.
when the shoulder, and the shovels, and the forks, and the axes, were fastened, and they set up the pieces.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been a shepherd of the flock for his father: if the lion or the bear come, and take away a sheep from the congregation,
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men, all the men of valour.
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw a mighty man, or any valiant man, he took him unto him.
And the woman came and spake unto her husband, saying, The man of God came unto me, and his countenance was as the appearance of a messenger of God; and I asked him not whence he was, and he spake not unto me.
And when David heard that he was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil: but Jehovah hath brought back the evil of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her as his wife.
And Adam rose up, and went after his wife, and came up to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that talked with this woman? And he said, I am.
For it is clear that our Lord hath spoken from Judah, as unto which Moses spake not unto the priests.
Therefore I sent him speedily, that he might see him again, that ye may rejoice, and I may be without heaviness.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shammah the son said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye may not fall upon me.
The mirth of Saul came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the mount of Paran, To the wilderness?
And the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were troubled: for they saw that the evil was smitten against them.
and may my God supply all your desire, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And they answered them, and said, He is, behold, he is before you: make haste now, for he came to the city: for there is a sacrifice of the people unto day in the high place.
And we have both straw and provender for our asses; and I have bread and wine for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants: there is no lack of anything.
Remember the days that thou sawest the light, When thou wentest through a great battle;
and the gold also, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, which were of the five lords of the Philistines, and the fortified cities, and the villages of the lentils, and they brought them unto the great stone of Abel, which they set down the ark of Jehovah, in the field of Joshua the Gittite.
saying, This the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you.
And David went up thence, and dwelt in the palaces of En Gedi.
Why didst thou keep silence among the sheep, And hear nothing but the shepherds that fed the flock?
How much more shall the blood of Christ, which by the Holy Ghost offered himself to God, cleanse our conscience from the dead, to serve the living God?
And they rose early in the morning, and, behold, Dagon was fallen upon the earth, before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon, and the two branches of his hands were cut off at the threshold; only the fish were left to him.
And the border of the Amorites ran from the ascent of Akrabbim, from Selah unto the king;
that by faith Abraham, when he was tempted, offered Isaac; and he that received the promises was to offer his only son,
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the men of Israel rose up, and cried, and pursued the Philistines, until thou enter into the valley, and unto the gate of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines fell in the way of Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
And day and night they were as a wall round about us, and we were with them, looking after the sheep.
She looked out from the window, and cried, And the mother of Sisera looked through the lattice: Wherefore is his chariot so long when he cometh, and the wheels of his chariots?
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me with the son of Jesse, that hath given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired from Jehovah for him, and hast helped him to take up arms against me, and to be upon me as he hath done?
And the children of Israel did the evil thing in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness; so that nothing was lost of all that pertained to him; for he hath returned me evil for good.
And the heads of the Philistines were wroth against him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Send back the man, and he will return to his place whither thou hast appointed him, and shall not go down with us into battle, neither shall he go down with us in battle; and wherewith shall this man make atonement for his lord? Is it not with the heads of these men?
And thou shalt make an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the commandment, and thou shalt take the bullock, and make a burnt-offering with the wood of the holy tree, which is cut down.
For unto me, to live is Christ: and to die there is profit.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and in those days the tribe of the children of Dan sought themselves to dwell in; for until that day they were not divided among the tribes of Israel.
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
and forget not to do good, and to speak; for by such sacrifices God's grace is obtained.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be in thee; and Saul my father knoweth.
And it came to pass, when he had finished offering the gift, that he sent away the people that had received the gift.
and when he was found as a man, he humbled himself, being obedient unto death, death even of a tree.
And the men of the city said unto Joash, Make thy son come out to be slain, and destroy the altar of Baal, and cut down the holy tree which was by it.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Take heed, I pray thee, and see; who hath departed from us? And they looked, and, behold, Jonathan, and the bearer of his weapons are not.
And it came to pass, when David came again after the destruction of the Philistines, and the women came out of all the cities of Israel, with songs and with dances, David with singing, and with gladness, and with instruments of music.
Behold, I will put a wool of wool upon the threshing-floor; if there be dew upon the wool, and it is dry upon all the ground, then shall I know that thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken.
Let the punishment of God be upon David, And if in the morning there is a male of his people.
And when he had finished offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, and salute him.
Cursed be the angel of Jehovah, saith Jehovah, saying, Cursed ye the inhabitants thereof; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And Jesse made Shammah king before Samuel; but he said, Jehovah hath not chosen this man.
Salute all those that are leading you, and all the saints: salute ye that ye are from Italy.
And he said, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice; and he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
looking stedfastly upon Jesus the chief, and perfect of faith: who, having seen the joy before him, endured passed, having despised shame, and being set down at the right hand of God.
And they answered, and we will gladly give them; and they put down a garment, and every man cast into it the earrings which he took.
And Samuel answered and said, I am the seer: go up before me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me this day: then I will send thee away in the morning, and I will tell thee all that is in thine heart.
And Shammah the son went, and took three hundred foxes, and took a stone, and turned the tail to the tail, and put a lamp in the midst of two tails.
And the weight of the gold rings, which he took from them, was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, in addition to the jewels and jewels, and the purple garments which were upon the kings of Midian, and the chains upon their camels.
Do all things without murmuring and disputing;
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah raised them up judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repenteth Jehovah for their sakes, because of them that oppressed them, and crushed them.
Blessed is the most of women, and of the daughters of Heber, the Kenites; for she is blessed among women in the tent.
And he said unto him, Behold there is a man of God in this city, a famous man: all that he saith shall come to pass. Now therefore let us go thither, that he may tell us our way, for which we are come.
And they slew the bullock, and they brought the lad to him.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay in the midst of the wall, and his spear stuck in the ground; and Abner and the people laid round about him.
And the watchmen rage upon Gibeah, and ran upon them; and they smote the city without mercy.
And David departed thence, and fled to the cave of Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither unto him.
And Jonathan said, Be not thou thought: for if I saw that my father spake evil against thee, would I not tell thee of it?
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, and there was a cave there; and Saul went in to strengthen himself. And David and his men sat in the midst of the cave.
And the prince of the city heard the words of Gath the son of Shelemiah, and his anger was kindled.
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehem in Judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against the children of Ammon, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he smote them whithersoever he turned.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; and let all prophesy that we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and my seed for ever.
And the men of Israel returned, and the men of Benjamin marvelled: for they saw that evil was come upon them.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, If thou wilt keep me, I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou prepare a burnt-offering unto Jehovah, thou shalt offer it: for man hath not known that he is a messenger of Jehovah.
And David was the youngest; and the three elder followed after him.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake; for it hath pleased Jehovah to make thee his people.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Do ye see the calling of Jehovah, how there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, saying, Long life unto the king!
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, Who have offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah!
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed themselves to them; and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, and most desired, my joy and my crown, stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And Samuel said, What meaneth this well of the flock, that drinketh in my ears, and the voice of the herds which I hear?
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
And Midian was stronger than Israel; and the children of Israel made booths for themselves in the mountains, and in the rocks, and in the rocks.
And he smote them thoroughly, and went down, and abode in the den of the rock of Etam.
And he went up, and went up the way of them that dwell in tents eastward; and he went up, and wept, and smote the host when it was taken away.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul set the people in three pieces, and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning, and smote the children of Ammon till the heat of the day: and the remnant were scattered, and there were not left of them two.
but if it bear thorns and thistles, then it is contemned and is cursed; whose end is to be burned.
And it came to pass in the past of Israel, that a man went to inquire of God, saying, Come, let us go to the prophet; for he that is called prophet is in those days called the name of the prophet.
And Saul arose, and went down into the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
And David said unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with the sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I came unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, which thou hast reproached.
So David rose up early, he and his men, to go in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the cry, they said, What is the voice of this great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? And they knew that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
Wherefore God hath exalted him, And hath given him a name that is above every name:
Jehovah, when thou wentest out of Seir, and passed by the coasts of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heaven dropped water.
And when ye come into the city, ye shall see him straight away, before he goeth up to the high place for the feast; and the people wait for his blessing before the feast; and after that they shall take part in it, go up now, and see him.
and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts through Christ Jesus.
And a certain woman cast a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and brake his head.
with such a force that the blade went in after the wound, and was bound up with the multitude of fat; and he cast not forth the sword, but left it in his body as he had smitten it in. And immediately, by the hidden part of the belly the sting of the belly came forth.
knowing that God is able to raise up even from the dead, and he also received him from the dead.
and I will go and stand beside my father in the field where thou art; and I will speak of thee to my father, and whatsoever I shall see, I will tell thee.
And he smote them from Aroer, till thou comest to the brook of Minnith, and the twenty cities, even unto Abel, with a very great slaughter; and the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And the helmet of brass was upon his head; and he was clothed with the breastplate; and the weight of his head was five thousand shekels of brass.
Now the sons of Eli were wicked men: they knew not Jehovah.
Why standest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the pleasant places of the flock? For the divisions of Reuben are very great.
And the chiefs of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna, even now in thy hand, that we may give bread to thy army?
and bare him to Ziklag, and to Ziklag, for the land of the kings of Judah to this day.
And do not multiply your words, neither let the excellency of glory come out of thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him the work is weighed.
And he reigned in the stead of Judah; and he reigned ten years in his stead.
And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the mouth of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So they ran, and took him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was greater than all the people round about his shoulders.
And of all these men were seven hundred chosen men, who were left of the left hand; and they drew every one of them a stone, and they were not missing.
And when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he spake unto them in the ears of Jehovah.
And the land of Midian was subdued before the children of Israel; and the land rested forty years in the days of the slaughter.
And the women received by the resurrection of their dead; and others were tormented, not receiving back the redemption, that they might receive a better resurrection.
And the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and forty thousand of the children of Israel that day.
Now of the things whereof we say this is the chief priest: We have such a high priest, who hath taken his place at the right hand of God's throne of glory in heaven,
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal; and let us renew the kingdom there.
And the battle prevailed against Saul; and the archers came upon him, and he was wounded by the archers.
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Arise, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And he arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna, and took the provocation of their camels.
For if a man shall arise, and persecute thee, and seek thee, and seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be kept, as in the gathering of the living, with Jehovah thy God; but the souls of thy enemies shall be blown, as with the violence and in a sling.
I have a maid, and this man hath a concubine; I will bring them out to thee, and thou mayest humble them, and satisfy your desire: only I beseech thee, do not do this evil against the man.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now Jehovah would have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
And he said unto his young man, Go, and fetch me the arrows which I shall shoot: and when the lad ran, he shot another arrows on the head.
And the men of Jabesh said, Unto morrow will we come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
And Achbor the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
which we have given to the necessities of the soul, both strong and strong, and entering into that inner chamber,
By faith we know that the world is made by the word of God, that things which are seen were not made of things which are seen.
And it came to pass, with these words, that David spared his servants, and sent them not unto Saul: and Saul arose, and went on his way.
But they forgat Jehovah their God; and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
The kings came, they fought, and fought the kings of Canaan; and the kings of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo; they took no spoil of silver.
But I thought it necessary to send unto you, I pray thee, to my brother, and to my brother, and to his companion, and to the soldier, and to thy messenger, and he that ministered unto my pleasure.
And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no dealings with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Beth Rehob; and they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And his wife answered him, If Jehovah had a heart to kill us, he would not have received a burnt offering and a drink offering at our hands, neither did he shew us all these things, nor told us the things that are to come.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, who dwelt in the hill-country, and the south, and the lowland.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons have not walked in thy ways: therefore make thee a king to judge us, as all the nations.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el: and the name of the city was before Luz.
And we will be as all nations: and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles for us.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, I will pursue this troop, and will I catch it? And he said unto him, Go after thee: for thou shalt surely overtake, and shalt surely deliver.
And she said, Surely I will go with thee; nevertheless, there shall be no glory for thee in the way whither thou goest; for Jehovah will sell to the woman with the hand of a woman. And she rose up, and went with an ensign to Kedesh.
And Saul returned from the battle of the Philistines, and tidings was given unto him that David was in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
And she sent and called for the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said unto him, Hath not Jehovah the God of Israel commanded thee? Go, go up to mount Tabor, and take ten thousand men of the sons of Naphtali and of Zebulun.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou didst not call us not, when thou wentest to fight against the Midianites? And they contended with him roughly.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life also, and with me thou shalt be saved.
And thou shalt be blessed above women, the wife of Heber the Kenites; Blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
And there was a war there; and David went out against the Philistines, and smote them greatly; and they fled before him.
And David took all the sheep, and the cattle, and drove them before the cattle; and they said, This is the spoil of David.
And David dwelt with him in Gath, he and his men: every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
Now there was there a certain man of the servants of Saul that day, who stood before Jehovah; and his name was called of Edom, the chief of the shepherds that were before Saul.
and that he humbled himself in subjection to death, that he might be crucified.
And when Saul saw that he was very prosperous, he was greatly reproved by him.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and said, He is sick.
But comfort yourselves every day, as long as it is called to this day, that none of you be offended by the deceitfulness of sin.
And David saved neither man nor woman, neither brought him any of them to Gath, saying, Lest they should speak against us. So did David, and such as went in the land of the Philistines.
Behold, thou hast seen this day how Jehovah hath given thee up into my hand in the hollow of the rock; and some would have me put to death, but I have pity on thee: for I said, Thou shalt not lift up my hand against my lord, the anointed oil.
For it is known that out of Judah hath risen our Lord, in regard to which Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
and leave not hence, till I return unto thee, and bring a sacrifice, and offer it unto thee. And he answered, I will wait thy coming.
And Shammah the son said, With the jaw of an ass, heaps upon heaps, I have slain a thousand of a ass.
Behold, if it go up by the way of his own border to Beth Shemesh, then he hath done us great evil: but if not, then shall we know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a matter to us.
And one of the people of that place answered, and who is their father? And they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
and I say unto thee, I beseech thee, an instrument of understanding, that thou mayest help those women that are in the Gospel with me, and also the others, and the others, whose names are in the book of life.
There salute you all the saints, and especially those of Caesar's house.
From where the first was not first, there was no blood.
And Enoch was taken up to heaven, that he should not die; but he was seen no more; for God took him away: for before he was taken, a witness was given to God.
And the princes of the Philistines came up to her, and said, Search him, and find out what is his might, and how we can prevail against him, that we may bind him up in order to subdue him; every one of us shall give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
As to the rest, wait till he place his enemies his footstool:
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God is taken.
And they lie in wait secretly with her, and in the chamber at the chamber she cried out unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines are upon thee; and he brake the bands, as a piece of flax, when it shaketh the fire; and it is not known in his strength.
And he slew of the men of Bethshemesh, because they saw the ark of Jehovah; and he slew of the people seventy men, and fifty thousand of the people: and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And Joram the son of Joash died in a good old age; and he was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in the place of the king's wife; and in the name of his father was Ophrah.
And it came to pass, at the time of harvest, when the harvest was reaped, that he took a young goat, and went to see his wife; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber of the bride: but her father would not let him go in.
And Samuel rose early to meet him in the morning, and it was told to Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a pillar, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this evil: turn not aside from following Jehovah: but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And it came to pass, when they were at the house of Micah, that they perceived the voice of the young man the Levite; and they turned aside thither, and said unto him, Who hath brought thee hither? what doest thou in this place? what hast thou here?
And I took her, and cut her in pieces, and sent it into all the borders of thy possession: for there was not so a lewdness, and there was great abomination in Israel.
a minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hath pitched, and not man.
And he said unto him, We are passing from Bethlehem to Judah, to the side of Ephraim; from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehem in Judah: but I am going to the house of Jehovah, and there is none that receiveth me to house.
that ye are not slothful, but believing them, who through faith and patience shall inherit the promises.
For whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, and every son of whom he receiveth.
Brethren, I count not to be possessed by myself: but one hath forgotten the things behind, and spread out unto the things before,
Behold, I put the wool of wool upon the threshing-floor; if the dew be upon the wool, and it be dry upon all the ground, then will I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
But of which of the angels hath he said at any time, Sit at my right hand, Till I put all thy enemies under thy feet?
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And it came to pass, when she had sat under the palms of Rebekah, that was between Ramah and Bethel, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went up to her for judgment.
Now it came to pass, that the prince of the city, when he heard that the son of Shelemiah had said, was wroth.
And Israel set a lie at Gibeah round about.
And the two made a covenant before Jehovah; and David abode in the wood: but Jonathan returned to his house.
And to the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, the hearers that were asking that not a word should be said unto them,
And Saul stretched out his spear upon him, and smote him with a wound. And Jonathan knew that his father's counsel was to put David to death.
And the sixth of them judged Israel six years: and they died in the land of Gilead, and were buried in the cities of Gilead.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Jebusite, and the Amalekites; for they had dwelt in the land for a long time in the way of Shur, and as far as the land of Egypt.
And David said in his heart, I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I should go quickly to the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall faint from me, to seek me any more in any land of Israel: so shall I escape from his hand.
And the princes of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, took their places in the assembly of God, four hundred thousand footmen armed with the sword.
And Saul said, Hear now, O son of Ahitub. And he answered, Behold, I am here, my lord.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he said, Because this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
by faith he hath dwelt in the land of the promise, in the land of a strange land, when he dwelt with Isaac and Jacob, and the same promise,
And he said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, a man of God in this city, and the man is glorified; all that he speaketh shall come: now we go there, that he may shew us our way on which we have gone.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, ye shall not send it away empty: for ye shall bring back to him a trespass offering; then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known to you, that his hand will not depart from you.
Be strong, and act like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they are to thee: strengthen yourselves as men, and fight.
Jehovah forbid that I should stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed: but now take the spear that is at his head, and the pitcher, and let us go.
And the people, the princes of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that shall fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; for ye have done all this evil: turn not away from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
The name of Jehovah was a high priest according to the order of Melchizedek.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
And when he came, behold, Eli was sitting upon the throne by the wayside, for his heart was moved for the ark of God: and the man came to tell it in the city, and all the city cried out.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, Jehovah will hear between us, if by thy word we do not so.
and the border of the Amorites from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
For we are the circumcision, who by the Spirit serve God, and boast in Christ Jesus, and in flesh have no hope:
And unto Jesus the mediator of the new testament, and of the sprinkling blood, than of Abel.
But if I say thus unto the young man, behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way: for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And it came to pass, as soon as he died, that the children of Israel returned, and played the harlot after the Baalim; and they made themselves a god to Baal.
And they turned aside thither to go in to lodge in Gibeah; and he went in and sat in a broad place of the city, and there was no man gathered them into the house to lodge.
And the Philistines called unto the priests, and to the soothsayers, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? Make us therefore how we should send it to the place thereof.
And a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all that was to break his head.
This day the Lord shut thee up into my hand, and I smote thee, and turned off thy head from off thee, and gave the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day to the fowl of the heavens, and to the beast of the earth; and all the earth know that God is for Israel.
For this cause Jesus was put to death outside the wall, that he might sanctify the people by his blood.
And the olive-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith they honor God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and changed their garments, and changed their garments to them, and his anger was kindled, and went up to his father's house.
And all the elders of Israel gathered together, and came to Samuel at Ramah.
And Enoch was crucified by faith, that he should not see death, but was not found, because God had interpreted him: for before his interpretation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.
And the king said, Ask thou, whose son this, the young man.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh, and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the mixture. And he did so.
In that day, as I have spoken concerning his house, I will raise up upon my head, and I will begin to cease.
And the tents of Sisera shall flee upon his feet unto the tent of the wife of Heber the Kenites, for peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenites.
And it came to pass, when she rode upon the ass, and came down into the mountain, that David and his men came down to meet her, and she met them.
And Jehovah raised judges, and they delivered them out of the hand of spoilers.
praying for us; for we know that our hearts are in the heart of sin, and the way of life in all things.
And what shall I say yet? For the days shall fail me, and the number of the sons of Kedar, and the children of Jaakan, and the prophet, and the prophet, and the sons of Samuel, and the prophets;
And thou shalt take these ten goats, which thou shalt take in unto the head of the thousand; and thou shalt visit thy brethren for peace, and they shall receive their pledge.
And the sons of Eli were wicked men: they knew not Jehovah.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words that thou hast said unto me.
And the children of the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
and the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they heard, that the word should not be spoken unto them any more.
And Abdon the son of Jeroham, the Pirathonite, died; and they buried the Pirathonite in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And thou shalt say unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And the king of Joash went up from the battle unto the king of Judah out of the host.
Now when Saul's brethren saw him among the band of prophets, the people said one to another, What is Saul, the son of Kish? Is he even Saul among the prophets?
but the high priest shall come into the second tent once a year, not without blood, which he offereth for himself, and for the sins of the people in ignorance.
And David fled from the city of Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee: we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baalim.
And he said unto them, I will not reign over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah shall reign over you.
and enquired of him concerning their state. At that time the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there.
being full of the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.
And he judgeth Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
The mirth of Saul came unto Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid in the mount of the wilderness over the wilderness?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Speak no more, lest any bitter spirit be upon thee, and that thou mayest die, and the life of thy people.
And it came to pass, that it was told in the name of the king, saying, The name of the son of Rechab, the son of Rechab, was gone up to mount Tabor.
But the woman, at the dawning of the day, came to the door of the house where her lord lodged, and there fell down.
But thou hast dealt well with me, That thou hast kept me in my need.
And Saul said, Bring me here a burnt-offering, and peace-offerings; and he offered the burnt-offering.
And David and his men went up, and smote the Geshurites, and the Jebusite, and the Amalekites: for they were the inhabitants of the land, who were of old, on the way to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Jehovah will surely require it at the hand of David's enemies.
For the trees have gone over to anoint them a king; and they say to the olive oil, Thou art delivered over us.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken; From the heavens shall he thunder upon them; Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he shall give strength unto his king, And exalted the horn of his anointed.
And he said, This shall be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: he shall take your sons, and appoint them to his chariots, and to his horsemen, and they shall run before his chariots.
But if thou wilt still do wickedly, thou and thy king shall perish together.
And he went also into Gaza, and saw a woman a harlot, and went in unto her.
And it came to pass after him, that after him, the son of Bethlehem, the son of Bethlehem, judged Israel.
And Saul and his men went to seek him; and they told David, and he went down to the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard this, and pursued David into the wilderness of Maon.
Now these things were done, and the priests went in continually into the first tent, to do the service.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, Unto day shalt thou hear his voice,
Is it not at the wheat harvest? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and ye shall see and see, and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking for yourselves a king.
And messengers sent out into all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take the waters before them, and take the waters unto the Jordan; and all the men of Ephraim shall be called, and they shall take the waters unto Beth-Baal, and the Jordan.
But exhort one another day, while it is called to day; lest any of you be made stubborn through the deceit of sin.
And the king said unto her, Fear not; what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
And it came to pass, when she continued to pray before Jehovah, that she was called her mouth.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have surely hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way that Jehovah hath sent me, and have brought against Amalek the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed Amalek.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And it came to pass, when the morning was come, that the Levites went on his way. And his father said unto him, I beseech thee to take a little, and strengthen thyself, until the day be past, and afterward thou mayest go. And they ate.
And Saul went up from after the Philistines; and the Philistines went to their place.
And all the elders of Israel assembled, and came unto Samuel to Ramah.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
And the son of Barachel was unto the middle of the night, and rose at midnight, and laid hold of the doors of the gate, and the two pillars, and plucked them up, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that is before Hebron.
I will shoot three arrows to the sides, And I will shoot three arrows.
And the man said unto him, I am he that came out of the host; and I fled to day out of the host. And he said, What is there, my son?
Take your stand again, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
So David took the spear, and the cup of water which was on Saul's head, and they went away; and no man saw it, or knew it, or awoke, but they were all asleep: for a deep sleep from Jehovah fell upon them.
Shall the people of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And it came to pass, when the days were fulfilled, that he gave up Penuel his wife, and all her sons and her daughters.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: Jehovah is before you on the way whither ye will go.
If ye have dealt faithfully and faithfully with baal, and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in thee.
So David smote the Philistines with a sling, and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
And the Kenites, even the Kenites, separated from the rest of the Kenites, of the children of Hobab, the wife of Moses, who had pitched his tent unto the oak of Zaanannim, in Zaanannim, by the name of Kedesh.
And from that day onward he made it a statute and a statute unto Israel unto this day.
And the five men that went out to spy out the land, that is, Laish answered, and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there are in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a molten image? Therefore consider what ye must do.
And Elkanah, her husband, and all his house, went up to the Lord to offer the peace offerings and the vow.
And he waited seven days, according to the time that Samuel was appointed; but he came not unto Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Judge ye well. And Jonathan and Saul were chosen by lot, and the people went out.
And Jehovah forbid me to stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed one: therefore take the spear that is upon his head and the pitcher, and let us go.
But the fig-tree said unto them, Am I to give up my sweet savor, and my good fruits, and cast out the trees?
Then Saul came to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the prophet is.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border;
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the children of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Thou, Jehovah, didst set the earth upon his foundation, And the heavens are the works of thy hands:
Wherefore God exalted him, and gave him a name, That which is above every name;
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes: I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore now arise early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and as soon as ye rise early in the morning, and have light, depart.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the band of prophets with Samuel in his stead, the Spirit of God came upon Saul's men, and they became like prophets.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the tribulation of death, crowned with glory and glory, that by the grace of God ought death for every man.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul answered, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not in the days appointed, and that the Philistines were gathered at Michmash,
And God brought back the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, to slay his brethren seventy.
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Go up with me into my lot, and we fight against the Canaanite; and I will go, even I, with thee. And Simeon went with him.
And it came to pass the second day, after the new moon, the second day of the month, that David said unto Jonathan his son, Why hath not the son of Jesse come to table, neither yesterday nor to-day?
And David sent messengers, and they knew that Saul was surely come.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house; and David was with his hand as at other times; and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely reign, and the kingdom of Israel shall stand in thy hand.
For verily he did not take upon him the flesh of angels: but he took upon him the seed of Abraham.
Therefore receive this blessing, which thy handmaid hath brought unto thee, my lord; and give it to the young men that follow thee, my lord.
And all the tribes of Israel came near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
For to me that I should live Christ, and to die gain.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, who dwelt in the mountain, and in the south, and in the valley.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Jehovah liveth, and there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now ye would have increased more in mind for me, for which also ye were taking care, and needed the opportunity.
And David was girded with his sword in his apparel, and he sought in vain; for he was not trained to use them. And David said unto Saul, I am not able to walk with these, because I am not trained to use them. And David took them away.
There was a man of Ramah in the hill-country of Ephraim, and Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Shimea, the son of Uzza, the children of Ephraim.
Now the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites:
And they were near Jebus, and the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, let us go, let us go to this city of the Jebusite, and let us lodge in it.
And the lamp of God had not gone out, and Samuel was lying in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And he said unto her, Give me now a little water, for I have need of a drink. And she opened a bottle of milk, and she gave him drink, and covered him again.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid of Judah, and how much more when we go to Keilah, unto the borders of the Philistines?
And he smote the men of Bethshemesh, because they looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote fifty thousand of the men: and the people mourned, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
Not that I speak in mind; for as for me, I have learned in those things wherein I am, to be satisfied in myself.
And the Holy Spirit wrote, that the way of the most holy things is not yet made manifest while the first tabernacle standeth.
And Saul said unto his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through with it; lest these uncircumcised come, and thrust me through, and abuse me; but his armourbearer would not; for he was much afraid. So Saul took the sword, and fell upon it.
And Saul and his men went to seek; and they told David, and he came down from the rock, and dwelt in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard, and pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And all the children of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim heard that the Philistines fled, and joined themselves with their brethren in the battle; and there were with Saul about ten thousand men.
And Zebah and Zalmunna fled, and he pursued after them; and he took the two kings of Midian, as Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the camp.
And the next day the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And the heart of the priest was glad, and took the ephod, and the images, and the graven images, and went in among the people.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgot Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim, and the Asherah.
And Adam said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that thy words come true, that we may glorify thee?
and I said, Now do the Philistines come down unto me unto Gilgal; and I have not appeased the face of Jehovah; and I have cast myself, and I have made the burnt-offering ready.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words which were sent unto him.
And his father and his mother did not know that it was of Jehovah, that he sought the Philistines; and at that time the Philistines reigned over Israel.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, this day is the day of which Jehovah hath said unto thee, Behold, I give thine enemy into thine hand, and thou shalt do unto him whatsoever seemeth good to thee. And David arose, and took the robe of Saul.
And Jehoash the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father in Haran, of the house of Gad.
And the servants of Saul spake these words in the ears of David, and David said, Is it not to thee a light thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am poor and despised?
And Saul answered and said, He besought me that he might go to Bethlehem.
And they called the name of the city Dan after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the city was Achsah at the first.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah answered him, Behold, the man of whom I spake unto thee, this man shall reign over my people.
And the spirit of the Lord was upon Saul, and he sat in his house, and his spear in his hand; and David was girded with the hand.
For the commandment of the commandment is made by one hand, because of his infirmity and unrighteousness.
For he indeed taketh not angels by the hand, but taketh hold of the seed of Abraham.
For I do not have any heart in the heart of any man, who is perfect in all things concerning you.
And this man went up out of his city on the set time, to worship, and to offer sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh: and the two sons of Heli, and Ophni, and Phinehas, were there priests of Jehovah.
and those that were in Hebron, and the rest that were in those places, where David dwelt with his men.
that we may walk in the hearts of our hearts, in the faith, and in our hearts our hearts cleanse with pure water;
And his concubine, that he had in Shechem, bare him a son, whose name was Abimelech.
And the children of Israel took away Baal and Ashtaroth, and the Lord Jehovah only.
And Saul said unto them, Blessed be thou of Jehovah; for thou hast shown me mercy.
And Samuel took a lamb, and offered it as a burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel prayed unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
And Samuel took the bottle of oil, and anointed him there with oil among his brethren; and from that day the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David with power. And Samuel went to Ramah.
For he said in one place of the seventh day, and God rested from all his works on the seventh day.
praying for us; for we trust that we have a good conscience, in all things which will be good.
how will we escape, if we should forget the great salvation which was in the beginning of the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by those that heard,
And Shammah the son took away the two pillars, whereon the house was established, and the one with his right hand, and one with his left.
Wherefore, coming into the world, he saith, Offer and offering thee not, and prepare a body for me;
And the things which came unto thee by my teaching and preaching, and which thou hast seen in me, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And he overlaid his legs with plates of brass, and a spear of brass upon his back.
And again, I will trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God hath given me.
And the people came into the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that, when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And the king said, Ask ye whose son this young man is.
And the children of Naphtali did not destroy the inhabitants of Beth Shemesh, and Bethanath; and he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, and the Gittites, and the people of Beth Togarmah.
And Samuel said, Wherefore askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath departed from thee, and hath become thine adversary?
and let her eat nothing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; and whatsoever I have commanded her, let her perform and keep.
And Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and went in search of David and his men upon the rocks of the mountains.
and ye have known, even ye, that ye excel in it, that in the beginning of the gospel when I went forth from Macedonia, there was no assembly partakers with me in order to give and to receive, but ye only.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them through all the coasts of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his cattle. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out with one consent.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that an evil spirit of God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David was with his hand, as he did day by day: and Saul held his spear in his hand.
And Hananiah prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah; my horn is lifted up in Jehovah; my mouth is opened over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And they said, What is the trespass that we shall bring back unto him? And they said, The number of the princes of the Philistines, five gold, and five of gold, for one plague unto thee, and to thy princes,
And they said unto Tekoah, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
For I have no man like a man, That he should have respect unto thee.
And he came, and blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down from the hill-country with him.
Now therefore let our lord command thy servants, that are before you, to seek out a skilful workman with the harp: and when the evil spirit of God is upon you, he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And it came to pass, when she had said, I will surely go with thee, and thou shalt not honor thee: for Jehovah will give a woman into the hand of a woman; and she rose up, and went with her suburbs to hew out Kedesh.
And the child of Samuel served Jehovah before the first, and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; and there was no vision broken.
Be obedient to them that are leading you, and be under subjection, for these things watch for your souls, that they may do this, that they may do this, and not sigh, for this unprofitable thing to you.
but unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; the scepter of righteousness is the scepter of thy kingdom.
And the princes of the Philistines went out to war; and when they went out, David was wiser than all the servants of Saul; and his name was greatly honored.
And it came to pass, when he was sitting alone, that he sat alone, and said, I have a word from God for thee. And he arose from his throne.
And there went out of the camp of the Philistines three companies: and one company went by the way of Tekoah unto the land of Shuah.
No man taketh this honour on himself; but he is called by God, as Aaron was.
Then went down the remnant to the nobles; The people of Jehovah went down for him against the mighty.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Thou shalt do that which is right in thy eyes: tarry thou till thou recover him: but Jehovah shall fulfill his word. And the woman remained, and nursed her son, until she was weaned.
Go after peace with all, and holiness; And without any man shall see Jehovah.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired, they said, The son of Joash hath done this thing.
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is a man of God in this city, and he is a honourable man: all that he saith shall come to pass: now let us go thither, that he may shew us our way, that we may go.
And when the woman saw that it was Saul, she cried and said unto Saul, Why hast thou beguiled thee? for thou art Saul.
And the spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David made music for him.
And we will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred thousand out of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, that we might fight against the army of Benjamin, and give it unto it for its wickedness, what it is desolate.
And Benjamin came out to meet them from Gibeah on the second day, and destroyed among the children of Israel eighteen thousand men, to the earth; all these are drawn swords.
and thou hast built an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this high place, by the hand of the covenant, and hast taken the second bullock, and burned up a burnt-offering with the wood of the high place which thou hast made.
and thou heardest what they speak, and afterward thy hands waxed strong, and went down against the camp. And he went down, he and his young man, unto the end of the fifty men of the camp.
And they drew up at Beth Shemesh to harvest the wheat in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, The son-in-law of the sister of Serah, because he hath taken away his wife, and giveth her to his friend. And the Philistines went up, and burned her and her father with fire.
What shall I say more? For the time would fail me, if I had spoken unto the king of Babylon, saying, Hew up, I pray thee, my son, and my son, and my son, and my son, and the son of Samuel, and the son of Samuel, and the prophet.
But will not the man by whom the Son of God be broken under foot, and the blood of the covenant with which he was washed clean? and who hath despised the Spirit of grace, being condemned in much damage?
Thou lovest righteousness and hatest iniquity; because of this God thy God hath anointed thee with the oil of joy more than thy fellows.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was in him, and he judged Israel: and he went out to fight; and Jehovah delivered his hand into his hand, and smote the king of Syria, and overthrew him.
And they came into the land of the Kohathites; and Saul said unto his young man that with him, Come, and we turn back, lest my father depart from the asses, and be grieved for us.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
And all the wicked men and the rest of them that went with David answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have recovered, save every man his wife and his children, that he may bring them away, and depart.
For the man that cometh into his rest hath rest from his works, as God did from his.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Jakeh, the son of Zerahiah, the son of Kemuel, the son of Benjamin, a mighty man of valour.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to make war against the Canaanite in the hill-country, and in the south, and in the lowland.
and another went by the way of Beth-horon; and the third went to the way of the border, which is over the valley of the wilderness toward the wilderness.
Now there was no wise man in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Neither can the Hebrews make swords or spears for themselves.
For they that were full have hired themselves bread; and they that were hungry are satisfied: yea, the barren have borne seven, and the children of many languisheth.
I have not sinned against thee, but thou hast dealt treacherously with me; and Jehovah the judge judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And David was in all his ways wisely, and Jehovah with him.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old: but that which is waxed old and waxed old is near to pass away.
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
And Shammah the son called unto Jehovah, and said, Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, this time, O God; and I will avenge myself at once, because of my two eyes upon the Philistines.
And Saul armed David with his armor, and put a chain of brass upon his head; and he girded him with a coat of mail.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, the evil spirit of God troubleth you.
There is none like unto Jehovah, for there is none besides thee; there is no Rock like our God.
And the princes of Issachar, Deborah; and the children of Issachar were at the valley; and the children of Reuben were in the valley; and the children of Reuben were according to their families.
who, having walked in the form of God, did not esteem it as an instrument of filthy things with God.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Say, How is this wickedness?
And the man arose to go, and his father-in-law pressed upon him; and he turned and lodged there.
then it shall not be an occasion for you, nor a stumbling-block of conscience for my lord's sake, neither by the blood of blood, nor by my lord taking the matter into his own hands: and when Jehovah doeth good to my lord, remember thy handmaid.
And now, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant: If Jehovah hath moved thee against me, let him accept a present; and if the sons of men be cursed before Jehovah, because they have cast me out to-day from being admitted into the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
by faith, having been reproved by faith, having been reproved by faith, made a ship for the salvation of his house, by which he pronounced judgment on the world, and became an heir of righteousness.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man? and who art like thee in Israel? but why hast thou not seen thy lord the king? for one of the people had come in to destroy the king, thy lord.
And it came to pass, when his servants told David these words, that it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law:
And David heard that the man of Nabal died, and said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath delivered the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal the Carmelite, and the wickedness of the dead hath Jehovah turned again upon his own head. And David sent and spake with Abigail, to take her to him for a wife.
Be Jehovah judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and judge my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And the inhabitants of Shechem put a secret guard upon the top of the mountains; and they smote all that went by on the way, and took their spoil; and word came to Abimelech.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, consider this man of Belial; for as his name is, so is he; and the Carmelite is with him; and I thy handmaid did not see the young men of my lord, whom thou sentest.
Only let your conversation do the good tidings of Christ; that if I come and see you, or if I depart from you, I may tell you that ye are strong in one spirit, working together with one accord for the faith of the gospel.
This is not good, that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are the children of death, who have not kept your master, the anointed of Jehovah. And now where is the king's spear, and the cup of water, which was at his head?
Not that I have received this, neither was now made perfect; but I persecuted, if indeed I may take hold of that which also I was borne by Christ.
that ye may approve the better things, that ye may be pure and without fault unto the day of Christ,
which God, willing to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise, which is in his purpose, wrought by an oath,
And when the servants of David came, they spake unto the Carmelite all these words in the name of David, and they held their peace.
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after gain, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.
And the chief men of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy army?
But they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim, and for Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And her husband rose up, and went after her, to speak kindly to her, to bring her again; and his servant was with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
Jesus Christ is this day, this day and ever.
And the king said to Baal, Turn thee, and come against the priests: and let the Edomites turn round about, and come against the priests, and slay them in that day fourscore men, and five men with a linen ephod.
and all the border of the Amorites from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
Are they not all helping spirits, who are sent out as servants unto those whose inheritance shall be saved?
And David took of her hand from her hand, and said unto her, Go up to thy house in peace; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and accept thy face.
And they turned, and fled toward the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon; and they gathered five thousand men out of them in the highways, and followed after them, and slew of them two thousand men.
And thou shalt make the molten images of thy leprosy, and of the mouse that destroyeth thy land, and give glory unto the God of Israel: and it shall be that the weight of his hand shall be taken from thee, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
And Amasa went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Abimelech the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, and his name went out with him; and he fled after David.
And the transgressors answered them, and said, Who is David, the son of Jesse? there are many servants in these days running away from their masters.
And Adam said unto his wife, Death shall surely be our portion; for it is a god whom we have seen.
Some therefore preach Christ also of envy and strife; and some also of good will.
But the things that have been profited unto me, I have counted for Christ.
For where there is, there is a necessity for the death of him that made the will to be established.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Deborah, between Ramah and Bethel, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went up unto her for judgment.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul, when he heard these words, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
For ye had compassion on them that were in bonds, and took away the spoil of your goods, knowing that thou hast a better and a long substance.
For our life is in heaven, and from whence we wait for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
For the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner also in the same manner, that he might destroy him that had the world of death, that is to say, The devil.
And the men of Beth Shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall it go up from us?
And the children of Gilead took the plains of the Jordan against the children of Ephraim; and the men of Gilead said, Let me pass over. And the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou a children of Ephraim? If he said, No.
Salute every one of the saints in Christ Jesus. The brethren salute you.
And he said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he thrust with all his strength, and the house fell upon the princes, and upon all the people that were with him; and the dead, whom he slew in his death, were more than they slew in his life.
And the servant answered, and said, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give it unto the man of God, and he will teach us our way.
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and all the men, women, and lords of the city, fled thither, and shut themselves in; and they went up to the roof of the tower.
But in the middle of the city there was a strong tower; and all the men and women of the city fled and besieged, and went up to the roof of the tower.
But because it is not lawful to swear, ( for they are the priests),
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Verily, women have been kept from us for three days; and when I came out, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was only a land: how much more shall their vessels be holy?
And Abimelech reigned over Israel three years.
And Saul fell at once all on the earth, and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines saw David, and saw David, that he had a poor man in his sight: for he was only a child, tender and tender.
and a ring of brass upon his feet, and a spear of brass between his shoulders;
And when Samuel was dead, and all Israel wept for him, they buried him in Ramah, and in his city; and Saul had cast out from the land all that had familiar spirits, and out of the land.
Now therefore, O king, come down, according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our portion shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
And David rose and fled on that day from the face of Saul, and went in unto the king of Gath.
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hath this day come upon Israel, that one tribe is cut off from Israel?
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Adam, Let the woman be attentive unto all that I have said.
And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, and will do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed continually.
Then the old man said, Peace be with thee: only let all thy desire lie upon me; but lodge not in the street.
And Eliab his firstborn, when he heard what David had said unto the men, was moved to wrath against David, and said, Why art thou come hither? to whom hast thou given the flocks of sheep in the wilderness? I know your pride and the evil of your heart, and come down to see the battle.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah: for ye have mercy on me.
whose voice shook the earth; but now he hath promised, saying, Yet again I shake not the earth alone, but also the heavens.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
For he hath not made him to serve the world, concerning which we speak.
And he smote the priests with the edge of his sword, both men and women, and children, and infants, and oxen, and ass, and sheep with the edge of the sword.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and put into the hands of all the trumpets, and empty cups, with torches within the vessels.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the threshing instruments, and taught by them the men of Succoth.
And thou shalt hear what they say; and afterwards thy hands shall be strengthened to go down into the camp. And he went down with the conduit of his servant unto the end of the armed men that were in the camp.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear; and let one of the young men pass over, and receive it.
but a fearful expectation of judgment, and a furious fire, which shall devour the adversaries.
Have I now begun to inquire of God this day? be it far from me, and let not the king impute anything to his servant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy servant knoweth all this, less or more.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; and they came as grasshoppers for multitude; for both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they rose early in the morning, that he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Comfort thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward go thy way.
Now these things were prepared in this way; and the priests enter into the first tent continually, according to their service.
And Jabez, the wife of Heber, took a hammer and a hammer, and went up to him quietly, and cast the girdle into his head, and it went through his head to the earth; for he was in a deep sleep from weary; and so he came to his end.
And he took ten men from his servants, and did according to the word of Jehovah; and he feared the house of his father, and the men of the city by night; and he did it by night.
And it came to pass at the end of ten days, that Jehovah smote the Carmelite, and died.
and he, because of his remaining age old, hath the priesthood no more.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatever seemeth good unto thee: deliver us only, we pray thee this day.
Are they not able, are they not divided among them? a young maid, or two unto every man, and to Sisera of the broidered work, and to Sisera of fine colours, upon this side, and upon that, for the neck of the queen?
And he cried unto Jehovah, and entreated the Midianites.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and we shall eat upon them till the light of the morning, and leave not a man of them. And they said, All that is good in thine eyes do. And the priest said, Let us draw near hither unto God.
And when he was come, behold, a man spake a dream unto his neighbour, and said, Behold, I had a dream: and, behold, I had a dream, and there was a cake of barley bread in the camp of Midian, and smote it, and it fell, and turned it upside down, that the tent was flat.
And he put his hands upon the two pillars of the house, and put his weight upon them, and upon the one with his right hand, and on the left.
but lay himself in the form of a servant, in the likeness of men; and being found in appearance like a man,
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant into the chamber, and made them take the high place among all the guests that were there, about thirty souls.
And he shewed them the way into the city, and they smote it with the edge of the sword; but they let the man, and all his house escape.
Brethren, be ye imitators of me, and keep them that walk, as ye have our pattern.
And the stork gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Thou art escaped of Ephraim, O Gilead, in the midst of Ephraim, and in the midst of Manasseh.
And David sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to the Carmelite, and speak kindly unto him in my name.
And, behold, the men of that city, in the night, surrounded the house in which I was, minded to kill me, and treated my wife with a great wrath, that she died.
And thou shalt show mercy unto thy servant: for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant with thee: but if there be iniquity in me, then slay me. But why do thou bring me unto thy father?
And David said, Only in vain have I kept all that this hath in the wilderness; and I have not looked after all that he hath, and turned again to me evil for good.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the herdsmen of Shechem; and Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech.
and Kish begat Saul, and Ner begat Abner,
For this cause, as we walk by so great a cloud of witnesses, putting off every weight, and the sin into which we come, let us run in the way which is marked for us,
And when Samuel turned away to go away, Saul took the hem of his garment in his hand, and the napkin went away.
And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, I beseech thee, O Lord, that the armor of God, which thou didst send, may come again, and teach us what we ought to do concerning the child that shall be born.
And he drew out the power of the fire, and escaped the edge of the sword, and was strong in his weakness, and became mighty in war, and caused strangers to flee.
What then? Yea, every way, whether it be, or in truth, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
Gilead dwelleth beyond the Jordan, and Dan, and dwelleth in ships: Asher sat upon the sea-shore, and dwelt in his den.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers, who spoiled them; and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, so that they could no more stand before their enemies.
Hear ye that are rulers over you, and do as they say: for they keep watch over your souls, ready to give account of them; let them be able to do this with joy, and not with sorrow, because that it is profitable for you.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna, now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
I am able to do all things through him that giveth me strength.
And Ehud went forth into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and shut them.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
And he said unto him, O my lord, if Jehovah is with us, why hast Jehovah with us? and where are all the works of his hands, which our fathers have commanded us, saying, Did not Jehovah take us out of Egypt? but now he hath delivered us up, and delivered us into the hand of Midian.
And it came to pass in the morning, that her master arose, and opened the door of the house to go on his way: and he saw his servant's wife laid on the earth at the door of the house with her hands upon the steps.
Let thy forbearance be known unto all men; Jehovah is near.
If they shall fall away, to revive them again unto repentance; seeing they have crucified to themselves the Son of God, and put him to shame.
I have done no wrong against thee, but thou hast dealt treacherously with me: Jehovah, who judgest this day, judge between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
The children of vain are the children of Belial: they have not known Jehovah.
And Deborah, a prophetess, was a prophetess, and she judged Israel at that time.
From henceforth wait, till his enemies be made his footstool.
If he be able to fight with me, and to smite me, then will we be thy servants; but if I smite and smite him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But I thought it necessary to send to you, my brother, and to my fellow-soldier, and to the soldier, and to thy servant, and to thy servant;
And the children of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand; and they set on fire all the cities that they came to.
And six hundred men stood before the door, and set up their hands.
Thou hast made him a little more than messengers; Thou hast crowned him with glory and honor, And hast set him over the works of thy hands.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron; and the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba, and Ahiman, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they smote the rock of Oreb, and the likeness of Zeeb; and they went after Midian; but they went after Midian; but the chiefs of Oreb and of Zeeb went up Jordan.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
With whom was he displeased forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
Oh that this people were under my hand, that I might take away Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy army, and come out.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long shall thou mourn over Saul, seeing I have cast him off from the king of Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the son of Bethlehem: for I have given a king for myself among his sons.
As to the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, even to me indeed is not carnal, but unto you it is necessary.
And David passed over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off; and there was a great space between them.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel, when the two ears of every one hear it tingle.
And Judah took Gaza, and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and its border.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she made him to shave off the seven hair of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went out from him.
Now therefore, my lord, the Lord liveth, and thy soul liveth, who hath withheld thee from coming to blood, and hath delivered thy hand unto thee; and now let thy enemies be as the sinner, and all those that seek evil to my lord.
And after this he loved a woman in the valley of Eshcol, called by name.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and took their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me daily; and tomorrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thine heart.
Why didst thou sit among the sheepfolds? To hear the wailing for the flocks? At the watercourses of Reuben, there were great sore.
And the children of Asher dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the inhabitants of the land; for they drove them not out.
But they that went into the house of the young man went about to take away the graven image, and the ephod, and the molten image, and the molten god, and the priest stood before the door; and the six hundred men stood not far off.
For all seek the things that are their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
And his armourbearer said unto him, Do all that pleaseth thee: go whither thou wilt, and I will be with thee whithersoever thou hast a mind.
And it came to pass in Israel, that a man came to inquire of God, saying, Come, let us go to the prophet; for he that is now called a prophet, in time past was called a prophet.
that this is not to thee for a stumbling-block, and for a trespass of heart to my lord, that thou shouldest shed blood for nought, or my lord that holdeth his hand: and Jehovah hath dealt good to my lord, and thou hast remembered thy handmaid.
And as Samuel turned away, he laid hold on the hem of his garment, and it rent.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
If they shall speak thus unto us, tarry until we come unto you: let us stand still in our place, and not go up unto them.
So David went, and he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the river country, and there were some weary.
And Samuel said, Why askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath turned away from thee, and hath become thine enemy?
This is the covenant which I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my judgments in their hearts, and write them in their heart, saying,
who serve a copy of the fashion and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was instructed by God, when he had made the tabernacle; for he said, Behold, thou shalt make all according to the pattern that was shewn thee on the mount.
And God turned back the evil of Abimelech, which he had done to his father to slay his seventy brethren.
Ask thy young men, and they will show thee; wherefore let the young men find favour in thine eyes; for we come in a good day: give, give, I pray thee, everything that cometh to thy servants, and to thy son David.
And he gathered to himself the children of Ammon and the Amalekites; and he went and smote Israel, and they took possession of the city.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up for them a deliverer, and Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite, and a left of him; and the children of Israel sent unto Eglon, king of Moab.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned, because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah and thy words; for I feared the people, and I heard their voice.
And this is the thing which ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain with him.
Salute your brethren in the faith.
Go and cry unto the gods which thou hast chosen; Let them deliver thee in the time of thy trouble.
For the women received their dead again by resurrection; and others were tormented, not having received salvation, that they might receive a better resurrection.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and came to David into the wood, and strengthened his hands in God; and he said unto him,
And they laid the ark of God upon the cart, and the golden chest that had in it the golden parts, and the form of the moving flesh.
Are ye better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? hath he taken up a cause against Israel, and made war against them?
And the enemy fled, and chased after him; and they caught him, and cut off his hands, and the great toes.
But they would not hearken unto him; and the man laid hold of his concubine, and brought her out to them; and they had lain with her, and treated her all night until the morning: and when the day began to dawn, they let her go.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this wickedness: turn not aside from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all your heart;
Look unto the dogs, and look unto the workers, And seek the reproach.
And Jonathan said unto him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be left.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed from the tribe of Benjamin that day twenty and five thousand men; all these drew the sword.
And Samuel saw him no more till the day of his death; but Samuel mourned for Saul; and it was no more the pleasure of Jehovah to be king over Israel.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him with all your heart; for behold, what great things he hath done unto thee.
And the son of Shelemiah went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate; and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait.
And we will take ten men out of every hundred, throughout all the tribes of Israel, a hundred thousand out of every thousand, a thousand out of every thousand, to get bread for the people, that they may give to the children of Benjamin the right punishment for the work of their shame which they have done in Israel.
And when his servant saw that Saul was dead, he did likewise, and was also with him in death.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon made war with Israel, that the elders of Gilead went to draw out of the land of Tob,
And when she was old, he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel, and how they slept with the women that ministered at the door of the tent of meeting.
And the whole congregation sent to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peace unto them.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring these men, that we may kill them.
And the Philistines were subdued, and they went not again to the coasts of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have done the commandment of Jehovah.
And they set for them the graven image of Micah, which he had made, even all the days of the house of God at Shiloh.
who shall change our body of shame into subjection unto his body of glory, according to the working of power, which he hath, to subdue all things unto himself.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and they also were called after him; and he sent messengers throughout Asher, and Zebulun, and Naphtali, and went up to meet them.
In those days there was no king in Israel; Every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
Wherefore let us go with confidence unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace in time of need.
And they took their bones, and buried them in the wood of Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now Jehovah hath established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
and ye have risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons seventy souls on one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother.
This is the covenant that I will make with them, saith Jehovah, saying, I will put my law in their heart, and I will write them upon their heart;
and not let yourselves be afraid of your adversaries, which is a sign of destruction unto them, but of your salvation, and of God;
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron, and it came to pass, when the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekron cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay us and our people.
Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompence.
And Saul sent for all the people to go to the battle, and went down to Keilah to fight David and his men.
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan shewed him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as in times past.
But out of all the cities of their inheritance they gathered themselves together into Gibeah, to help them, and to fight against all Israel.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and obey his voice, and rebel not against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king that reigneth over you, cleave unto Jehovah your God:
Wherefore I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And the king sat, as at other times by the wall; and Jonathan was before him, and Abner sat by Saul's side; but there was none in David's throne.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah concerning Midian,
And Elon the Hittite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spake these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And Jehovah sent cedar-trees, and Ziza, and Jinath, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of thine enemies on every side, and ye dwelt in safety.
Of all these were seven hundred men, who were left in the hand of the king, seven hundred men, who were left with a stone, and were not missing.
Now when David returned, after he was slain the Philistines, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul with timbrels and with cornets.
And they played the harlot with strange gods, and worshiped them: they quickly forsook the way wherein their fathers walked; and they heard the commandments of Jehovah, and they did all things against.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and go with us, and be unto us for a father and a priest: is it better, that it is better to be a priest to the house of one man, or thy prince to a tribe, and to a house of Israel?
And they took the two princes of Midian, and did Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew at the rock of Oreb, and with like Zeeb; and pursued Midian; and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to the land of Oreb and Zeeb, on the other side of the Jordan.
And the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain on mount Gilboa.
And they cut off Saul's head, and stripped him of his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the houses of their idols, and among their people.
And thou shalt say unto God, Thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken;
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God.
And the men of the place answered Jonathan, and the bearer of his weapons, and said, Come up unto us, and we cause thee to know something. And Jonathan said unto the bearer of his weapons, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath given them into the hand of Israel.
And as for you, make not a covenant with the inhabitants of this land: break down their altars. But ye hearkened not unto my voice: why should ye do such a thing?
Speak, I pray thee, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, whether it is better for you, that all the sons of Jerubbesheth, which are threescore and ten, reign over you, or that one reign over you? and remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the children of Dan sent five of them out of their house, men of valor, out of Zorah, and out of Sharon, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said unto them, Go, inspect the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
and Jehovah did unto him as he spake by me: for Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand, and gave it to thy neighbour, even to David.
Oh, that thou mayest shut up the doors of our enemies, and keep them,
And as for me, I have given him unto Jehovah: all the days that he liveth he is to Jehovah; and he bowed down before Jehovah there.
and thou shalt have no cause for sorrow, neither shall my lord's heart be troubled, because thou hast taken life without cause, and hast borne thy iniquity; and thou hast dealt bountifully with thy servant.
And the mountains melted before Jehovah, and Sinai before the Lord God of Israel.
But Jonathan heard not when his father commanded the people: wherefore he put forth the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, that both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, until thou comest to Sur, which is over Egypt.
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his portion goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that waiteth for the stuff; they shall be one member.
and there was a trembling in the camp, and in the field, and among all the people; and the people stood, and the destroyers shook; and the earth trembled, and became a trembling of God.
and thou shalt see, and if it go up by the way of his own border unto Beth Shemesh, then he hath done this great evil; but if not, we shall know that it is not his hand touched us, but it is come to pass.
But if they say, Come up unto us, and we will go up: for Jehovah hath given them into our hand, and this will be the sign for us.
For we ought to have such a high priest, holy, pure, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made high above the heavens;
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah would bring us to death, he had not received from our hands burnt offerings and oblation, nor shewed us all these things, nor as at this time made us hear.
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Bethel, toward the sunrising that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south side of the wall.
And they found a man, an Egyptian in the field, and fetched him to David, and gave him bread, and he ate, and they gave him drink water.
But to abide in the flesh is needful for your sakes.
And he inquired for him in the Lord, and he gave him provisions, and the sword of Goliath the Philistines gave him.
And Saul spake nothing on that day; for he said, He is not clean; he is not clean.
the new and the living way which he hath sanctified for us through the veil, that is, his flesh,
And said unto Samuel, Go down, and if he shall call thee, then thou shalt say, Speak unto Jehovah, for thy servant heareth. And Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the children of Dan, and his name Hezron, whose wife was barren, and had not borne.
And from thence he went up against the inhabitants of Debir: the name of Debir before that was Kirjathsepher.
And the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt; neither came we any more, as long as we were with them, when we were in the field.
And the man said to him, I am he that came out of the battle, and I fled to-day out of the battle. And he said, What is the place, my son?
Now therefore go, and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that he hath: spare him not, nor covet anything that is his; but slay man and woman, and the child and the suckling, the ox and the sheep, and the camel and the ass.
And they sent for all the princes of the Philistines, and they came together, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken away to Gath; and they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
And how shall we escape, if we fail so great salvation, which at first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by those who heard him?
( For my father fought for you, and laid in jeopardy his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian;)
And all the people feared Jehovah and Samuel; and all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we may not die: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take for thy brethren an ephah of barley, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp unto thy brethren;
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed after them in the battle.
And he gave back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I have surely consecrated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand, for my son, to make a graven image and molten image; and now I will give it to thee.
Therefore even the first covenant is not consecrated without blood.
If he say, It is well, thy servant shall have peace: but if he be angry, then know that evil is determined by him.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all your heart; for behold how great things he hath done unto thee.
And his mother made him a little garment, which she brought unto him in the appointed days, when she went up with her husband, to offer the sacrifice.
And the prince of the city heard the words of Gath the son of Shelemiah, and his wrath burned.
For when Moses had commanded all the words of the people according to the law, he took the blood of bullocks, and of goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled the book, and all the people.
And he went also to Ramah, and came to the great well that was in Jabez; and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, at Ramah.
For the law setteth men high for the chief priests, which have fainted; but the word of the promise which came after the law shall be given unto the ages for ever.
And now stand still, that I may plead with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he did unto you and to your fathers.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and in the villages thereof, and in Aroer, and in its villages, and in all the cities which are by the side of the Arnon, for three hundred years, why did ye not return them at that time?
But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he was beaten in the prison house.
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, all Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye reproached me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?
But, beloved, we are persuaded good things of you, and things that go with salvation, though we speak.
And Hananiah prayed, and said, My heart hath lifted up my heart in Jehovah; my horn is exalted in Jehovah; and my mouth is great over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou bring me down to this band? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, and that thou shalt not deliver me into my master's hand, that I may bring thee down to this band.
For to me that is Christ, and to die, is the Christ.
And the children of Israel went up, and wept before Jehovah until even, and enquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Jonathan the son, that he may recover us. And they called for Jonathan the son of the prison, and did before them; and they set him between the pillars.
And David rose early in the morning, and left the flock with a shepherd; and he took the provision, and went as Jesse had commanded him: and he came to the camp, and the people came to the battle, and they lifted up the battle.
For he hath not appointed the world to come, whereof we speak unto angels.
And what shall I say more? For the time shall come upon me, that I may say unto the children of Israel,'Lift up the rod, and say unto me, Lift up, I pray thee, against the sons of David, and against the sons of David, and against the sons of Samuel, and upon the prophets.
And Saul returned from following the Philistines, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
and now, behold, the king walketh before thee; and I am become old and tender, and my sons, behold, they are with you; and I walk before thee from my youth unto this day.
And there were also many priests, because of death they suffered not to remain.
And being old was old, and he heard all that his sons did to all Israel, and how they lay with the women that waited at the door of the tabernacle:
But the captains of the Philistines were wroth with him, and said unto him, Send the man back, that he may return to his place where thou hast appointed him; but he will not go down with us into the battle, lest he be an adversary to us in the battle: how can this man make himself good unto his lord? is it not with the heads of these men?
For every man that is greedy of milk, in the word of righteousness, is a child.
And Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah God of Israel, when I have sounded my father hitherto, or the third day, and behold, if there be good toward David, and I send not unto thee, and shew it thee;
Salute all saints in Christ Jesus: salute ye the brethren with me.
And they said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son hither, that he may die: for he hath destroyed the altar of Baal, and hath cut down his Asherah.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus by my presence with you.
And the armed men of the forces gave up Jonathan and his servant, saying, Come up hither to us, and we will let you see. And Jonathan said to his servant, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them up into the hands of Israel.
if thou shalt fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and rebel not against the voice of Jehovah, that thou and thy king that ruleth over thee shall follow after Jehovah thy God, and all shall be well.
And David spake unto the Hittites, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go with thee.
And David said, Ye shall not do this, my brethren, according to what Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us safe, and delivered our hands into our hands.
And it came to pass, that the Edomites, which were by the side of Saul's servants, answered, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
And she fastened it with the girdle, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, and Shammah the son. And he awoke from his sleep, and went away with the hammer of the wood, and with the house.
And Shammah the son said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the nobles, and upon all the people that were therein; and the dead, which he slew at his death, were more than they that he slew in his life.
to whom also Abraham divided the tithe of all; who first by interpretation, is king of justice; and then, king of Salem, who is king of peace.
And Jotham, when he heard it, went to the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice, saying, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hear you.
And when Sisera had gathered all his chariots, and all the people that were with him, and all the people that were with him, even unto the brook of Gaash,
And Samuel was a child before Jehovah, clothed with a linen ephod.
Then said Samuel, Wherefore do thou ask me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
But where there is forgiveness of them, there is no sin for sin.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth, with all thy heart; for see how great things he hath done unto thee.
And it came to pass, when three companies blew, and brake the vessels, that they held in their left hand the lamps, and the trumpets with their right hand, and cried out, saying, A sword is for Jehovah, and for battle.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their tents for the war, to fight against Israel, and said unto David, Surely thou knowest that thou shalt go forth into the camp, thou and thy men.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go, lie in the vineyards.
And he said, Bring me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings; and he offered the burnt-offering.
And David fled from the ascent of Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? what is my sin? what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And there came out ten thousand men of all Israel out of all Israel against Gibeah, and the battle became fierce; and they knew not that evil was upon them.
And Saul was wroth with Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of an evil and rebellious woman, hast I not seen how thou hast given thy love to the son of Jesse, to shame and to the shame of thy mother?
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made without children, so shall thy mother be barren among women; and Agag shall be overthrown by Samuel, the bones of the bones, before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But now at the end of these days hath it come to us through his Son, to whom he hath given all things for a heritage, and through whom he made the order of the ages:
And he said unto his men, Far be it from me in Jehovah, that I may do this thing unto my lord, to the anointed of Jehovah, to stretch out my hand against him: for he is the anointed one of Jehovah.
five ships of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, that dwell in Lebanon; from mount Hermon unto the entering into Hamath.
And the lad knew nothing; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
And she said, Give me a blessing, for thou hast given me a dry land: give me also a land of water. So Caleb gave her the upper and the lower land.
And the watchmen of Saul, who were in Gibeah of Benjamin, looked, and, behold, a multitude was overthrown, and fled this way.
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do a thing in Israel, which shall cause the two ears of all that hear it.
And his father-in-law, the father of the damsel, besought him to tarry with him three days: and they did eat and drink, and lodged there the night.
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man of war? is there any other like thee in Israel? why have thou not kept thy lord the king? for one of the people came to put the king thy lord to death.
And it came to pass, when they waited, that they tarried, and passed by the stone, and went to the den.
So Samuel lay down until the morning; and he opened the doors of the house of Jehovah; but Samuel was afraid of the vision to the vision.
And the Amorites oppressed the children of Dan unto the mount; for they suffered them not to go down into the valley.
And now this blessing which thy handmaid hath brought to my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
The Lord is between you and me for ever and ever.
And Saul answered and said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, of the least of the tribes of Israel, and the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why do thou speak such words unto me?
And he said unto his servants, Search for me a woman that is a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and enquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that is a harlot at Endor.
But if they say, Come up unto us, and we will go up: for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; this shall be the sign unto us.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go unto this Philistine, to fight with him; for thou art a young man, and he is a man of war from his youth.
If therefore the things in the heavens should be made clean with these things, and the things which are in heaven are more than these.
And when Sisera gathered all his chariots, even one hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the descent of the nations, unto the river Kishon.
all things thou didst put under subjection under his feet; for in the dispensation of him all things did not depart from him, and now we see not the things that are subjected to him.
the word of life bearing forth, for rejoicing unto me in the day of Christ, that I run not in vain, nor in vain did I labor.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baalim.
if by any means I may attain unto the resurrection from the dead.
But they had a treasure for the caterpillar, and for the cutting of the liver, and for the forks, and for the axes, and for the cutting of the nails.
and I will blow with the trumpet, I and all that with me, and ye shall blow with trumpets, even ye, round about all the camp, and say, Jehovah, and for the altar.
And the king of Amalek said unto him, Arise, I pray thee, far away from me, even the king of Amalek; and he shall bring his fat and his fat upon him, and his glory shall be with him.
And they sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have ye to do with me, that ye have come to me to fight against my land?
And her sister's wife was to provoke her to anger, because Jehovah had shut her up.
And Samuel spake unto the people the right of the kingdom, and they wrote in a book, and laid before Jehovah; and Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
that he might test Israel, and see whether they will keep the way of Jehovah, and walk in it, as their fathers did, or not.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz, and Abner the son of Ner, the brother of Saul's father.
and see, and know of all the houses where he hideth himself, and ye turn again unto me, and I go with you, and it shall be, if he be in the land, that I have sought him out through all the thousands of Judah.
But I have much more earnest to do this, that I may speed unto you more speedily.
And God did so that night; for it was dry upon the wool, and there was dew upon all the earth.
For ye know that afterward, when he would have received the blessing, he was rejected: for he did not find a place of repentance, though he sought it with tears.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and drew near unto the door of the tower, to burn it with fire.
And behold, I will send the lad, saying, Go, find the arrows. If I say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are upon this side of thee, take them; then come, for there is peace for thee, and it is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
And it came to pass, when Jehovah gave them judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered their enemies from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for Jehovah was moved by their provocation because of them that were cruel to them.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man to his tribe, and to his house; and they went forth from thence every man to his inheritance.
And Jehovah said unto him, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel triumph against me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
And he said, This shall be the way of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots.
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before was KirjathSepher.
And they said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me back again to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah will deliver them before me, will I be your head?
And Saul said, Draw near hither, all the heads of the people; and know, and see, and see wherein this sin is this day.
The river of the river took them away, And stood their flight, The river of the river; Praise, O my soul, to the strength of Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house, and he shall walk before mine anointed for ever.
And the wall of Jericho fell down, and the wall of Jericho fell upon them seven days.
And she said unto Shammah the son, Hitherto thou hast played upon me, and speakest unto me falsehood: tell me with which thou art bound. And he said unto her, If thou be cut off the veil of my head with the house.
And he ran to him, and said, Behold, I am, because thou hast called me. But he said, I have not called thee: go again, and lie down. And he went and lay down.
And he said, Upon whom have thou smitten this day? David said, Concerning the south of Judah, and against the south of the father of Jerahmeel, and against the land of the Kenites.
And it came to pass, when all his acquaintances were before, seeing, and, behold, he had prophesied with prophets, and the people said one to another, What hath happened to the son of Kish? is he also among the prophets?
And when thou hast stayed three days, then shalt thou go down quickly, and come to the place where thou hast hid thyself, when the business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone of Ephraim.
but those out of strife confess Christ, not corrupt, supposing to make trouble for my chain.
Brethren, I consider myself not to lay hold of it: but I do one thing, and I forget the things that are behind, and labour in the way.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppress you;
In the day that he saith, I have sacrificed, and burnt offerings, and all burnt-offerings, and offerings for sin, and ye have not delight in it; for it is according to the law,
that no man should commit fornication, nor any of the children of the world, as Esau; for he that selleth his own birthright.
who is made, not according to the law of the law, but after the power of an endless life.
And six hundred armed men of the children of Dan stood by the door.
At this time to-morrow I send unto thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou hast anointed him over my people Israel; and he hath delivered my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen my people, for their cry is come in unto me.
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes, I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing unto Jehovah the God of Israel.
And he spake again, and said, Behold, people come down from the middle of the temple; and there is a division from the hand of the giant.
When thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, thou saidst unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
And the sons of his body, the sons of his father, were threescore and seventy; for he had many wives.
But if it is to dwell in the flesh, this is good for me; and I know that I know not.
And Saul came unto Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the house of the prophet is.
And he said also to the men of Peniel, When I return safely, I will break down this tower.
For men swear by the greater, and an end of all controversy unto them for a sign;
But if ye can not tell me, then ye shall give me thirty curtains and thirty changes of garments. And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.
And he set up the rods, and let the foxes loose among the fallen corn of the Philistines, and the fair corn, and the vineyards, and the olive trees, and the olive oil.
but they bring forth thorns and thorns; it is found waste, and is near to a curse, whose end is to be burned.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives according to their number, of them that were merry, whom they took; and they went and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
and five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in Lebanon, from mount Hermon unto the entering in of Hamath;
Go now, and smite Amalek with the edge of the sword, and smite them with the curse, every man and woman, and every child, and the child, and the ass, and the camel, and the camel, and the ass.
And the young men of David came, and they spake all these words unto the Carmelite in the name of David; and they waited.
But I have all things in full measure and in abundance; I am full, having received the things out of thee, an offering of sweet savor, a sweet savour, a sweet savour, a sweet savour.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him with power, and with power, and with a strong hand, and he smote the lion in two, and slew him; but he said nothing to his father and to his mother.
Arise, arise, ye swift ones, arise, arise, arise, and utter a song: arise, O ye sons of Abinadab, take hold of thy captives, O ye sons of Abinadab.
And I delivered you out of the hand of Egypt, and out of the hand of all your oppressors, and drove them out from before you; and I gave you their land.
And Israel set a lie at Gibeah round about.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the princes of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men, men of both, from the roof, and the higher part of the house, were there, and beheld the men playing.
And David passed over to the other side, and took his place on the top of a mountain afar off, and a space between them.
For every high priest that is separated from among men is appointed for men in the things pertaining to God, that he may offer both things and sacrifices for sin,
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; and if the young men be saved from women.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli; and the word of Jehovah was grievous in those days, and a vision was not grievous.
and to them that were in Hebron, and unto all the places where David himself was, and all his men were wont to camp.
And Samuel saw Saul no more till the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul, because Jehovah repented that he had made him king over Israel.
And when he was come in, he saw a dream to his friend, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream: and, behold, a piece of barley bread is turned into the camp of Midian; and it cometh into the tent, and smote it, and it fell, and it falleth upward, and the tent fell.
In that day I establish unto myself all that I have spoken unto his house, beginning and finished.
And unto Hananiah he gave a portion; for he loved Hananiah, but Jehovah shut up her womb.
who hath not day by day, as the high priests, first to offer sacrifice for his own sins, then those of the people: for this he did once for all that he had made.
In that day he gave unto him, at Ziklag, and in Ziklag unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
Wherefore it was necessary for him to be made like unto the brethren, that he might be a faithful and faithful priest in the things with God, to make atonement for the sins of the people;
And no man that is not of God, as Aaron, taketh this honor for himself.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die, lest he go down to battle and perish.
For Moses indeed was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of the things that were hereafter.
And he chose for himself three thousand men of Israel, and two thousand of them with Saul, at Michmash in the hill-country of Bethel, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah in Benjamin; and he sent away the rest of the people, every one to his tent.
And when he had said this so he fled, and went into five men, and dwelt there for fear of Abimelech his brother.
Now therefore, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired; and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And as for a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
So David hid himself in the field; and when the new moon was come, the king sat down to eat flesh.
And Jehovah called the name of Samuel a third time, and rose up, and came to him, and said, Behold, I am, because thou hast called me. And she knew that Jehovah called the child.
And he had thirty sons, riding upon thirty asses, and they had thirty cities, which are called Jair, unto this day, which is in the land of Gilead.
and being seen in form as a man, he took the lowest place, and he was put to death, even the death of the cross.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and those that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel had fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they left the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah; and David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And David smote the land, and spared not man and woman, and took sheep, and oxen, and asses, and camels, and raiment, and turned back, and came in unto Paradise.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I say indeed that your house and your father's house shall walk before me for ever: but now Jehovah saith, I will not be far from me; for they that fear me will I honor, and they that despise me shall be despised.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread out a troop.
And the Holy Spirit spake unto them, that the way into the sanctuary had not been opened, but the tabernacle was yet in;
But this priest, because his life endureth for ever.
Ye rejoiced not in burnt offerings, Nor in offerings of sin.
And it shall come to pass after a long time, that he saith in a certain day, that he saith in David, To-day, as he said before, behold, if thou wilt hear his voice, be not stiffnecked;
And when he had restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, his mother said, I have wholly dedicated the silver unto Jehovah out of my hand for my son, to make a graven image and molten image: now therefore will I restore it unto thee.
And they sent for Zebulun and Naphtali to come to Kedesh; and there went up ten thousand men after him; and Deborah went up with him.
Speak of me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whether I have taken a man's ox or a ass; if I have wronged any man, if I have oppressed any man, if I have taken a bribe at any man's hand, and I will despise it this day, and will restore it unto you.
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite;
and being found in a figure, as a man humbled himself, being obedient even unto death, and that the death of the dead should be crucified.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out, and came in before them.
And he went up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take her for me as wife.
And the people refused to hear the voice of Samuel, and said, Nay; but a king is over us.
And the first slaughter, which was the first of the sons of Jonathan, and of his armor, was twenty and twenty men, as it were in the field of the field.
Wherefore, my beloved, ( as ye have always obeyed), not as in my presence only, but much more now in my absence, with fear and trembling, thy salvation.
and they were oppressed by them; and they made themselves dens and eat in the mountains, and strong hold to withstand.
And it came to pass, as she came, that she urged him to ask her father the field; and she sprang down from the ass. And Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou?
And he said unto him, We are passing over from Bethlehem in Judah to the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, where I came to Bethlehem in Judah; but now I go into the house of Jehovah, and no man took me in to lodge the night.
And the Philistines laid hold on him, and put out his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with chains of brass, and ground him in the stocks.
that he might be the Savior of all that come to God through him, because he is always alive to pray unto God for them.
And now are thou more better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? hath he fought with Israel? did he fight against them?
And David said unto the Philistines, Behold, come unto me with sword, and with spear, and with spears, and I will come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, which thou hast reproached.
And David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go unto the Carmelite; and salute him in my name.
And the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah; and the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days.
and they were stoned; and they were sanctified; and they were tempted, and were slain with the sword: and they went about in sheep 'skins, and in the goats' skins, and afflicted, and afflicted, and afflicted.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Mizpah, that I may pray unto Jehovah for you.
And the men of the guard answered Jonathan and his armor, and said, Come up to us, and we will shew thee. Jonathan said to his armourbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And when he had waited a long time, the word of God was fulfilled.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Pui, Meraiah, and Phinehas, were slain.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, The son-in-law of the sister of Serah, because he took his wife, and delivered her to his friend. And the Philistines came up, and had her, and her father's house.
And when the people came into the forest, behold, the honey fell, but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, and said unto David, Behold, thou and thy men shall go out with me to battle.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore will I not save you any more.
And they went out from thence to fight against Benjamin, and fought against the city.
who came not according to the law of the flesh, but according to the power of an endless life;
And thou shalt cry on that day because of thy king, whom thou hast chosen for thyself; but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And David laid these words in his heart, and was greatly afraid of the face of the king of Gath.
then let the Lord judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and uphold my cause, and keep me from falling into your hands.
And the children of Israel went out to the battle with Benjamin; and the children of Israel set themselves in array with them, and fought against Gibeah.
And these gold went out, which the Philistines had sent again, to trespass against Jehovah; for Ashdod, one; and Ashkelon, one; for Ashkelon, one; for Ekron.
And the Philistines said, I have fought against Israel this day: give me a man, that we may fight one another.
And of the sons of David, Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were both of them, his wives.
And the Philistines said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest unto me with a staff? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And she arose, and bowed himself to the ground, and said, Behold, thy handmaid is a handmaid to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
but with all foods, and drinking, and all kinds of things, which are lawful for the flesh unto repentance.
And it shall come to pass, that every man that is left of thy house shall come to him for a piece of silver, and for a cake of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests's office, that I may eat a piece of bread.
And now are thou nothing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he fight against Israel, or did he fight against them?
And he fell between her feet, and fell, and lay it; and he fell between her feet, and fell; and he fell, and fell there.
In all my prayers for you all, making my request with joy,
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did not let any of his words fall to the ground.
And now, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have asked for; and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
concerning whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to forced labor, and drove them out.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine had gone out of the womb, that his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Saul said unto his servants, Give me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
and Jehovah raised them up judges in their days, in their days, and heard the groaning of the afflicted, and delivered them from the slaughter of the oppressors.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the children of Israel fled before the Philistines; and they fell slain on mount Gilboa.
And David left his chariot in the hand of the guard, and ran into the camp, and came and saluted his brethren.
And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were again again unto Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and their border was Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And he had a chain of brass upon his head; and he wore a coat of mail; and the weight of the robe was five thousand shekels of brass.
And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines, and plundered their camp.
And it came to pass, when he had called the ark of God, that he fell from the place by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died; for the man was old, and heavy; and he had judged Israel forty years.
Do not forsake the assembling of ourselves, as the manner of some is; but exhort one another; and so much more, as ye see the day coming.
Neither did they shew kindness unto the house of Jerubbesheth, namely, as well as for all the goodness which he had shewn Israel.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem all these words; and their heart turned after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods, which I made, and ye go away; and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And Sisera fled to the tent of Jabath, and the wife of Heber the Kenites, because there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor, and the house of Heber the Kenites.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight against Israel, and said unto David, Know certainly that thou shalt go out with me in the camp, thou and thy men.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served Baal, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook Jehovah, and did not serve him.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass through thy land to our land.
And her father said, I thought that thou hadst utterly hated her: therefore I gave her to thy companion: is not her younger sister better than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was very afraid of the king of Gath.
So Israel put men in ambush round about the city, to make a surprise upon it.
And the waters of the Gileadites were over Israel six years: and he died, and was buried in his city Gilead.
And he had two wives, the name of one Hananiah, and the name of the second Phanuel, and Penuel, and the children were barren.
But in these are a remembrance of sins every year.
Behold, if it go up by the way of his border to Beth Shemesh, he hath caused this great evil to come upon us: but if not, then we will know his hand hath not smitten us; it was by chance that this was done to us.
And all the trees say unto the thorns, Come thou, reign over us.
And she vowed a vow, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt see the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but give unto thine handmaid a man, then will I give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall not be a razor upon his head.
Therefore even as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day if ye will hear his voice,
And therefore he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
And forthwith he blew the trumpet in mount Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him, and he went before.
And God rewarded the evil that Abimelech had done against his father, and slew his brethren seventy.
And unto which of the messengers said, Sit at my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
And it came to pass, on the fourth day, that they said unto the wife of Jonathan the son of Barachel, Buy up thy husband, and tell us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have thou invited us to spoil us?
And they went down, and fought against the Canaanite, who dwelt in the mountains, and in the south, and in the plain.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that declareth unto me, when my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse: and there is none of thee that is sorry for me, and that my son hath stirred up my servant as a lie against me, as at this day.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Jaakan, Because Israel took my land in his coming up out of Egypt, from the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan; and now, restore them in peace.
And Saul took for himself three thousand men of Israel, of whom he had reserved two thousand with him in Michmash, and in the mountain of Bethel, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: the remnant of the people he sent again to their tents.
I repented that I have made Saul king: for he hath forsaken me, and hath not executed my commandments. And Samuel was grieved, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but no man answered. And he took her upon the ass, and the man arose, and went to his place.
whose voice was the cause of the shaking of the earth; but now he hath sworn, saying, There shall be yet one shaking, not only of the earth, but of heaven.
Shall the possessors of Keilah shut me up into his hand? doth Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, say, I pray thee, to thy servant. And Jehovah saith, He shall come down.
Jehovah hath done for himself as he spake by me; and Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and gave it to thy neighbour, to David.
And as for the matter that thou, and I have spoken, behold, Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
And all the princes of the tower of Shechem heard, and went up to the house of God's temple.
And the children of Dan sent five men out of their number, mighty men of Zorah, and Eshtaol, to see the land, and to search for it; and they said unto them, Go, and search through the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to the house of Micah, where they made a halt for the night.
And it came to pass, when the fire went up to heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar: and man and his wife looked upon it, and fell upon their faces to the ground.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath destroyed the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy friend that is far above thee.
And he took him down, and there they were, and spread abroad upon the face of all the land, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the spoil that they had taken from the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Having therefore a great high priest, who passed through the heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
And David said unto him, Can thou bring me to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee to this company. And David sware unto him.
And David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a forest.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, even because we have forsaken our God, and also served the Baalim.
And all Israel was dead; and all Israel had mourned him; and they had buried him in Ramah, even in his own city: and Saul had put away the mediums and the soothsayers out of the land.
that your joy may be multiplied in Christ Jesus for my coming unto you.
He shall take thy flock, and ye shall be his servants.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand. And the people said, He is witness.
And Jonathan told David, saying, My father Saul seeketh to kill thee: now thou shalt take care: in the morning thou shalt abide in the secret place, and hide thyself.
He shall put forth the fire of fire, and escape the edge of the sword; and he shall be mighty in weakness; and he shall be mighty in battle, and he shall flee from the sword.
But now Christ is come unto the high priest of the good things of the world, which is greater and profitable, not made with hands, that should speak, not of this world;
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter Michal, whom she shall give thee for a wife, be to me for a son of valor, and fight the battles of Jehovah. And Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hearkened not unto my voice,
Because thou hast not done the word of Jehovah, and hast done not his wrath against Amalek, so hath Jehovah done unto you this day.
After the death of Joshua, the children of Israel enquired of Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us first against the Canaanite, to fight against them?
For consider him that endured the provocation of sinners, lest ye be weary and faint in your heart.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give me bread to the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I pursue after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And it shall come to pass, after that thou shalt come to the mountain of God, where the garrison of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp, and a flute, and a flute, and a harp before them; and they shall prophesy:
And Saul commanded the people, and numbered them as lambs, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand of the children of Judah.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Give me the portion which I commanded thee to keep.
For we have had the fathers of our flesh, chastising, and fear; shall we not much rather be subject to the Father of the spirits, and live?
For because of the work of Christ he came nigh unto death, in order that he might make himself ready for your sakes to serve me.
But in the time he thinketh not to be of joy, but of sorrow; but afterwards bringeth forth peace of righteousness to those that do it.
Is it not at the wheat harvest? I cry unto Jehovah, and he giveth rain and rain; and know ye, and see that your evil is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, to ask for thee a king.
For the beginning also was the law of God, and the righteousness of the world.
And Samuel stayed in the place where he was, not till the time came for opening the doors of the house of God in the morning; and fear kept him from giving forth a account of his vision.
And the Spirit of Jehovah went out from thence, and the spirit of Jehovah troubled him.
And Jonathan took off the robe that he was wearing, and gave it to David, with his attire, and with his sword, and his bow, and his girdle.
And it displeased Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And she called the child, saying, The glory is gone out of Israel; for the ark of God was taken, and her father in law, and her husband.
Why do thou harden thy heart as Egypt and Pharaoh hardened their heart? did not he, after he was smitten, then let them go, and they went.
For thou knowest that even long ago, when he desireth the blessing of his inheritance, he was turned away, though he would earnestly ask and weep, because the former was not changed.
And he took it down to his hands, and went on, and ate; and he went to his father, and unto his mother, and gave them, and they eat; and he told them not that of the lion he took down the honey.
Let our lord command, and thy servants, that are before thee, shall seek a man skilful in the harp, that when the evil spirit of Jehovah is upon thee, he may play with his hand, and thou mayest bear it more.
so also Christ also was offered to the sins of many; and the second time he shall appear without sin to them that hope for him.
And the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and destroyed in Israel on that day two and twenty thousand men, to the earth.
And he fell down at her feet, and fell, and lay; and at her feet he fell, and fell; and where he fell, there he fell down dead.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom thou didst smite in the valley of Elah, behold, it is hid in a garment behind the ephod, if thou shalt take it to thyself, and take it; for there is none other save it in this. And David said, There is none like it, give it to me.
And she said, Let thy servant find favour in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat; and the countenance of her was no more troubled.
And he had forty sons, and thirty sons, and thirty asses: and he judged Israel eight years.
So David departed from thence, and took himself to Adullam; and his brethren and all his father's people heard of it, and went down to him there.
And Abigail the wife of Ishmael was unto his companion, whom he had made for his friend.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, every one to his field, and his fair part, and his axe, and his iron.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to set him in the midst of the camp of the children of Dan in the midst of Zorah, and in the midst of the camp.
And he said, They were my brethren, the children of my mother: As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst delivered them alive, I would not kill thee.
And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt depart from thence, and go further, and come to the oak of Elabor, there shall meet thee three men going up to Bethel, one bearing three kids, and three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
But I will raise up for myself a faithful priest; and he shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my soul: and I will build him a house for ever, and he shall walk continually before my anointed one for ever.
And he brought him into his house, and gave him provender provender; and they washed their feet, and ate and drank.
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavens, and unto the assembly of many thousands of angels;
And they slew the bullock, and brought the child to him.
Of whom we have much to say, that it is hard to make clear, because ye are slow of hearing.
God, who, in the old and in divers things, spake in times past to the fathers by the prophets,
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David: but Jonathan the son of Saul rejoiced greatly in David.
And the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And when Saul enquired of Jehovah, Jehovah answered him not by dreams, nor by the Urim, nor by the prophets.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, and said, What is the noise of this great cry in the camp of the Hebrews? And they see that the ark of Jehovah came in unto the camp.
For though he were a son, yet learned he obeyed by the things which he suffered;
And thou hast forgotten the consolation, which speaketh unto you, saying, My son, forget not the chastening of Jehovah; neither be thou wearied while thou art reproved by him.
and he sware by him that said unto him, The Lord sware, and will not repent, thou a priest, even to the age, according to the order of Melchizedek.
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Jonathan, that he may mock us; and they called for Jonathan the son of the prison; and he made them to mock; and they set him between the pillars.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten before us as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, that we may draw them out of the city into the highways.
which stood only in meats and drinking, and divers ings, and divers ings, laid on them till the time of repentance.
and let not thy lovingkindness be cut off from my house; for Jehovah hath sent destruction upon all David's enemies, and cut them off from the face of the earth.
And David humbled his men by words, and did not let them rise up against Saul; and Saul rose up from the cave, and went on the way.
And he that was not reckoned by genealogy of them, receiving the tithe from Abraham, and having the promises that he had promised,
And Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand; and he went about his business before the people.
And Samuel said, Hath the Lord delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as when he heareth the voice of Jehovah? Behold, he that feareth is better than sacrifice, and regardeth rather than the fat of rams.
and of perfect men is the strength of strength; for because of the use of the use are the senses exercised, to the understanding both of good and evil.
And they said, A possession of a man escaped to Benjamin, and a tribe is not blotted out from Israel:
For if we sin, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins.
For this day I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
For I know that this will turn to me for salvation by your prayer, and by the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah, for ye have pitied my cause.
And Jehovah visited Hananiah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel grew before Jehovah.
Wherefore also Jesus, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, having suffered without the gate:
always always always in prayer of mine for all my petitions,
Whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, whose heart is fixed upon the things of the earth.
And they let the Philistines see the two of them; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they have taken cover.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon, the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And Saul heard that David was made known, and the men that were with him, and Saul dwelt in Gibeah, under the oak in Ramah, and his spear in his hand, and all his servants standing by him.
And the children of Israel rose up, and went up to Beth-el, and asked God, saying, Who shall go up for us to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah first.
And when the children of Israel in the valley, and the other side of the Jordan, saw that the army of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they came out of their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and took them for themselves.
And the people came into the camp; and the elders of Israel said, Why hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? let us bring the ark of Jehovah out of Shiloh, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies.
Remember them that are in bonds, as if ye were bound with them; and they that labor as though ye were in the body.
but Christ was faithful as a son in his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence, and the hope of our glory.
In the same manner God, because he would give more to the heirs of the promise of the promise of his promise,
But in them there is a remembrance of sins every year.
And David dwelt with him in Gath, he and his men, every one with his house, and David and his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who will tell me, if thy father answer thee roughly?
Wherefore I will not destroy them from before thy face, that thou mayest have enemies, and their gods shall be thy ruin.
And he said, This shall be the way of the king that shall reign over you: he shall take your sons, and appoint them as his servants, and his chariots, and his horsemen; and they shall run before his chariots.
And they told Saul that the people had sinned against Jehovah, eating with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll here unto me now a great stone.
And there was a man from thence, and said, Whose father? So it was for a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For we are well with fear of falling into the hands of the living God.
Jehovah, in thy going forth out of Seir, in thy stepping out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, the heavens also dropped, and thick clouds dropped water.
And Moab said, Behold, they come down out of the midst of the land, and one band is coming by the oak of the seers.
And it came to pass on the second day, on the second day of the new moon, that the place of David was desolate; and he said unto Jonathan his son, Why did the son of Jesse come neither yesterday nor day unto the feast?
And all the tribes of Israel came forward, and the tribe of Benjamin was chosen.
And she took hold of them, and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the Philistines are upon thee, and there were a lie in the chamber; and he brake them from his arms as a thread.
And David remained in the wilderness, and in the cities, and in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him continually; but God gave him not into his hand.
But I beseech you to do this, that I may be returned unto you shortly.
And Saul feared David exceedingly, and hated him day by day.
And Samuel spake all these words of the Lord unto the people that seek a king.
And the people were numbered, and, behold, there was not a man of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
And Abimelech was recompensed by God for the evil that he had done unto his father, and slew seventy brethren.
And the king said unto her, Fear not; for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods going up out of the earth.
And the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah; and the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel heard, and were afraid of the Philistines.
Brethren, it is clear unto me that I come not to that knowledge; but one thing I do, that I should go the things which are past, and tell the things which are before,
And the five men that went to search through the land, went in, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest was by the door, with the six hundred men of valor.
At that time, when it was laid down in his place, behold, his eyes were dim, and he could not see.
And we took ten men of a hundred, of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred thousand of a thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand, to take provision for the people at Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly which it hath done in Israel.
And Saul was very wroth, and this spake not unto him: and he said, They have delivered David to glory, and to me for ten thousands: what more is there for him but the kingdom?
And he said unto him, Lord, how shall I save Israel? Behold, my house is the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And it came to pass, that thou didst pass from thence, and went to the oak of Tabor, and found thee there three men going up to Bethel, one bearing three young goats, and one bearing three loaves of bread, and one bearing a bottle of wine.
Behold, an old man came out of his work out of the field at eventide: now the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamin.
So they passed by the Jebusites, and went on their way; and the sun went down upon them, at Gibeah, which is in the tribe of Benjamin.
Yea, and more also do God also to the enemies of David, if I leave of all that is in the morning light any male.
For in finding fault with them he saith, Behold, days come, saith Jehovah, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
So then, my beloved, even as ye have obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my sight, labour with fear and trembling.
And Saul, with Jonathan his son, and the people that were with them, lived in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the tents of the Philistines were at Michmash.
For he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah wrought a great deliverance for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice: wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without cause?
And David again prayed again to Jehovah; and Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
And the men of the city said to Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die; for he hath torn down the altar of Baal, and cut down the Asherah that was beside it.
And Phinehas his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, conceived; and she heard the words of the ark of God, that her father-in-law and her husband died: and she bowed down, and bare, for her pangs were turned upon her.
And it came to pass, when he had written the ark of God, that he fell from his place by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died; for he was an old man, and heavy, and he had judged Israel forty years.
And Saul said, Let them cast the lot between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was chosen.
Now therefore, if thou hast dealt faithfully and righteously in that thou hast made Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with baal and his house, and hast done unto him according to the account of his hands,
Therefore let the hands that are hanged be lifted up, and let the weak knees be strengthened.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah with thee, mighty one of valour.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel; and they took possession of the city of palm-trees.
And Deborah dwelt under the palm of the palm tree between Ramah and Bethel, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And the man of the house went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly: seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
And the elders of Gilead said unto them, Behold, we have turned back unto thee; and thou hast gone with us, and fought against the children of Ammon; and thou art to us for head, to all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And he said unto them, I beseech thee, I beseech thee, let every man give me the earrings which he hath taken: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
And it came to pass, when they had finished eating and drinking at Shiloh; and behold, the priest sat upon his throne by the posts of Jehovah's house.
And Saul yet was the more afraid of David; and Saul was the enemy of David continually.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels: Thou hast crowned him with glory and majesty, And hast set him over the works of thy hands.
The violence of the fire is upon the edge of the sword, And they have escaped the edge of the sword; They have made strong men in battle, And they have turned to flight the nations.
But if thou canst not tell it, ye shall give me thirty coats, and the other two coats; and they say unto him, Set forth a riddle, that we may hear it.
And Abimelech told David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, when thou didst come forth out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens also dropped; yea, the clouds poured forth water.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before thee, and gave you their land.
Remember not thy handmaid as nought; but because of the hardness of my heart and my provocation have I spoken all this.
According to all the works that they have done from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt even unto this day, when they forsake me, and serve other gods, so they do also to thee.
And Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, and said unto him, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
Then the song came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Is not David hid with us in the palaces of the forest, in the hill of the Mighty One, in the south of the wilderness?
And the children of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the children of Israel set the battle in array against them at Gibeah.
And he went in, and prepared a young goat, and unleavened cakes of fine flour; and the flesh he put in a basket, and put it in a vessel, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and brought it out.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; for he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works are very good.
and serve the sanctuary, and the holy place, which Jehovah hath pitched, not man.
And the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian, came before Jehovah.
And it came to pass, when the seventh day came, they spake unto the wife of Jonathan the wife, and persuaded him to tell thee the interpretation of the interpretation: but if thou wilt not do it, we will burn thee, and thy father's house: have thou called us to the wedding, to strip us off?
and the God of peace, who brought up out of the dead the great shepherd of the flock, in the blood of an everlasting covenant, our Lord Jesus,
At the sound of the stamping of the hoofs of the Chaldeans, The instruments of their horses are heard.
By faith the harlot did not perish with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
And the children of Dan went away: and when Micaiah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned to his house.
And all the people cut down every one his branch, and went after Abimelech, and set up at the high place, and burned by them the high place with fire; and all the men of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, And let none of his words fall to the ground.
so that, my beloved, as ye always obey, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, with fear and trembling your own salvation.
Therefore let us offer to God a sacrifice of praise continually unto God, That is, the fruit of lips that confess his name.
And Abimelech shewed David that Saul had slain the priests of Jehovah.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish the son of Jakeh, the son of Meshullam, the son of Michri, the son of Berechiah, the son of a young man, mighty and strong.
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take, I pray thee, for thy brethren, this ephah of salt, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp unto thy brethren.
Are they not all serving spirits, sent to serve them, who shall receive the inheritance of salvation?
And when he had come into his house, he took a knife, and cut up his concubine, and divided her, and divided her, and sent her through all the borders of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and destroyed the children of Israel that day twenty thousand men.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go forth into the field; and they went out both of them into the field.
And Saul was very wroth, and it displeased him, and said, They have sought unto David ten thousands; and to me have they called a thousand; what can he have more but the kingdom?
O ye princes of Israel, come, ye that bare yourselves among the peoples: Praise ye Jehovah.
And he humbled himself, and was obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross.
And the Philistines went and pitched their tents in Judah round about.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and went, and two men with him; and they came to the woman by night; and he said, I pray thee, O God, by the spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall call unto thee.
in that it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your heart as in the provocation;
But when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
having the same contention which thou sawest in me, and now thou hast heard.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote the Carmelite, and he died.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Let me not tell thee what Jehovah hath said unto me yesternight. And he said unto him, Speak.
And at the time of her death they said unto her, Fear not, for thou hast borne a son. But she answered not, nor gave ear.
And the woman came in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
And David took of her hands from her hands; and he said unto her, Return to thy house in peace: behold, I have heard thy voice, and I have taken thy oblation.
And the battle prevailed against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly grieved by reason of the archers.
And Elon the Netophathite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And after him was Abdon the son of Dodo, the Pirathonite, a Pirathonite.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath done this great victory in Israel? Far be it from it: as Jehovah liveth, not a hair from his head shall fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people of the army saved Jonathan, and he died not.
And Jehovah said unto the king, Behold, the people that are with thee, that are with thee, shall be with thee for Midian, lest Israel magnify themselves against me, saying, My hand hath given me salvation.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she departed, she and her companions, and mourned her virginity upon the mountains.
And the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, saying,
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the stronghold of En Gedi.
Then came the Spirit of Jehovah upon them, and passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah, and from Mizpah, and passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And ye shall go out from thence, and go to the oak of Tabor; and there shall meet thee three men going up to God, to Bethel, one bearing three kids, and another bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
And Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what pleaseth thee, tarry until thou hast weaned him; but Jehovah shall establish his word. And the woman abode, and gave her the nurse, until she was weaned.
And Saul said, God do so, and also more; for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; and they came in as locusts for multitude, both they and their camels, and they came into the land to destroy it.
And out of Ephraim he destroyed them into the hand of Amalek, and after him out of Benjamin unto thy people, O Amalek: out of Machir came down princes, and out of Zebulun, who led the host to battle.
Jehovah hath delivered into thy bands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Ahimaaz: what have I done as thou hast done unto thee? And when he had said this, their spirit was pacified, wherewith they rebelled against him.
And David was in a very great craft: for the people had stoned him, for the souls of all the people were bitter, every one over his sons and his daughters: but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
And the Hebrews, who had been with the Philistines for some time, and had gone up with them to their tents, turned round unto them that were with Saul and Jonathan.
And he said unto Jether his eldest son, Arise, and slay them. But the lad took not his sword, and feared, because he was yet a child.
Now I have heard that thou hast sheepshearers; and thy shepherds were with us, and we did not oppress them; and there was none of them missing, all the days that they were in Carmel.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Why are thou weeping? and why hast thou not eaten? and why is thy heart afflicted? am I not better to thee than ten sons?
And this will we do, if God suffer.
And all the trees of the forest said unto the thorn-bush, Come thou, reign over us.
And Saul saw that he was very wise, and he began to take heed of him.
Moreover, God forbid that I should not sin against the Lord, to pray for you; but I will teach you the good and the right way:
And Elkanah went to Ramah unto his house; and the child served Jehovah, the presence of Heli the priest.
For they have received again their dead by resurrection; but others were tormented, not receiving remission, that they might gain a better resurrection.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron, and it came to pass, as the ark of God came unto Ekron, that the Ekron cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay us and our people.
For this day Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee, and I will take away thy head from thee, and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines to this day, to the fowl of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; and all the earth shall know that there is a God in Israel.
And if I say unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee, go, for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
but we are not cast up to destruction, but of faith to save soul.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast put me in a dry land, now give me springs of water. So Caleb gave her the upper spring, and the lower spring.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took it, and slew the inhabitants thereof, and destroyed it, so that he sowed salt therein.
Be not led away with divers and strange, for it is good that the heart be established with grace, not with meats, which hath not attained to those that walk in them.
Against whom hath the king of Israel come forth? and whom wilt thou pursue? a dead dog?
And he had thirty sons that rode upon thirty asses, and they had thirty cities, which are called Jair, unto this day, which is in the land of Gilead.
And it came to pass, that there was not a living man, nor a woman alive with him to Gath, that they might bring an account of what was done in the land of the Philistines, saying, Thus saith David, Thus hath David done; and so hath he done continually in the land of the Philistines.
and he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and drink not wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean: for the lad shall be a Nazarite of God, until the day of his death.
And the children of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou dealt against us, that thou didst not call us to battle with Midian? And they rebuked him roughly.
And the name of his first-born was Joel: and the name of the second was Abijah, and the judges in Beersheba.
And when Saul went to inquire unto Jehovah, Jehovah gave him no answer by a dream, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost: and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, and go to seek the asses.
And they rose up early; and when the morning came up, Samuel called unto Saul on the roof, saying, Arise, and I will send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out, he and Samuel, not.
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit upon my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?
They fight from the heavens; The stars of their paths fight with Sisera.
And it came to pass, as he talked with them, that the man of war, the Philistines of Gath, came out of the midst of the Philistines, and said the same words, as David heard.
which we have, as a mark of the soul, perfect and faithful, and entering into that within the veil,
then shalt thou go down before me unto Gilgal, where I will come unto thee, for the offering of burnt offerings and peace offerings; and tarry there seven days, until I come unto thee, and declare unto thee what thou hast to do.
And Shammah the son of Barachel called unto Jehovah, and said, Oh, my Lord Jehovah, remember me: I pray thee, give me strength this one time, O God, that I may render to the Philistines the vengeance of my eye.
And Memucan the Gileadite, a mighty man, and a mighty man, the son of a harlot, and his father was Gilead.
For the priesthood is written, that the interpretation also is made of the law.
And the six hundred men prepared with their weapons of war, which were of the children of Dan, by the entering of the gate.
And Asher did not destroy the inhabitants of Sodom, and the inhabitants of Sidon, and the inhabitants of Halah, and Achzib, and Rehob, and Rehob, and Rehob.
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah: for men abhorred the offering of Jehovah.
And the kine went straight in the way, on the way to Bethshemesh; they went, going and forth, and did not turn aside right or left; and the princes of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this high place, and take the second bullock, and offer up a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah that thou shalt cut down.
And it came to pass at the end of ten days, that Jehovah smote the Carmelite, and he died.
And Jehovah called again the third time, and rose up, and came to him, and said, Here am I; for thou hast called me. And she knew that Jehovah had called the child.
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore hast thou conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, and hast given him bread and a sword, and hast consulted the Lord for him, that he should rise up against me, and make a traitor unto this day.
And they took counsel, and said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is on the north side of the city of Bethel, and on the east side of the way, from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of the city.
But Saul, and the people that were with him, and the fat of the flock, and the fat of the cattle, and the fat calves, and the lambs, and all that was good, and all that was good, and that they should not utterly destroy them; but all that was abominable and abominable, they utterly destroyed.
And she vowed a vow, and said, Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt see the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but give unto thy handmaid a man, then will I give him to Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall not be a razor upon his head.
and be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
And thy daughters he shall make perfume, and his daughters with spices, and with studs of myrrh.
