And Jonathan said to David, What do you say? I will do it for you.
Zebah and Zalmunna said, Get up, and put on us; for as is the man, so is his power. So he got up and put to death all sorts of silver and destruction; and he took away the ornaments of their camels.
And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog, that you come to me with a rod? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And Saul said, Say to David, The king has no payment for a price, but for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be given to the king's haters. And he thought he would make David fall by the Philistines.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from you: for I do not see that the evil of my father has come on you, and I do not give it to you.
And the Lord was with Judah, driving out the people of the hill-country, for he was not able to send out the people of the valley because they had breastplates of iron.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out to them and said to them, No, my brothers, do not do so evil; for this man has come into my house; do not do this foolish thing.
And after him, the town of Elon, the chief of the family of Zebulun, was judging Israel for ten years.
And the roll went up from the town, and there was a pillar of smoke, and Benjamin went back; and the space of the town went up to heaven.
In your hand God gave the chiefs of Midian to Oreb and to Zeeb; and what have I to do with you? and their spirit was turned away from him in his words.
And there has been given to destruction, and to cut off, and to cut up, and to cut up, and to cut up arms.
But God took the hollow place in a square, and water came from there; and when he had overcome it, his spirit came back to life: and the name of it was named Sirion, which is in a meeting-place, to this day.
And it came to pass, that it was impossible to make them new again to change their hearts from their sins: for they were a sign to themselves the Son of God, and put him to shame.
And they said to him, No, but we will put you in flight and give you into their hands; but certainly certainly we will not put you to death. And they put him in two bands and took him up from the rock.
And Adam said to his wife, We are dead, for we have seen God.
And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man who is coming up? for he has come up against Israel, and he will come up against him, and the king will give him great wealth and give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And Michal took the images and put on the bed, and put on her chains, and covered the linen with a robe.
And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Let him go and see the great strength of his strength, and let us take care of him, so that we may be cruel to him, and let us give you eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And Saul made an oath to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord is living, there will be no punishment for you.
Because of the teaching of the spirits, and of the putting of their hands, and of the coming from the dead, and of eternal punishment;
Keep in mind those who are in chains with them, and those who are in trouble as you are in the body.
And the servants of Saul said to him, This is what David said.
Who by faith overcame kingdoms, who did righteousness, and gave an oath, stopped the mouths of lions,
But the man had no rest in that night; but he got up and went to the place of Jebus ( that is, Jerusalem); and with him were two asses, and his wife was with him.
So we say, The Lord is my help; I will not be put to fear: what can man do to me?
The children of Naphtali did not send out the people of Beth-shemesh, or the people of Beth-horon; but he was living among the Canaanites, and the people of the land: but the people of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-shemesh were under forced work.
And David went out from the hands of the armed place, and went in flight to his brothers.
And now, if you have any thing at hand, if it were but five cakes, give me, or whatever you may see.
I give praise to my God for all memory of you,
And David's men said to him, See the day of which the Lord said to you, See, I will give your hater into your hands, so that you may do to him as it seems good to you. And David got up and cut off the robe of Saul in secret.
And let all this meeting be certain that the Lord is not responsible for the sword and the spear, and that the Lord has given you into our hands.
Let the gentle man be known among all men, for the Lord is near.
Now the son of Joash went on against Baal, and made his living-place in his house.
And Abimelech, living in the land of Judah, was living in the land of Shechem, and his brothers were not safe in Shechem.
For the chiefs of Israel were in the hands of Israel; and the people took their offering, giving praise to the Lord.
And when Samuel had news all the words of the people, he said to them,
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, building a town, naming it Luz, which is the name of it to this day.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of the king of Aram, for eight years.
And when he had endured, he took the oath.
The bow of the strong men is broken, and the feeble are clothed with strength.
And they said, There is a feast of the Lord from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the road which goes up from Beth-el to Shechem and on the south.
And Jonathan got up from the table, and did not take food on the second day of the new moon, because he was troubled by David, because his father had put him to shame.
And as he turned his back away from Samuel, God changed his heart, and all these things were done in that day.
For forty years I was troubled by this generation, and I said, They are ever wandering in heart, and they have no knowledge of my ways;
And when he had gone back after a time to take her, he went away to see the dead bodies of the lion; and they were like bees, like bees, in the land of the lion and of the honey.
And Saul said, Take the ark of the Lord, for there is the ark of God there with the children of Israel.
And when the men came to Saul's house, they said these words in the hearing of the people; and all the people lifted up their voices and were weeping.
Go after peace with all men, and be holy, without any man to see the Lord.
So take your stand again, and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes.
For this cause the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of Cushan in the land of Cushan: and the children of Israel were in trouble for eight years.
And she said, The Philistines are on you, and overcome you. And when he got up from his sleep, he said, I will go out as at once, and I will go out quickly; but he did not see that the Lord had gone away from him.
And he went from there to Peniel, and he was talking with them; and the men of Penuel answered him, as the men of Succoth answered.
And Jonathan said to David, Whatever you desire I will do for you.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, building a town, naming it Luz, which is to this day.
For the law has given effect to nothing, and the number of a good hope by which we come near to God.
And all the people were cutting down every man his branches, and they went after Abimelech, and put it on them, and burned it with fire on them: and all the men of Shechem were dead, about a thousand men and women.
And the men came to Saul at Gibeah, and said these words in the ears of the people; and all the people lifted up their voice and were crying.
But still, to be in the flesh, there is more need for you.
Why, then, will you make your heart hard as the Egyptians and Pharaoh's heart hard? and when he had worked with them, they would not let them go, and they went away.
And Jonathan said to him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be turned away, for your seat will be wasted.
And the fig-tree said to them, Is it possible for me to take away the fruit of my money and the fruit of my fruit to go on the trees?
Keep in mind those who are in chains with them, and those who are cruel, as you are in the body.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men were on the other side of the mountain; and David was overcome with fear from the face of Saul; and Saul and his men were round with David and his men round about to take them.
And the greater part of the brothers in the Lord, having faith in my chains, are greater and without fear to say the word.
Let your love be for love.
And others were responsible for kings and body-covers, and even for chains and bands;
And that night the Lord said to him, Up, go down into the tent-circle, for I have given them into your hands.
The words of the old have come out from the evil of the evil-doer, but my hand will not be on you.
And at the end of two months, when she came back to her father, she gave her the oath which he had made, and she had no knowledge of man. And it became a sign in Israel.
But there is a great fear of what is right, and the wrath of the fire will be cut off.
And Jonathan went up on his hands and on his feet, and his arms with him; and some came down before him, and some of his men's men were put to death as he went after him.
For it is like the sin of false gods, and the desires of false gods, and the images of images: because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, he has sent you away from being king.
And I have made clear to him that I am judging his house for ever, because of the sin which he has seen; for his sons are making themselves foolish, and he has not stopped them.
And the sons of Benjamin did so, and took wives for themselves, after their number, of those who were dancing, whom they went back to their heritage, building up the towns and living in them.
By faith Rahab the harlot has not been put to death with the man who has no faith, but has taken the men of men in peace.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a young man and a great man; and there was no man from the children of Israel more than he was, and tall than all the people.
And Samuel said to Saul, You have done a foolish thing, and have not kept the orders of the Lord your God which he gave you; and if you had not done so, the Lord would have made your kingdom rule over Israel for ever.
As it is right for me to make clear to you all things, because you have been in your hearts, and in my chains, and in the undertaking of the good news, you are all in my grace.
And the Lord went away from these nations, and they were not able to take them out quickly, and gave them over to Joshua.
Then the Spirit of the Lord came on laughing, and went over Gilead and Manasseh, and went over Mizpah, and from Mizpah to the children of Ammon.
And early in the morning they got up in worship before the Lord, turning back and came to their house in Ramah, and Elkanah had knowledge of the wife of his wife, and the Lord gave her mind.
By faith Rahab the harlot has not been put to death with those who do not have faith, but has taken the men of men with peace.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he let them go into the hands of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
For he who has these things has been given to another tribe, and there is no man on the altar.
And David went over to the other side, and took his place on the top of a mountain far away, and there was a great space between them.
I have knowledge of all things to be made low, and I have knowledge how to be increased. In everything and in all things I have been made ready to be full and to be in need of food, to give up and to undergo.
And Samuel became old, and the Lord was with him, and did not let any of his words go to the earth.
But my good man will be living by faith; and if he is turned back, my soul will not have pleasure in him.
And Benjamin came back at that time; and they gave them the women whom they had kept safe from the women of Jabesh-gilead; but they had no more than enough for them.
And they put up for themselves the images of Micah, which he had made, and all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And he said to him, Go with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten shekels of silver for ten shekels of silver, and for clothing and for food. So the Levites went in.
Now when Saul had gone back from the Philistines, they said to him, See, David is in the waste land of En-gedi.
And another went on to Beth-horon, and another group went on the way to the valley of Zeboiim, toward the waste land.
And the priest gave him the holy thing, for there was no bread there, but the bread of the Presence, which was turned away from the face of the Lord to put burning bread in the day of his being taken away.
And there were seven hundred men, seven hundred men, all of them, all of them out of their hands, and they did not go up.
And he said to them, Am I to give up my wine and my wine and men, and be honoured among the trees?
Out of Ephraim there was a root of them against Amalek; and after you, Benjamin, among your people; out of Machir came down rulers, and from Zebulun those who had the writer's pen.
And Saul took the spear, for he said, I will send David to the wall with it. And David went back from before him twice.
But if you are not able to give it to me, give me thirty linen robes and thirty changes of clothing. And they said to him, Give us a sense, that we may give ear to it.
And David made an oath again and again, saying, Your father has knowledge that I have seen grace in your eyes; and he has said, Jonathan will not see this, or he will be sad: but truly the Lord is living, and your soul is life, but there is a way between me and death.
And when they saw him, they took thirty men, and they were with him.
And the man of yours, whom I will not cut off from my altar, will give food to your eyes and sorrow to your heart, and all the increase of your house will be put to death in the flower of their days.
Now there was no man in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines had taken up their cause, so that the Hebrew might be given swords or spears.
For God is not evil to keep your work and the love which you have made clear to his name, in which you have been for the saints, and still to do the work.
And I took my bread and my water and my flesh, which I put to death for my wool, and gave to men whom I had not seen from where they were.
So the sin of the young men was very great in the eyes of the Lord, because they did the offerings of the Lord with shame.
And the Lord will give effect to every one his righteousness and his faith: for the Lord has given you into my hand this day; but I was not willing to put out my hand against the king of the Lord.
Saying, Truly I will give you a blessing, and I will give you great numbers of increase.
So Saul took him away from his face, and made him captain of a thousand; so he went in and out before the army.
And when the Philistines saw David, he took care of him and made him low: for he was a young man, red and beautiful.
And the Philistines took up their tents for war, and took their tents in tents of Judah, and put up their tents between Geba and Azekah.
And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Happy are you of the Lord: I have come true the word of the Lord.
For he says to him, You are a priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And when I saw that you would not keep me safe, I put my life in my hand and went over against the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into my hands: why then have you come up to me today?
So then, my dear friends, as you have been done as you did, not as before, but now much more in my need, working out your salvation with fear and trembling.
And he said to his servant, Come, let us go near to one of these places; and we will be living in Gibeah or in Ramah.
And laughing sent to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have you to do with me, that you have come against me to fight against my land?
Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
And Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went to his house in Geba.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to the voice of the people in everything they say to you: for they have not turned away from you, but they have turned away from me, so that I may not be king over them.
And the son of Joash went up from the war to the king of the army of David, from the army of the Philistines.
And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart be feeble because of him, for he will go and fight against the Philistines.
And Samuel took a bottle of oil and put it on his head, and gave him a kiss, and said, See, the Lord has made you ruler over his heritage, and you will give his people out of the hands of their haters who are round about them. And this will be a sign to you, for God has made you ruler over you.
See, here is my daughter, a woman, and his woman's wife: I will send them out now and make them low, and do with them what seems good to you: but to this man is no wrong.
And the woman quickly went running and said to her husband, See, the man who came to me on that day has come to me.
For he has said, See, days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new agreement with the children of Israel and the children of Judah,
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and came in before them.
And they went before the men of Israel into the waste land, and the war went after them; and those who went out of the town were causing destruction among them.
But he took a sin-offering for ever, seated on the right hand of God.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from you: for if I had a desire to come on you, I would not say anything to you.
And he went to Gaza, and saw a woman a harlot, and went in to her.
So when David came back from striking the Philistines, Abner took him and took him before Saul, and the head of the Philistines was in his hand.
And when Saul was told that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, The Lord has given him into my hands, and he is shut up, and has come into a town with doors and rods.
And these were the father of one man, and he was dead as dead, as the stars of heaven, and as the sand by the sea.
Even as it is said, Levi, who took the tenth part, gave the tenth part in Abraham;
Then God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and Shechem was untrue to Abimelech, saying,
And Moses said, I am shaking with fear.
And he took ten men of his servants, as the Lord had said to him, and it came to pass because he was overcome by fear of the family of his father and the men of the town, to do by day till the night.
Now, brothers, I desire you to be certain that the things which have come to me have been turned to the place of the good news.
And I said, See, I am coming to do your will, O God: he takes away the first, so that he may make his position strong.
And Israel sent representatives to the king of Edom, saying, Let me go through your land; but the king of Edom would not give ear. And they sent to the king of Moab, and he would not. And Israel was living in Kadesh.
If a man is to sin against another, God may have pity on himself: but if a man has sin against the Lord, who will make prayer for him? and they did not give ear to the voice of their father, for the Lord would put them to death.
Then David got up and came to the place where Saul had put up his tents; and David saw the place where Saul was sleeping, and Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of his army. Now Saul was lying in the tents, and the army was round about him.
For see him who has undergone the evil news of sinners against himself, so that you may not get tired and get tired in your souls.
How much more will the blood of Christ be given to God by the eternal Spirit, which has been made without a mark to God, to make your heart clean from death to the living God?
And the Lord was seen in Shiloh, for the Lord had given himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord.
And the men of Shechem were waiting for him in the top of the mountains; and they took away all the way by them, and said to Abimelech,
And Jonathan went up on his hands and his feet with his arms, and they went down before Jonathan and put them to death after him.
Even as Zebah and Zalmunna said, Up and fall on us; for as the man is, so is his strength; and as for Zebah and Zalmunna, and as for Zebah and Zalmunna, and put away the ornaments of their camels.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she gave a loud voice, and the woman said to Saul, Why have you tricked me? for you are Saul.
For I have knowledge that this will come to me for salvation, through your prayers, and by the Spirit of Christ Jesus.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And he gave them back to his mother, and said to him, I have made this holy thing holy to the Lord, that my son may take it in my hand, and make a pictured image and a metal image, so that I may give it to you.
And when the young man came to the place where Jonathan had sent their arrows, Jonathan said, Is not the arrow on your side?
And they got up every man in his place round about the tent-circle; and all the army went in flight and went in flight.
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the town of living God, in Jerusalem, and to thousands of angels;
And he said to him, See now, there is a man of God in this town, and a man is honoured, and all that he says comes true: let us go there, if he will give us the way to go.
For our God is a burning fire.
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go away, go down from the middle of Amalek, or I will send destruction on you with it, and you will be kind to all the children of Israel, when they went up out of Egypt. And the Kenites went away from Amalek.
And he took the chiefs of the town, and thorns and thorns in the waste land, cutting them with the same, and cut off the men of Succoth.
And Samuel was a child to the Lord, having a linen ephod.
And when she was still praying before the Lord,
And he sent for all his war-carriages, and every hundred war-carriages of iron, and all the army who were with him from Kue, at the valley of Kishon.
For three days the asses which are wasted to you this day, do not put your heart to them, for they have been seen, and to whom all the desire of Israel? is it not to you and to all your father's house?
But in those offerings there is a memory of sin, a year for a year.
For he was not to death, but God gave grace to him, but not with him only, but also with me, that I might have sorrow on sorrow.
And the three sons of Jesse went and went after Saul to the fight; and the name of his three sons was Eliab the oldest, and his third was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.
And he said to them, Come after me; for the Lord has given the Moabites the Moabites into your hands. And they went after him, and took the Jordan over the Moabites, and did not let anyone go over.
And the men of Israel, who were on the other side of the valley, and the other on the other side of Jordan, had gone away; and Saul and his sons were dead, and they gave up the towns and went in flight, and the Philistines came in, and they were living in them.
But I will not take away a man from you from my altar, but that your eyes may be feeble and your soul be wasted, and a great part of your house will be put to death when they come to man's property.
But Asher was living among the Canaanites, and the people of the land: for they did not send them out.
And David gave up all that Amalek had taken; and David gave up his two wives.
And who will give ear to you in this question? For as his heritage goes down to the fight, so will his part be with the goods; they will be equally equally.
And the people of Gilead said to one another, What man is he who will make war with the children of Ammon? he will be head over all the people of Gilead.
And I have faith in the Lord, so that I will come to you quickly.
And when they had gone on the way they had begun, and when he saw that they were stronger than he, they went back to his house.
And Saul gave birth to her daughter Michal, the wife of the daughter of David, to be the son of Laish, the daughter of Gallim.
For the rain of the rain which comes frequently on it, and gives birth to the grass of the earth for his sakes, is a blessing from God.
And David was the youngest; and the three sons went after him.
But Abigail, the wife of Ishmael, was given to his friend, who was his friend.
And they went away from the face of his brothers, and were living in the land of Samaria; and there were foolish men in the land of laughing, and they went out with him.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Take the ark of God here. For the ark of God was with the children of Israel at that time.
And Saul was in fear of David, because the Lord was with him and had gone away from Saul.
For you came not near to the mountain, and was burned with fire and dark and dark and storm,
And they put up their tents against them, cutting off the increase of the earth, till you come to Gaza, without food or sheep or ox or ass.
For I have given you a great life, of whom I have said much to you, but now you are talking about even as those who are against the cross of Christ.
But some of them said, How can this man give us salvation? So they gave him no reward, but he kept quiet.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they gave worship to the Baals.
And they gave no thought to the Lord their God, who kept them safe from all their haters round about:
Now as for Zebah and as Zalmunna, they were in flight, and their armies were with them, about fifteen thousand men, from all the army of the east; and those who were going to war were one hundred and twenty thousand men who came with swords.
And the men sent representatives into all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to see Midian, and take up the waters before them, the Jordan: and all the children of Ephraim gave a loud cry and took the waters before them and the Jordan as far as Beth-.
And when he had given his name the ark of God, he went down from his place, and his neck was broken, and his neck was broken, and he was an old man, and he came to the end of forty years.
And the children of Dan sent five of them out of their family, Zorah, and Zorah, and Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said to them, Go and see the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and put the night there.
And he went into his house and took the knife and put on his wife, cutting her in pieces, and sent her to all the land of Israel.
And he said to God, Let not your wrath be burning against me, and I will say only this time; let me make my prayer only this time with the wool, and let there be no heat on the wool, and let all the earth be wet with dew.
And there was a man of Zorah, of the family of the children of Dan, and his name was named by name, the wife of his wife, without birth;
And the priest said to David, I have no bread, but there is holy bread: if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
So that you may have joy with me and make your blessing on me.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the body of Jesus Christ.
Because you have not given ear to the voice of the Lord, or have done his wrath on Amalek, the Lord has done this to you this day.
And Saul said to Michal, Why have you tricked me, and sent away my hater? And Michal said to Saul, Let me go; why am I to put you to death?
And the olive-tree said to them, Should I go out of my wealth with which they give glory to God and man, and go to the place of the trees?
If you have been in the same way, O Lord, if you have done what is right and right with you, you will be glad in Abimelech, and he will be glad in you.
For if the first had been without rest, a place was not made for a second.
And the fighting was cruel against Saul, and the archers came with him; and he was greatly troubled by the archers.
And Adam said to his wife, We will certainly be put to death, because we have seen God.
And the Levites will be living with the man, and the young man is to him as one of his sons.
And he will take care of your fields and your vine-gardens and your olive-trees; he will take care of the best and give to his servants.
And Saul was in fear of David, because the Lord was with him and had gone away from Saul.
And now, get up early in the morning, and the servants of your lord who have come with you, when you get up early in the morning and have light, go.
For our property is in heaven, from where we are waiting for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
God has made clear to us some better thing for us, so that they may not be made without us.
And I say to you, brothers and sisters, let the word of your comfort be undergo: for I have been writing a letter to you in small words.
And the children of Israel went out to fight with Benjamin; and the men of Israel put themselves in array against them at Gibeah.
And over the mercy seat of the glory which is covered with the cover of the glory, so that it may not be made clear to us.
And they went up to the town; and when they came into the town, Samuel came out to them to go up to the high place.
And with the blood of all things, all things are made clean by the law; and there is no forgiveness for the forgiveness of salvation.
And the Lord sent you on a journey and said, Go and put destruction on the sinners of the Amalekites and make war against them till they are wasted.
See now the king whom you have chosen, and whom you have asked for. See, the Lord has made a king over you.
And the Philistines were waiting on the mountain on one side; and Israel was waiting on the mountain on the other side, and the valley was between them.
And they overcame Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, strong and able men, and there was no one who went in flight.
And David's men said to him, See, we are troubled here in Judah: how much more then, if we go to Keilah against the army of the Philistines?
And the men did so; and they took two milk cows and put them on the wagon, and shut up their calves at the house.
And some of the kings and the rulers of the kingdom were judged, and in chains and in chains;
So they went away there to go in to the night at Gibeah; and he went in and took him in the public square of the town, for no one took them into his house.
And the five chiefs of the Philistines saw and went back to Ekron on the same day.
And the Philistines came together and got up and put up their tents in Dothan; and Saul got up all Israel and put up their tents in Gilboa.
And among all these men, seven hundred took men, put their right hand on their right hand, with a stone at the hair, and he did not go in error.
And it came to pass, when Nahash the Ammonite came up, attacking the town of Jabesh-gilead, and all the men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Make a agreement with us, and we will be your servant.
And Samuel said to Saul, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, so that you may have food with me to day, and I will let you go in the morning, and say to you everything in your hearts.
And he is the witness of the new agreement, which is by his death, for the salvation of those who have done wrong, which were under the first law, so that those who are named may have the word of eternal heritage.
But in them there is a memory of sin every year.
And now, my lord, the life of the Lord, and your soul is living, seeing the Lord has kept you from coming with blood, and from the hand of your hands; now let your haters and those who are evil to my lord be as the sinner.
And he said to the men of Peniel, When I come again in peace, I will be broken down.
Do not go after the foolish things which are not good or give up; for they are false.
And Saul got up and went down to the waste land of Ziph, with three thousand chosen men of Israel, looking for David in the waste land of Ziph.
Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the east came together; and they went over and put up their tents in the valley of Jezreel.
And the men of Israel got up and went after the Philistines, and went after the Philistines till you came into the valley, and to the towns of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines went down to the town of Gath, to Gath and to Ekron.
For he had said in a certain place about the seventh, and God had rest on the seventh day from all his works.
The Philistines, which the Philistines had taken from Israel, were turned back to Israel from Ekron to Gath; and Israel took back its limit from the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Eber, the wife of Heber, took a band of silver in her hand, and took a band of silver in her hand, and went to his houses secretly, and he went into his houses and went into the earth: for he was in a deep sleep, and he came to life.
And Jair came to death and was put to death in the earth.
And he said to the men of Peniel, When I come again in peace, I will be broken down.
And the people came back to the tent-circle, and the responsible men of Israel said, Why has the Lord put us to death today before the Philistines? let us take the ark of the agreement of the Lord to us from Shiloh, so that it may come into our midst and give us salvation from the hand of our haters.
And the sons of Benjamin saw that they were overcome, and the children of Israel gave land to Benjamin, because they had put their hope in the secret which they had put against Gibeah.
And he said to her, Put yourself in the door of the Tent, and it will be, when anyone comes and asks you, Is there any man here? that you may say, No.
And the Lord has done for himself as he had said by me; and the Lord has put the kingdom out of your hand, and gave it to your neighbour David.
And Melchizedek, the king of Salem, the priest of God Most High, went to Abraham, turning back from the power of the kings and gave him blessing.
And it was said to her, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel give you your request, which you have asked of him.
And put the seat of the glory over it, covering the cover over which we are not to say.
And Abdon, the son of Dodai, the Pirathonite, was put to death in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
But now he has come to the end of the grace which has been given to the grace which has been given to the effect.
And from his body seventy sons, for he had much wives.
And the men before they went in flight against them, turning their faces against them, and the children of Benjamin turned their backs.
And as he was talking with them, there was a great man, the Philistines of Gath, whose name was Goliath, whose name was Goliath; and he said the same words, and David had news.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have done wrong, because I have done the orders of the Lord and your words; for I have feared the people, and I have given ear to their voice.
And when they had taken it, the hand of the Lord was against the town with a very great destruction: and he overcame the men of the town, small and great, and they went out into their secret parts.
And it came to pass on the second day after the new moon came, that the place of David's place was wasted, and Saul said to his son Jonathan, Why does not the son of Jesse come to the flesh or to the day?
And his sons did not go in his ways; but they gave money to money, taking a reward of money, and made evil decisions.
And an angel of the Lord came to her, saying, You are without children and without children: but you will give birth to a son.
And the people made answer to him, saying, So will it be done to the man who put him to death.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all your children here? And he said, There is still the youngest. See, he keeps the sheep. And he said to Jesse, Send and get him; for we will not be seated till he comes here.
Even the first meeting of the House, and the decisions of the earth,
And all the training of the present is not to be of joy, but of sorrow; but later the blessing of righteousness is to those who are living in it, and it will give effect.
And it will come to pass, that every man who is left in your house will come and bow to him for a bit of silver and a bit of bread, and will say, Put me to one of the priests' orders, so that I may take a bit of bread.
But you have done well that you have had in my trouble.
And Samuel said, Like the sword of your sword, so will your mother be without birth among women. And Samuel, the son of Samuel, was cutting down before the Lord in Gilgal.
And he went in to us, for he was a high priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And the children of Israel were sad for Benjamin their brother, saying, There is one tribe cut off from Israel today.
And he said, They were my brothers, the children of my mother: as the Lord lives, if you had kept them safe, I would not put you to death.
And Saul went down in his place on the earth, and was troubled because of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had no need of bread all day or night.
And Saul was waiting for David on that day.
And Abigail went quickly and went on a ass, and five women of her women who went after her; and she went after the men of David and became his wife.
And the Philistines were fighting against Israel; and the men of Israel had gone away from before the Philistines, and they were put to death on Mount Gilboa.
And the woman gave birth to a son, and gave him the name of the son of Shimea: and the child became, and the Lord gave him his blessing.
And I will send out three of the arrows at the side, and I will send for myself a mark.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Heli, the chief of the Levites, were put to death.
And the men of Israel said, Have you seen that this man has come up? he has come up to shame against Israel; and the man who has put him to death will come to him, and the king will give him great wealth and give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not be turned back with you, for you have turned away from the word of the Lord, and the Lord will send you away from being king over Israel.
In the morning the children of Israel got up and put up their tents at Gibeah.
But now they are looking for a good country, for it is a man of heaven. So God will not be shamed of them, to be called their God, for he has made ready a town for them.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are there all your children? And he said, There is still the youngest, and see, he keeps the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and get him; for we will not be seated till he come here.
Though men are come after you to go after you, and to search for your soul, the soul of my lord will be shut up in the bag of life with the Lord your God; and the souls of those who are against you will be put to flight, like out of a sling.
And on the fourth day they got up early in the morning, and he got up to go away: and the girl's father said to his daughter-in-law, Give your heart a bit of bread, and then go on your way.
And you have made clear to me this day how well you have done well with me: because the Lord has given me into your hand, and you have not put me to death.
And they sent representatives again to the king of the children of Ammon.
So they took away the strange gods from among them, worshipping the Lord, and no longer had the trouble of Israel.
And all the men of Israel got up from their places and put up their positions in Baal Tamar; and the secret men of Israel went in flight from their places, from the hill-country of Gibeah.
For this cause, holy brothers, are joined together in the heaven, and see Jesus, the Apostle and the high priest of our faith,
For they were not able to do what was said, If any beast is touching the mountain, it is to be stoned.
For by a greater word a word is given by men, and with them there is a time of trouble to all of them.
Then the Levite, the husband of the woman who was put to death, said, I came to the town of Benjamin, and I and my wife went to the night.
And Saul said, Give ear now, son of Ahitub. And he said, Here I am, my lord.
And the peace of God, which is greater than all wisdom, will keep your hearts and thoughts in Christ Jesus.
And these things have been made ready for the first House, and the priests go in doing the work.
And again, if they come into my rest,
Then David said, O Lord, the God of Israel, let your servant be certain that Saul is looking for a purpose to go to Keilah, to put destruction on the town for my name.
And it came about that when the Philistines got up and came near David, David quickly went in flight and went to the army to see the Philistines.
And Jonathan said good of David to Saul his father, and said to him, Let not the king be sinning against his servant, because he has not done evil against you, and because he has done well for you.
And Saul said to God, Will I go down after the Philistines? will you give them into the hands of Israel? But he gave him no answer that day.
Now Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, was a hundred and ten years old.
And the children of Ammon made war against Israel, and the chiefs of Gilead went to get out of the land of Tob.
And Naphtali did not send out the people of Beth-shemesh, or the people of Beth-shemesh; but he was living in the land of the Canaanites, and the people of the land: but the people of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-shemesh were under forced work.
And all the people went into the woods, and honey was on the earth.
And he gave orders to Eglon to Eglon; and it was very fat.
And God gave effect to the evil-doing of Abimelech, which he had done to his father, to death for seventy brothers.
Now the time was ready for the men of Israel, and they put up a great amount of smoke from the town.
For you have put all things under his feet: because of all things he has given up everything that was not under him; but now we do not see all things under him.
For we are the circumcision, worshipping God in the spirit, and have joy in Christ Jesus, and have no fear in the flesh.
And you will cry out in that day because of your king whom you have taken for yourselves, and the Lord will not give you an answer in that day.
And he took away the king of Amalek with the sword and overcame all the people with the sword.
And give these ten sticks to the captain of their thousand men, and see how your brothers go, and take their payment.
And he went back to Ramah, for his house was there; and there he made a decision against Israel; and there he made an altar to the Lord.
And David went after them, and he and four hundred men went after them; for two hundred men were waiting for them, so that they might not go over the river.
For this reason Jesus gave a good agreement to himself.
And he went up and said to his father and mother, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines, and now take her for me as wife.
And the Spirit of the Lord was named him as far as the town of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
And on the seventh day they said to the wife of the wife of the daughter of the Rechabites, Let your husband make clear to us the story, or we will be burned with fire and your father's house: have you given us a curse? is it not so?
And David said, What have I done now? I have a question.
It is not good that you have done. As the Lord is living, you are to be put to death, because you have not kept watch over your lord, the king of the Lord; and now see where the spear is, and the water of water which was at his head.
And Saul said, Send lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
See, I send the young men, go, get the arrows: if I say to the young men, See, the arrows on this side of you, take them away; then come to you for peace, and there is nothing: the Lord is living.
Do not be taken away with strange teachings; for it is good that the heart is made by grace, not food, but those who have been living in which have not been given to profit.
And I said, I will not send them out from before you, and they will be your haters, and their gods will be your destruction.
And now the Lord, the God of Israel, has taken away the Amorite out of before his people Israel, and take it for it.
The wise among her women will give an answer, and she will give an answer to herself.
And all the towns of the Philistines, in addition to the number of all the towns of the Philistines, all of them, walled towns and unwalled towns; and they took them to the great stone of Abel, which they put down the ark of the Lord on this day in the field of Joshua the Gittite.
And he said to him, This is nothing else, but the sword of the son of Jehoash, a man of Israel: for the Lord has given orders to Midian and all their tents into his hands.
The weight of the gold rings which he gave was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, and the chains and the silver and the purple robes which were on the kings of Midian, and the bands of their camels.
And David put these words in his heart, and was greatly troubled by the face of the king of Gath.
And he had a head-dress of brass on his head; and he was clothed with a robe of iron, and the weight of his robe was five thousand shekels of brass;
And Jacob, when he was put to death, gave his blessing, blessing every one of the sons of Joseph, and put his name on the top of his rod.
And when their hearts were full of joy, they said, Send for Jonathan, and let us make sport of us. And they sent for Jonathan, the son of Saul, who was in prison, and they put him in position between the pillars.
And when he had said this, he came to the high place.
And on that night the Lord said to him, Go down into the tent-circle, for I have given it into your hands.
Where, when he came to us, he became a high priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give me bread to the people who are after me, for they are tired; I have gone after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
Now when the people of Jabesh-gilead had news of all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
And Deborah said, Up! for this is the day when the Lord has given you to Sisera in your hands: is it not the Lord who has gone out before you? So the king went down from Mount Tabor and ten thousand men after him.
Let the destruction of the fire be cut off, and let the sword get away from the edge of the sword, and be strong with strength, and be strong in war, driving out the army of the nations.
Zebulun is a people whose lives are turned to death, and for Naphtali, on the high places of the field.
For they were not able to give up what was ordered: and if a beast touched the mountain, it is to be stoned.
For my father made war for you and put his life in place for you, and gave you salvation from the hand of Midian;
Now there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel. The man was very rich, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats. Now the wool of his sheep was taken in Carmel.
And Samuel was resting till the morning, opening the doors of the house of the Lord; and Samuel was honoured to give birth to the vision.
And when the Lord has done to my lord all the good things he has said about you, and has made you ruler over Israel,
And we will take ten men of one hundred from all the tribes of Israel, one hundred of one thousand, and one thousand of ten thousand, to give payment to the people when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin for all the sins of Israel.
But in these things there is a division in mind of sin.
And take the ark of the Lord and put it on the wagon, and put the gold jewels, which you give to him for a sin-offering, in a walled place by its side; and send it away so that it may go.
And he said to them, I will give you a riddle: if you are able to make clear to me in the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty curtains and thirty changes of clothing:
& lt; To the chief music-maker. Of David. & gt; Every prayer of my life is ever in all my requests for you;
For the women have been given back to life again by the dead; but others were troubled, not taking free, so that they might be a better again to life.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, Give him up to me in the bed, so that I may put him to death.
And the Lord will give Israel up with you into the hands of the Philistines; and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me: the Lord will give the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
And he had thirty sons and daughters, and gave them to their husbands, and took wives for his sons, and took them into his house, and he judged Israel seven years.
And David said to the priest and said to him, Truly, women have been kept from us about these three days, when I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the more is holy, and the more, because this day is holy in the vessels.
For you have need of troubles, so that, having done the will of God, you may take the word.
Why do you make your hearts hard as the Egyptians and Pharaoh's heart hard? and when he had done great things among them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
And all the men of Israel who had taken secret themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they had news that the Philistines had gone away, they went after them in the war.
And when his servants saw that Saul was dead, he was put to death in the same way with his sword.
And the priest gave him holy bread, for there was no bread there but the bread which was used before the Lord, to put bread on the day when it was taken away.
He who keeps the law of Moses will have no pity on the word of two or three witnesses.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before the Lord in Gilgal, and there they gave offerings of peace-offerings before the Lord; and Saul and all the men of Israel were glad.
And the man went out of the town, out of the valley of Judah, to go to a living-place where he was living, and came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to do his work.
For everyone who takes away milk is a wise man, because he is a child.
And when the judge was dead, they were turned back and made themselves unclean more than their fathers, and they went after other gods to give them worship, and to give worship to them: they did not give up their evil ways or from their hearts.
By the word of life, so that I may be a glory to me in Christ's day, that I have not been in vain, or have been working for nothing.
And Israel was put to shame because of Midian; and the children of Israel were weeping to the Lord.
See now how great this man was, to whom even Abraham, the father, gave a tenth of the best things.
But the boy had no knowledge of anything; only Jonathan and David had knowledge of the thing.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Why are you weeping? why do you not have food? Why is your heart troubled? am I not better to you than ten sons?
And when their hearts were full of joy, they said, Send for Jonathan, and let us make sport of us. And they sent for Jonathan, the daughter of the prison, and he made them sport, and they put him between the pillars.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel said to the Lord, Who went up for us to the Canaanite, at the first time to make war against it?
For you have had pity on me in my chains, and have taken away the wasting of your goods, having knowledge in yourselves that you have been in heaven a better and a long time.
So Joseph went up to Beth-el, and the Lord was with them.
And as for you, and I say, See, the Lord is between me and you for ever.
Then the Lord gave birth to Samuel, and he got up and came to him, and said, Here I am, for you have been called for me. And he said, I have not said, My son, go back to sleep.
And they put up their tents against them, cutting off the fruit of the land, till you come to Gaza; and there was no food in Israel or sheep or ox or ass.
And they took their bones and put them in the earth in Jabesh in Jabesh, and they went without food for seven days.
But if you are full of fear to go down, go and go with your servant down to the tent-circle.
And they were only in food and drinking, and from all sorts of secret arts and of the flesh, till the time of their sins.
And after him was Shelomoth, the son of Shelomoth, who overcame the Philistines for six hundred men with the oxen, and he gave Israel salvation.
And to Hormah, and to those who were in war, and to those who were in war,
I have a virgin, and this man has a woman, and I will send them out to you, and you may be shamed and full of desire; but I say to you, Do not do this evil against the man.
Give comfort to one another day, while it is given to day, or any of you be made free through the deceit of sin.
But now they have a desire for a good country, that is, a man of heaven, and why God is not shamed of them, to be named their God, for he has made ready for them a town.
And he said to them, I will not have authority over you, and my son will not rule over you; the Lord will be ruler over you.
And the children of Benjamin went out from Gibeah, and put their destruction on the land of Israel that day twenty-two thousand men.
And her father said, Truly I have said that you have hated her. So I gave her to you. Is not her younger sister better than she? take her, and take her.
I have knowledge of all things to be put to shame, and I have knowledge how to do all things; I have been trained in all things, to be full and to be without need, to give up and to be poor.
And Samuel was judged by Samuel all the days of his life.
And she said, No, my lord, I am a woman of sorrow: I have not been drinking wine or strong drink, but I have given my soul before the Lord.
But he would not, and said, I will not take food; but his servants, with the woman, made him forced. And he got up from the earth and took his seat on the bed.
And Saul overcame Amalek from Paddan-aram, till you come to the town of Sur, which is over Egypt.
So then, my dear loved ones, as you have done, not as in my face only, but now much more in my need, working out your salvation with fear and trembling;
And Abishai said to David, God has given your enemy into your hands this day; and now let me put the spear on him, even to the earth, and I will not do it again.
And the men of the army said to Jonathan and to his young men, Come up to us, and we will give you a thing. And Jonathan said to his servants, Let us go after me, for the Lord has given them into the hands of Israel.
And when you say, I will take away your flesh with the thorns and in the waste places of the waste land, when the Lord will give them all to Zebah and Zalmunna.
And the spirit of the Lord came on him, and he was angry with him as he would have broken a young goat: but he had nothing in his hand: but he did not give his father or mother what he had done.
And they went down from the high place into the town, and went with Saul on the top of the house; and he put a bed for Saul on the top of the house, and he was sleeping.
And David came to the king at Nob, to Abimelech the priest, and Ahimelech, shaking at the meeting of David, said to him, Why are you alone, and no one with you?
And David took his goods in the hands of the armed men, and went running to the army, and went and went with his brothers.
And there was a man of Zorah, of the family of the children of Dan, who was named by name, and his wife was unable to give birth.
And the Philistines came and went near to David, and the man who had the body-covers went before him.
And Abraham, when he was tested by faith, gave him Isaac; and he who had given the word to his only son,
Who had no need, like the high priests, to give offerings every day, first for his sins, and for the sins of the people: for he did this to all, when he made himself ready.
And David said to the king, If I have found grace in your eyes, let them give me a place in one of the towns where I am living there: why should your servant be living in the king's town?
And Samuel went back after Saul, and Saul gave worship to the Lord.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house; and the child was waiting before the Lord in the presence of Heli the priest.
And not by the blood of the goats or of the cattle, but by the blood of his blood, into the most holy place, when it was made for eternal life.
Why, then, says the Holy Spirit, today if you will give ear to his voice,
And the Lord said to the people of Israel, The people who are with you are too much for me to give the Midianites into their hands, or Israel, for fear against me, says, My hand has made me safe.
And the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
And when he came near Jordan, he and the three hundred men who were with him were tired and went after them.
So now, take your place and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes.
And we are looking for every one of you to make clear to the full hope of the hope to the end;
And being made upright, he became the God of eternal salvation to all those who keep him.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and they put themselves in position at Gibeah as before.
And God gives them witness, signs and wonders, and all sorts of signs and things of the Holy Spirit, by his will.
They have gone round with the children of Benjamin; they have gone after them; they have made them safe till the day of Gibeah at the east.
And he will take the tenth part of your flock, and you will be his servants.
But the bowmen went after him; and they went after him and took him, cutting off his hands and his great toes.
For to the angels he has not put in subjection the world to come, about which we say.
And Samuel did what the Lord had said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the responsible men of the town came to him, shaking with fear, saying, Why do you have trouble?
And some of them were put to shame and troubled, and to those who were on this way.
Brethren, be imitators of me, and put a mark on them that you may be as you have for an example.
By faith we have knowledge of the things which are made of the world by the word of God, that what has been seen did not come from what is seen.
And the men of the town got up early in the morning, and the altar of Baal was broken down, and the high place was cut down, and the second ox was burned on the altar which is building.
And he said to him, Lord, how will I give salvation to Israel? See, my family is only the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And the responsible men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Give us seven days, so that we may send representatives to all the country of Israel, and then if there is no one to keep us safe, we will come out to you.
She may not take any of the fruit of the vine, or the drink of wine or strong drink, or take anything unclean, and do all that I have given her orders.
And all this people will see that the Lord will not give effect to the sword and the spear: for it is his war, and he will give you into our hands.
And Samuel said, How am I to go? for Saul will have news of it, and he will put me to death. And the Lord said, Take a young ox with you, and say, I have come to give an offering to the Lord.
And on the morning the people went out into the field, and said to Abimelech,
So that you may be glad and full of joy with me.
But when Samuel was angry, they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel made prayer to the Lord.
And David said, As the Lord is living, the Lord will put him to death, or his day will come to death; or he will go down to the sword and be cut off.
And they said to him, Be quiet, put your hand on your mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest: is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a family and a family in Israel?
And Jonathan got up from the table in great wrath, and did not have food on the second day after the new moon, because he was very angry for David, for his father had put him to shame.
And he said to them, This is what will be done to him, and he will be my servant, and I will be his priest.
Because of my hope and hope, so that in nothing I will be put to shame, but in all hope, as ever, so that the Christ may be made great in my body, by life, or by death.
And his wife's wife was weeping before him, and said, You have hate me and have no love for me: you have given up a riddle to the children of my people, and have not given it to it. And he said to her, See, I have given it to my father or mother, and I will give it to you.
For you have need of faith, so that after you have done the will of God, you may get what was said.
But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not see his face, or on the height of his body, because I have put him to shame, because I have not seen as man sees: for man is looking at the face, but the Lord is looking at the heart.
Have you not taken the heritage of the god of Chemosh, which is given to you to take your heritage? So the man whom the Lord our God has taken away from before us will we take their property.
And I went out after him, and overcame him, and took it out of his mouth; and when he came up against me, I took him by his chin and put him to death and put him to death.
And to Jesus the copy of the new testament and the blood of blood than of Abel.
And the Philistines had news that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah, and the chiefs of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel had news of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
In that year, in the land of the Amorites, in the land of the Amorite, in the land of the Amorites, they were crushed and crushed.
Now Samuel had no knowledge of the Lord or the word of the Lord.
For as the Lord lives, who gives salvation to Israel, even though it is Jonathan my son, he will certainly be put to death; but there was no man among all the people who gave him an answer.
And a man of God came to him, and said to him, This is what the Lord has said: I have been made clear to the house of your father in Egypt, before Pharaoh's house:
But the end of love, because I have knowledge of the preaching of the good news.
And they went on from there to Mount Ephraim and came to the house of Micah.
And the Ammonite, the Ammonite, said to them, I will take care of you, so that I may put out all your right eyes and put it to shame on all Israel.
And David and all the people who were with him lifted up their voice and were weeping, till there was no longer a cry.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver which were taken away from you, and said it in my hearing, see, the silver is with me, and I took it. And his mother said, May the Lord bless my son.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take food among them till the morning light, and let us not go away from a man. And they said, Do whatever seems good to you. Then the priest said, Let us go near here to God.
Now when it was old, he had news of all that his sons had done to all Israel, and how they went to sleep with the women at the door of the Tent of meeting.
And the rest of the Philistines went out from the tents of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath, whose name was Gath; and his height was six cubits and a span.
And the angel of the Lord came to the woman and said to her, See now, you are unable to give birth to a child, but you will give birth to a son.
For I have said to him that I will be a judge to his house for ever, because of the sin which he had seen; for his sons were cursed, and he did not keep them safe.
Then the woman came in the morning, and came down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light.
And they went and took him away from there, and he put himself in position among the people, and he was higher than all the people from his arms and over.
And he said to them, Let me now give you a riddle, if you make clear to me a sign in the seven days of the feast, and I will give you thirty robes and thirty robes of clothing.
And Samuel was judged by Samuel all the days of his life.
And they went through the waste land and went through the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came to the other side of Moab; and they put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon; but they came not in the direction of Moab, for the Arnon was the limits of Moab.
And Enoch was a witness to Enoch, that he might not see death, but was not seen, because God had put him in writing, because he had the witness which was pleasing to God.
And all the people sent and said to the children of Benjamin in the rock of Rimmon,
O Lord, when you went down from Seir, when you went out from the land of Edom, the earth was moved, the heavens dropped, and the cloud dropped water.
And Abijah went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnath-serah of the daughters of the Philistines.
Give my love to every one who is holy in Christ Jesus, and send your brothers with me.
And he took the people down to the water: and the Lord said to him, Let all the men of the water with his tongue be turned away by himself, and let all those who are bent down on his knees drink.
For he put his life in his hand, and put to death the Philistines, and the Lord made a great salvation for all Israel: you saw it and was glad: why then will you sin against those who have done wrong, to put David to death without cause?
And the spirit of the Lord was with him in the tents of Dan, between Seraiah and En-gedi.
And the three divisions sounded the horns, and the vessels were broken, and the lights were on their left hands, and the horns were in their right hands with the sound of their hands; and they were crying out, The sword of the Lord and of the rod.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and he gave them over to the Philistines for forty years.
How much more will the blood of Christ be given to God by the eternal Spirit, to make himself free from the dead works of death to the living God?
That we may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and make war for us.
And the children of Israel had no memory of the Lord their God, who had given them salvation from all their haters on every side.
For then they would have no effect, because the fear of the worshippers was to be without sin any longer.
And they gave ear to what the Philistines had done to Saul.
And when Saul was talking to the priest, the noise which was in the army of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said to the priest, Let loose your hand.
So they went over and went away, and the sun went down on them at Gibeah, which is for Benjamin.
And when he had made an end of offering, he sent away the people who gave the tax.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech in the land of Gilead, saying, See, the son of Amasa, and his brothers, are coming to Shechem, and they are coming against you.
And the Philistines came out in the morning and evening and gave them forty days.
But he, because of his eternal life, has the priesthood not changed.
And he said to them, If you are acting like this, I will take punishment on you, and after that I will come to an end.
After Abimelech, the son of Puah, the son of Dodai, a man of Issachar, came up to the help of Israel, in the hill-country of Ephraim.
Now the Lord had made clear to the ear of Samuel the day before Saul came, saying,
And he gave orders to the Lord for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And it was said to Saul, See, David is at Ramah in the town of Ramah.
And Samuel said, As your sword is taken away, so will your mother be taken away among women. And Samuel was cruel to the Lord at Gilgal.
But Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and images and made holy men holy, who became his priest.
And the people said to him, This is what is done to the man who puts him to death.
And when David had news of the dead of the dead, he said, Praise be to the Lord, who has given the cause of my shame from the hand of the sinner, and has kept back his servant from evil; and the evil-doing of the sinner has the Lord put back on his head. And David sent and said of Abigail to her,
Then Saul said to his servants, Come to me a woman who has a spirit of spirit, so that I may go to her and get an account of her. And his servants said to him, See, there is a woman who has a spirit at En-dor.
And the chiefs of the Philistines were angry with him; and the chiefs of the Philistines said to him, Let this man go back to his place which you have given him, and let him not go down with us to the fight, or let him go down with us in the fight against us: for with which purpose he makes an end of himself to his master? Is it not with the heads of these men?
Then he gave birth to Samuel and said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
And the weight of the gold rings which he made for a thousand seven hundred gold, in addition to the moon and the coloured robes and the purple robes which were on the kings of Midian, and in addition to the chains of their camels.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw a strong man or a man, he took him into his hands.
You have no delight in the burned offerings and offerings of sin.
And they turned away from the Lord, the God of their fathers, who took them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, of the gods of the peoples round about them, and gave worship to them: and they made the Lord angry.
And David said to his heart, Now I am wasting one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing for me better than that I go away safely to the land of the Philistines, and Saul has been put to flight from me in all the land of Israel, and I have escaped from his hand.
And David took all the flocks and herds which they were driving before them, and said, This is the destruction of David.
And Israel sent representatives to Sihon, king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon; and Israel said to him, Let us go through your land to my place.
And she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone for two months, so that I may go down on the mountains, weeping for my virgin, I and my friends.
For they were not responsible for what is given to them, saying, If a beast goes on the mountain, it is to be stoned, or with a arrow shot through.
But he took a sin-offering for ever, seated on the right hand of God.
And David said to him, Who are you, and where are you? And the young man said, I am an Egyptian, an Egyptian, a servant of an Amalekite, but my master has gone away from me for three days.
But you have said this day, turning away from your God, who gives you salvation from all your troubles and your troubles; and you say to him, No, but put a king over us. Now now, give yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands.
And the Lord sent you on a journey, saying, Go and put destruction on the sinners of the Amalekites, and make war against them till they are complete.
By faith Abraham, when he was named, to go out to a place where he was to be given an heritage; and he went out without knowledge where he went.
And the children of Benjamin went out of the town, and they saw their attackers running in flight, and went after them a long way, as they had done the first and the second day; and they went in flight by two roads, which went up to Beth-el and the other to Gibeah, and put to death thirty men.
But if I say to the boy, See, the arrows are greater than you: go on your way; for the Lord has sent you away.
And he took care of them, and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
And Sarah herself gave birth to a child, and she gave birth to a child when she was old, having faith in her faith.
And when he came to us, he made a high priest for ever, for ever as a sign of Malchijah.
And when Bela went to Gaza, she saw a woman, a harlot, and went to her.
And the children of Israel did not remember the Lord their God, who had given them salvation from the hand of their haters.
So then, our fathers, our flesh, have made sport of us, and we are put to shame: will we not have much more than the Father of the spirits, and have life?
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and said,
And all the people said to Samuel, Give prayer to the Lord your God for your servants, so that we may not be put to death: for we have given thought to all our sins, to make request for ourselves a king.
And Micah said, I am certain that the Lord will do me good, for I am a Levite to my priest.
Then the children of Israel, crying out to the Lord, said, We have done wrong against you: we have turned away from our God, and have given worship to the Baals.
And the Lord did for himself as he had said by my hand; and the Lord took the kingdom from your hand and gave it to your neighbour David.
And the son of Ebed-melech said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we may serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbaal, and his overseer, the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem? why should we give him his servant?
Be strong, and be like men, O Philistines, that you be not servants of the Hebrews, as they have been to you: make yourselves strong as men, and fight.
So David got up, he and his men, and put to death from the Philistines two hundred men; and David took their cords, and gave them to the king, so that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal, his daughter, to wife.
Be with me, do not be afraid; for he who is looking for my life is looking for your life: for with me you are safe.
But Jonathan was not hearing when his father gave orders to the people; and he put out the rod which was in his hand, and put it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were shining.
And I took my wife, and cut her into bits, and sent her through all the land of Israel, because they had done a shame and shame in Israel.
And Samuel said to the people, Come and let us go to Gilgal, and make the kingdom new again.
And Jabez came out to the town of Sisera, and she said to him, Come, my lord; let me go, and do not be troubled. So he went into her tent, and covered him with a covering.
And they gave news to David, saying, See, the Philistines are crushing the grain-floor and the grain-floor.
And God did so that night; only the wool was dry, and the dew was on all the earth.
Now when the ark of the agreement of the Lord came to the tent-circle, all Israel gave a loud cry, and the earth was moved.
For every house is made by others, but he who has made all things holy.
And the rest of the earth went after him, and they went after him and took him, cutting off his hands and toes,
By faith Isaac gave blessing to Jacob and Esau.
And now, go up by night, you and the people who are with you, and be waiting in the field;
And the Lord went again to the purpose of Moses, to Samuel, in Shiloh, by the word of the Lord.
Not that I have got up, or have been made without effect; but I am troubled, if so be that I may take hold of it for which I was in Christ Jesus.
And the people sent twelve thousand of the men of war, saying, Go, and let the people of Jabesh-gilead be put to death by the sword, even the women and children.
And they took their daughters as wives for themselves, and gave their daughters to their sons, and they went after their gods.
And if Israel has planted the seed of Midian, the Amalekites and the children of the east have come up against him.
And the people of Dan said to him, See, you say no more to us, or you will be angry with you with all your house.
And the wall of Jericho was falling down, and they were round about for seven days.
Now when Joshua sent the people away, every man went to his heritage to take the land.
And the man went away from the town, from Beth-lehem the town of Judah, to go to a living-place where he was living; and he went on his way to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And he will take your daughters for making perfume, and your daughters with haircloth.
Who was true to him who gave him orders, as Moses was in all his house.
Not that I have got up, or have been made complete; but I am troubled if it is so that I may take hold of it for which I have been taken by Christ Jesus.
And when they came there to the mountain, a group of prophets came to him, and the Spirit of God came on him, and he was talking with them.
Then God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and Shechem was untrue to Abimelech,
So then, my brothers, be glad in the Lord; for you are to say the same things to you, even though it is not wrong, but for you it is safe.
And the Lord put on to Sisera and all his war-carriages and with all his army, before the edge of the sword; and when Sisera got down from his chariot, he went in flight.
Then the chiefs of the Philistines went out; and when they went out, David was wiser than all the servants of Saul, and his name was very great.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and made war against all his haters, against Moab, against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he was troubled everywhere.
And Saul took him that day and let him go no longer to his father's house.
And laughing said to them, I and my people were in great trouble with the children of Ammon; and when I sent you, you have not kept me from their hands.
And she sent for her, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said to him, Has not the Lord, the God of Israel, said, Go and go to Mount Tabor and take with you ten thousand men of Naphtali and of Zebulun?
But if you are not able to give it to you, you are to give me thirty robes and the other robes; they say to him, Give out the sense that we may give ear to it.
And he took off his clothing, and said, Even before Samuel and all that night and all that night and all that night, he himself said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And they said, O Lord, the God of Israel, why has this been done in Israel, that there may be one tribe in Israel?
And the Spirit of the Lord came on the rod, and he blew the horn, and Abiezer was joined to him.
In that day I put my word to myself, all that I have said to his house, first and complete.
And make you complete in every good work, to do his pleasure in you, which is pleasing before him, through Jesus Christ, to whom the glory, for ever and ever.
Now the children of Zelophehad, the son of Hobab, the relation of Moses, had a time before the rest of the sons of Moses, the son of Hobab, the father of Moses, and had put up his tents in the valley of Ararat.
And get up early in the morning with your master's servants who are coming with you, and get up early in the morning, and when you have light, go away.
And she was seated under a palm-tree, named by her name, between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for all judgment.
But the olive-tree said to them, Should I go out of my wealth with which they give honour to God and man, and go to and fro over the trees?
But the other of love, knowing that I am put to the answer of the good news.
And now, as you have been living in my eyes by this day, so let my life be made long in the eyes of the Lord, and let him give me salvation from all trouble.
But Christ has come to the high priest of the good things to come, by the good and complete House which is not made with hand, which is not of this work.
And he said, See, I come to do your will, O God; he takes away the first, so that he may make the second.
And they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go back to its place, so that it may not be put to death or our people. For there was a great fear in the town, and the hand of God was very hard.
And laughing made a promise to the Lord, saying, If you will give the children of Ammon into my hand,
And this is what you are doing: every male and woman who has knowledge of a male, you are to give birth.
And he said, This will be the way of the king who will rule over you: he will take your sons and send them to him, for his war-carriages and his horsemen; and they will go running before his war-carriages.
Now then, let my lord the king give ear to the words of his servant: if it is the Lord who has made you come up against me, let him take an offering; but if it is the children of men, let them be cursed before the Lord: for they have sent me away from this day that I would not be joined to the heritage of the Lord, saying, Go to other gods.
And others were judged by those who were cruel and cruel, and even for chains and bands;
And when he was talking with them, the man whose name was Goliath, the Philistines, the Philistines, came up from the tents of the Philistines; and he said the same words, and David had news of them.
Now the sons of Heli were evil men, and they had no knowledge of the Lord.
And Jonathan said well about David his father, and said to him, May the king not sin against his servant David, because he has not done wrong against you, and because his work is great.
And how much more could have been done if the people had given food to this day from the goods of their haters which they had seen; for now the loss of the Philistines is not great.
And he took the people down to the water, and the Lord said to the rod, Every man who goes after the water with his tongue, like a dog, will you take by himself, and let every man go on his knees to drink.
As you go with me today, you will see Rachel's resting-place in the land of Benjamin, in the land of Benjamin, and they will say to you, The young asses you went to search for have been seen. And now your father is not looking for the young asses, and have put thought to you, saying, What am I to do for my son?
And when he came into his house, he took the knife and put on his wife, and took her, with her bones, and sent her into all the land of Israel.
For as for our daughters, we are not able to give them an oath or a curse, by which we said, Cursed be he who is to give Benjamin any of his daughters.
For this reason, as the Holy Spirit says, Today if you give ear to his voice,
And when Sisera came together all his war-carriages, one hundred war-carriages of iron, and all the people who were with him, from the distribution of the nations to the river of Kishon.
So that the copy of the things which are in heaven may be made clean with these things; but the things which are in heaven are better than these.
And if he was on the earth, he would not be a priest; and when others had come to give an offering by the law,
And the wife of Gilead gave birth to sons, and the sons of the wife got up and said to him, You have no part in the house of our father, for you are the son of another woman.
For he was ill with death, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him only, but also on me, so that I might have sorrow on sorrow.
And he sent representatives through all the tribe of Manasseh, and they came together after him; and he sent representatives to Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali; and they came up to them.
And the Lord said to the children of Israel, Have I not kept safe from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And David and his men went to Keilah and attacked the Philistines, and took their cattle and put them to death with a great slaughter. So David made the people of Keilah free.
See, the days are coming, that I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house, so that there may not be a man old in your house.
And they did not have the priests of Dagon, or any who went into the house of Dagon, crushing the doorway of Ashdod to this day.
By the faith of the faith which has been seen by the faith of God, because of the fear of God, made an ark of God for the salvation of his house, when he made the world free and the heritage of the righteousness which is in faith.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it and gave him his daughter to wife.
And Samuel gave him all the words, and did not keep anything from him. And he said, He is the Lord; he will do what is good in his eyes.
Then Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went out and took his place at the doorway of the town. Then Abimelech and all the people who were with him got up secretly.
And they were stoning, and they were put to death: they were tested by the blood of the sword, and they went about in the blood of sheep, in the skin of wool, and in need of skin, and in pain, and in cruel pain.
And of the children of Israel, at the side of the children of Benjamin, there were four hundred thousand ready for war, ready for war.
And the priest's order was before the people, that when every man was offering a meal offering, the servant's servant came, and the flesh was burning, with a hook of three teeth in his hand;
And having been seen in the form of a man, he made himself low, and gave himself to death, and death.
And her father said, I have thought that you have hated her; so I gave her to you. Is not her younger sister better than she? let her be yours for her.
And six hundred men were waiting before the door, with their arms.
And they were stoning with stones, they were put to death, they were put to death with the sword: they were wandering about in the skin of sheep and goats, and were poor and troubled and troubled.
And Samuel was judged by Samuel all the days of his life.
Why do you make your hearts hard as the Egyptians and Pharaoh's heart hard? when he had done great things among them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
And David said to him, To whom have you come? And where are you? And he said, I am a servant of Egypt, servant of an Amalekite, and my master went away from me, because three days of old I came to rest.
Let him be glad in the Lord with all joy, and take care of him.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, went in flight and were greatly troubled.
But all Israel and Judah were loving David: for he went out and went before them.
And Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and went to search for David and his men in front of the rocks of the field.
And I will give up for myself a holy priest, and will do according to what is in my heart and in my mind; and I will make him a safe place for him, and he will go before my holy oil.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and put up their tents against Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Make a agreement with us, and we will be your servant.
And he said to them, I and my people were fighting against the children of Ammon, and I sent you to help me, and you would not do it.
And the house was full of men and women, and all the chiefs of the Philistines, and on the roof about three thousand men and women, who were looking on the music of Jonathan.
And David said to him, But what have I done? and what have you seen in your servant from the day I came to you till this day, so that I might not go and fight against the haters of my lord the king?
God, who, in the waste times and in different ways, said in times past the fathers by the prophets,
And Deborah said, Up! for this is the day when the Lord has given you to Sisera in your hands: has not the Lord gone out before you? And when he went down from Mount Tabor and ten thousand men after him,
And take the ark of the Lord, and put it on the wagon, and the gold of gold, which you give to him as a sin-offering, put in the hole by its side, and send it away so that it may go.
Now see now the king whom you have chosen, and whom you have asked for; and, See, the Lord has put a king over you.
It is bad for us! who will give us salvation from the hand of these great gods? these are the gods who overcame the Egyptians with all sorts of diseases in the waste land.
And he said to them, What have I done with you? are not the grapes of Ephraim better than the grapes of Abiezer?
And the angel of the Lord said to him, Why are you questioning my name? It is so great.
And now, what is under your hand? give me five cakes of bread in my hand, or anything else.
And I have knowledge of how to be put to shame, and I have knowledge how to be increased. In everything and in all things I have knowledge of the secret, to be full and to be in need and to be in need and to be in need.
And Samuel said to him, The Lord has taken away the kingdom of Israel from you this day, and has given it to a neighbour of yours.
And he will take your fields and your vine-gardens and your olive-trees, and give them to his servants.
A man is better than the angels, and his heritage is greater than they.
Who is the glory of his glory, and the revelation of his purpose, to keep all things by the word of power, and when he had made sin for sins through him, he took his seat at the right hand of the king on high,
But those who had gone into the house of the young man went to take away the false image and the ephod and the metal image and the metal image, and the priest and the priest went before the door; and the six hundred men were waiting not far away.
And when David and his men came to the town, they saw that it was burned with fire, and their wives and sons and daughters had been taken prisoner.
But if you do not give ear to the voice of the Lord, but be turned against the orders of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you, as it was against your fathers.
Nothing without faith is pleasing to him: for he who comes to God will have faith in him, and he will be a reward to those who are looking for him.
The sons of David were Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were their wives.
And you will take them together like a robe, and they will be changed, and you will be the same, and your years will not be wasted.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are the young men come to an end? And he said, But now he has gone from the youngest; and, behold, he takes pleasure in himself among the flock. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and take him; for we are not turning back till his coming in here.
And at the time when she was given to David, the daughter of Saul was given to him, and she was given to him for his wife Sheba.
Let us see how to make one another angry with love and good works;
And the hand of the children of Israel was increased, and overcame Jabin, the king of Canaan, till they had given destruction to Jabin, king of Canaan.
And the men were very good to us, and did not put us to shame; and we had no desire for anything all the days we went up with them in the field.
And the people were numbered, and there was not a man of the people of Jabesh-gilead.
But the people took part of the goods, sheep and oxen, the chief of the devoted things, to make offerings to the Lord your God in Gilgal.
And they said, We will give freely to ourselves. And they put a robe and put in it every man the rings of his goods.
If you have done what is right and right for war and for his house today, be glad in Abimelech, and let him be glad in you.
And he said to David, You are more upright than I, because you have given me the good reward, but I have given you an evil reward.
And you will not only be able to make me see the mercy of the Lord, so that I may not be put to death.
And they came down from the high place to the town, and talking with Saul on the roof.
So that the teaching of the first law of Christ, let us be in effect to the limits of the faith, which is not the mark of the change of the change of the dead, and of faith to God.
So then, get up early in the morning, you and the servants of your lord who came with you; when you get up early in the morning, then go away.
And God gave effect to the evil which Abimelech had done against his father, to put death on his seventy brothers.
And the slope on the north was opposite Michmash, and the other on the south side opposite Geba.
Finally, brothers and sisters, whatever are the things which are true, whatever are the things which are pleasing, what are the things which are pleasing, what things are pleasing, what things are good, if there is any profit, and if there is any praise, take care of these things.
And the old man lifted up his eyes and saw the traveller in the open square of the town, and said, Where are you going? and from where do you come?
But the Lord gave up judges, who gave them salvation from the hand of those who were taken away.
And when Israel was planted, the Midianites and Amalek and the children of the east came up against them.
But I would make clear to you, brothers, that the things which came to me have gone to the place of the good news.
And the children of Judah were attacking Jerusalem, took it, put it to the sword, and put the whole town on fire.
And she said to her father, Let this thing be done to me: keep me from me two months, and I will go on and go down on the mountains, and I and my friends.
And the Amorite was purposing to be living in Haran, in Aijalon, and in Bene-jaakan; and the hand of the house of Joseph was hard on them, and they became under forced work.
Saying, I will make your name clear to my brothers; I will make melody to you among the people.
And on the day of the day, an evil spirit from God came to Saul, and he was talking in the middle of the house: and David was with his hand, as he did day by day. And Saul had his spear in his hand.
( For my father was fighting for you, and had pity on you, and made you free from Midian:)
And Samuel was waiting before the Lord, a young man armed with a linen ephod.
And if your father had no cause for me, say, David has said, Let me go to Beth-lehem, his town: for there is a year for all the house.
And they put their tents among them, wasting all the way to Gaza; and there was nothing in Israel for food, or sheep, or oxen, or asses.
Now give ear to their voice; but you will give them an oath and give them the way of the king who will rule over them.
And God gave them witness by signs, wonders, and wonders, and the distribution of the Holy Spirit, by his will.
Have you not turned away from the comfort of the one who has knowledge of you? My son, do not give light to the training of the Lord, or give up the training of the Lord.
Even so Christ did not give glory to himself to the high priest, but he who said to him, You are my Son, this day I have given you birth.
Then Samuel gave orders to the people, and put it in a book, and put it before the Lord. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
So let us go into the rest of the rest, so that no one may be put to shame in the way of faith.
And when he went to the house of his father at Ophrah, he put to death his brothers, the sons of Libya, as well as seventy persons, on one stone; and he was left, but he was not able to go.
And the wife of Jonathan, the wife of his friend, was his friend.
Now the Hebrew men who had been for the Philistines before, who had gone up with them into the tents, they came to the children of Israel with Saul and Jonathan.
And he gave to Eglon, king of Moab, a very fat man.
Now the Lord had made clear to Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
And the Lord came back to him and said, Go in this way; and you have made Israel free from Midian; I have not sent you.
And David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, Go up to the top of Carmel, and go to the man of Nabal, and say to him,
All the men of Gilead came together, and the men of Gilead were fighting against Ephraim, and the men of Gilead were attacking Ephraim: for they said, The tribe of Ephraim, in the middle of Ephraim, is in the middle of Manasseh.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day and put themselves in position at Gibeah, as at other times.
And at the top of the valley, at the grain-cutting, they got up and saw the ark and were glad to see it.
For you, even you, have been given back with those who have been prisoners, and have given joy to the goods of your goods, knowing that you have a better wealth and a living one.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, He is ill.
And now make a new cart, and take two young cows, on which there has come no yoke, and the oxen will be put to the cart, and the oxen will be taken from them.
And she said to her young men, Go before me. See, I come after you. But she did not say to her husband, The man of the dead.
For the flesh of these beasts, whose blood is taken into the holy place, may be burned outside the tent-circle.
And Israel and the Philistines were put in position, and they were put to shame.
And a certain man went out from the tents of the Philistines named Goliath, the Gittite, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And to those in Beth-el, and to Ramah, and to the people of Jattir,
And Saul said, Give praise to the Lord, for you have mercy on me.
And she said to him, My father, you have given up your mouth to the Lord; do to me what has come out of your mouth: for the Lord has taken punishment for you on your haters, even on the children of Ammon.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead had news of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And Midian and Amalek; and all the children of the east are sleeping in the valley, like the locusts, and of their camels as the sand by the sea.
Go down before me to Gilgal, and see, I am going down to you, to make burned offerings and peace-offerings, seven days till I come to you, and I have made clear to you what you are doing.
But in these things are a memory of sin every year.
To those in the towns of the children of Jerahmeel, and to those in the towns of the Kenites,
And she said to him, How can you say, I love you, when your heart is not with me? and these three times you have made sport of me, and have not said to me in the place where your strength is gone.
And David took note of all these words, and he was very angry with the king of Gath.
Then the Spirit of the Lord came on laughing, and went over Gilead and Manasseh, and went over Mizpah, and went over to the children of Ammon.
And David and his men went up and made a attack on the people of Geshur and over the Amalekites; for the people of the land were living in the land, who were of old, as you go to Shur, even to the land of Egypt.
And the men were not willing to give ear to him; and the man took his wife by force, and had knowledge of her, and they had knowledge of her and put her on her all night till the morning and sent her away in the morning.
And the Lord said to him, There are still a great number of people, and I will make them go down to the water, and I will make it clear to you there: for anyone I say to you, This man will go with you, and he will go with you; and he will not go with you, he will not go.
And now, what do you have in your hands? give me five bread or anything here.
And a man of God came to him, and said to him, This is what the Lord says: Have I made myself clear to your father's house when they were in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh's house?
And David got up and went away, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
And tasting the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come.
For they came up from Egypt, and Israel went through the waste land to the Red Sea, and went to Kadesh.
And he said to him, If I have found grace in your eyes, let me see a sign that it is you who are talking with me.
And he may not give himself to himself, as the high priest goes into the holy place every year with blood.
And the woman said, Whom am I to give you up? and he said, Give me up to Samuel.
For because of the work he came near to death, testing his life, so that he might give up what was needed to me.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she gave a loud voice, and the woman said to Saul, Why have you tricked me? for you are Saul.
And she sent for the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said to him, Has the Lord, the God of Israel, has given orders? Go and go to Mount Tabor and take ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and the children of Zebulun,
She may not take any of the fruit of the vine, or drink wine or strong drink, or take anything unclean: all that I gave to her will be kept.
And I went after them and overcame them, and took it out of their mouth; and they came up against me, and I took them by the edge of the throat, and put to death and put them to death.
Not in the agreement which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to take them out of the land of Egypt: because they did not keep my agreement, and I did not take care of them, says the Lord.
And Jacob gave grace to all the sons of Joseph, and gave worship to all the sons of Joseph, waiting on the top of his rod.
And Abishai said to David, God has given up your enemy into your hand this day: now, let me put a spear on him with the spear to the earth, and I will not put him to death again.
And she gave birth to a son, and gave him the name of the son of Shimea. And the child grew, and the Lord gave him his blessing.
And he had breastplates of brass on his feet, and a flaming spear between his arms.
Now these things were made ready, and the priests went in all directions to the first House, to do the work.
And the hand of Midian was strong against Israel, and the children of Israel made themselves strong for themselves in the mountains and in the holes and in the holes.
So that you may have mercy on your servant, for you have taken your servant into the agreement of the Lord with you: but if there is any sin in me, then you will put me to death. But why do you send me to your father?
But we may not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had made an oath, saying, Cursed is he who gives a wife to Benjamin.
And Saul, and Jonathan, his son, and the people who were living with them, were living in Geba; but the Philistines were at Michmash.
And the women gave songs to one another, saying, Saul has put his thousands to death, and David his ten thousands.
And they were crying to the Lord, and said, We have done wrong against you, because we have gone away from the Lord our God, and have given worship to the Baals.
The chief priest was named a priest, after the order of Malchijah.
I am journeying to the end of the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
So that this may be no grief to you, or a sin of heart to my lord, or that you have put to death the blood without cause, or that my lord has taken payment for himself: if the Lord has done well with my lord, keep your servant.
And Micaiah, the son of Amasa, said, Who is the son of Jerub-baal, who is the son of Jerub-baal? Is not the son of Jerub-heth? put in worship the men of Hamor, Shechem's father, and why do we worship him?
So that we might say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not be troubled: what will man do to me?
And David said to Jonathan, See, tomorrow is the new moon, and I am not to have a meal with the king; but let me go, so that I may go into the field till the third day.
And when he went up, he went up by the way of those who were living in tents on the east side of the east, and took care of the army; for the army was safe.
And he went and took three hundred small foxes; and he took the lights and gave them the tail to the tail, and he put one light between two tails.
The Lord takes death and gives life; he sends down to the underworld, and gives back again.
For the Lord will have mercy on whom the Lord will give punishment; and every son will take care of him.
And it came to pass on the next day, that the Philistines came to take away the bodies of Saul and his three sons on Mount Gilboa.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to them, We have gone back to you now, so that you may go with us and fight against the children of Ammon: you will be our head over all the people of Gilead.
And the trees went out on a certain time to put oil on the king; and they said to the olive-tree, Be overcome over us.
The number of them in addition to the number of the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
And in the end of the year, from the time when she went into the house of the Lord, it came to her, and she was weeping and not food.
And when the cart came into the field of Joshua, the town, there was a great stone where there was a great stone; and they took the wood of the cart and gave up the cows for a burned offering to the Lord.
For if the first agreement had been without leaven, then let there be no place for the second.
And Jesse made seven of his sons before Samuel; and Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not taken these things.
And Abigail went to the sister of Nabal, and saw that he had a feast in his house like the feast of the king; and he was overcome with wine, and was not able to make clear to him anything, till the light of the morning.
But he, because he is ever living for ever, has his priests no longer changed.
And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the coming world,
And he built an altar there to the Lord, and gave it to the Lord, saying, The Lord is peace. To this day it is in the house of the Rechabites:
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the rock of Etam, and said to him, Do you not see that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that you have done to us? And he said to them, As they did to me, so I have done to them.
And he took the people and put them in three bands, and put their place in the field and saw the people coming out of the town; and he got up against them and overcame them.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, Why are you questioning my name? and it is so great.
And they said to them, If you come to me, I will make war for you against the children of Ammon, and the Lord will give them into my band: will I be your ruler?
If you will be in fear of the Lord, and be his servant, and give ear to his voice, and do not go against the word of the Lord, you and the king who is king over you, are the Lord your God.
So that my chains in Christ are seen in all the house and in all other places;
And David had news in the waste land, which was the father of the sinner to shear his flock;
And the Lord will give effect to every one of his righteousness and his faith in which the Lord has given you this day, and I will not put my hand on the king of the Lord.
So he took him into his house and gave food to the asses; and they washed their feet and took food and drink.
And Samuel said, Is there any pleasure to the Lord in the burned offering and the offering of the Lord? see that it is better than the offering, to give attention than the fat of sheep.
In that he says, A new agreement has been made old, but the old and the old are near to destruction.
And these went into the house of Micah, and took the image of the ephod and the holy image and the images and the metal image. And the priest said to them, What do you do?
So the people sent word to Shiloh, and they took the ark of the agreement of the Lord of armies on the winged ones, and the two sons of Heli, and their bands, and their tents, with the ark of the agreement of God.
And if your father is looking for me to get directions for me, you are to give him an answer, and David said to me that he may go to Beth-lehem, his town, because there are an offering for all his tribe.
And they were cruel to them, and they made themselves their holes and their food on the mountains, and strong against them.
The word of Christ is not true, and is not true, purposing to put trouble on my chains:
For by this the old men gave witness to it.
So Christ, having been offering once to undergo the sins of many, will come a second time without sin, to those who are waiting for him for salvation.
And God did so that night, and it was dry on the wool, but on all the dew.
And Jesse gave his name Abinadab, and made him go before Samuel. And he said, This is not the Lord's selection.
And the wise men went with the responsible men of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them; and they gave birth to all his words before the Lord at Mizpah.
And when the Philistines saw David, he did not put him to shame; for he was a young man, and red, and in a beautiful face.
Only that the children of Israel might have knowledge of them, to give them orders for war, at the least before they had seen nothing.
And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, so that we may not be put to death: for we have said all our sins against all our sins, to give us a king.
For we have not here a strong town, but we are looking for what is to come.
He made a request for water, and she gave milk; and in the chief vessel she gave milk.
For as the Lord lives, who gives Israel salvation, even though it is in Jonathan my son, he will certainly be put to death. But there was no man among all the people who gave him an answer.
So Saul took him away from his face, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came before the people.
And when the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, the Lord gave a saviour to the children of Israel, who gave them salvation: Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
Of the teaching of the baptism of baptism, and of putting on of the hands, and of the coming from the dead, and of eternal punishment.
And when he had made an end of offering the burned offering and the burned offering, he went out to see him and blessing him.
So Saul took him away from him, and made him a captain over a thousand men; and he went out and came before the people.
And it will be that whatever comes from the doors of my house to see me, when I come back in peace from the children of Ammon, will be the Lord's, and I will give it up for a burned offering.
So the children of Ammon went over the Jordan, causing Judah and Benjamin and Ephraim; and Israel was greatly troubled.
And when she had weaned him, she took him with her, with three oxen and an ephah of meal and a bottle of wine, and took him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh, and the child was young.
And David said, Truly I have kept all that this man has done in the waste land, so that nothing was given to him; and he has given me evil for good.
And he was true to him who gave him orders, as Moses was in his house.
See that there is no one who has no fear of the grace of God, or a root of bitter drops come up against you, and a number of grief is made unclean by it.
And Jabez was running away; and they went after him and took him, cutting off his fingers and toes.
What more will I say? for the time would come to me, if I had given orders to the king of Babylon, cutting off his head, and his head, and his son, and his son, and David, and Samuel, and the prophets;
And a man of Benjamin went out from the fight, and came to the same day at Shiloh, with his clothing torn and with earth on his head.
At that night the Lord said to him, Take the ox of the cattle which is to be your father, and a second ox seven years old, and take away the altar of Baal which is your father's, and cut down the Asherah, which is near it;
And by faith he became a strange man in the land of the promise, as in a land not his heritage, living in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the sons of Israel,
And take the ark of the Lord and put it on the wagon, and put the gold jewels, which you give to him for a sin-offering, in a hole by its side, and send it away, so that it may go.
And the wife of Gilead gave birth to his sons; and the sons of his wife got up and were foolish, and said to him, You will not take the heritage of our father, for you are the son of another.
And see, and see, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dance, come out of the vine-gardens and take away every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And was he angry with him for forty years? Was it not with those who had done evil, whose dead bodies were in the waste land?
And when he came into a meeting place, the Philistines gave a loud cry against him, and the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and the cords of his hands were like a thread of flax burning with fire, and his bands were taken away from his hands.
And they went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and went to the house of Micah.
And she took the cords and put him in chains with them, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, the Philistines, and the men in secret places were seated in an inner room. But he took them from his arms like a cord.
Having a gold vessel and the ark of the agreement with gold round with gold, in which the gold pot had manna, and the rod of Aaron who had come, and the ark of the agreement;
And Saul said, I will give her to him, so that she may be a snare for him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And he said to David, For a second time you are to be my son-in-law to this day.
And when Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was full of fear, and his heart was troubled.
And Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and images and made holy one of his sons, who was his priest.
You have had no pleasure in burning offerings and offerings for sin.
And he made a sword for himself, and it was a cubit and a cubit, and he put it on his right robe on his right leg.
And when Saul had said to him that David had gone to Keilah, Saul said, God has given him into my hand, because he has shut himself in a town with two doors.
And Jonathan and David made a agreement, because he had love for him as his soul.
Five ships of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites and the Zidonians and the Hivites living on Lebanon; from Mount Hermon to the entrance of Hamath.
And David said to Saul, Your servant has been your servant to his father among the sheep, and the lion has come and the child has come, and has taken away a sheep from the driving.
And when he had taken him, they were sleeping on all the earth, feasting and drinking, and keeping the feast and the goods which they had taken away from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah.
And David was in a very great way: for the people were stoning him, for the souls of all the people were bitter, every one of his sons and daughters: but David made himself strong in the Lord his God.
So then, if you have done good faith and faith for Abimelech, and have done well against Baal and against his house, and have done well with him,
But the men of Gibeah came up against me, and they were round the houses round about me by night: they were thought to have been put to death, and my wife they made forced, and she was dead.
And when Saul had news that David had gone in flight to Gath, he did not go after him again.
For men make an oath by one greater than himself, and an oath for a sign is the end of all their argument.
And he sent a prophet to them, and said, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I made you come up out of Egypt, and took you out of the prison-house;
So let us go on the way of the teaching of Christ, that we may go on to the limits of the body, not the mark of the change of the faith which has been given to death, and faith to God;
And Deborah, the son of Abinadab, gave birth on that day.
And Jonathan gave orders to his young men, and said to him, Go and take them to the town.
And they gave birth to the name of this place, and there they gave offerings to the Lord.
Now the children of Judah had been fighting against Jerusalem, and took it and put it to death with the sword and put the town on fire.
For the law is given to men as high priests who are feeble, but the word of the oath which came after the law gives a Son for ever.
And Jesse took an ass, bread, and wine, and one he-goat, and sent by the hand of David his son to Saul.
For we have knowledge of him who has said, I am the one who takes care of me, and I will give it back; and again, the Lord will judge his people.
For as the Lord lives, who gives Israel salvation, even if it is in Jonathan my son, he will certainly be put to death. But no man from all the army said to him,
And the sin of the young men is very great before the Lord; for the men have no respect for the offering of the Lord.
Without father and without mother, having no family lists of days or the end of life, but made like the Son of God, the same is a priest ever.
So Michal let him go through the window, and he went away and got away.
See that there is no one who has no need of the grace of God, or a root of bitter grief gives up trouble, and a number of grief is made unclean by it.
Make a question to your young men, and they will say to you, Let the young men be glad in your eyes, for we have come on a good day: give your hand to your servants and to your son David.
And David said, See, the king's spear; let one of the king's servants come over and get it.
And the sound of the horn and the sound of words, which those who had ears of hearing might not be said to them,
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man? and who is like you in Israel? why then have you not kept your lord the king? for one of the people came to put the king to death.
And again, when he gives birth to the oldest, says, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a young man, and a beautiful child; and there was no more among the children of Israel than he was, from his arms and upward than any of the people.
And the men of Israel and Judah got up with a loud cry, and went after the Philistines, till you came to Gaza, and to the towns of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines went down by the road to Gath and to Gath and to Ekron.
And he got back from the images at Gilgal, saying, I have a word to you, O king. And he said, Be quiet. Go out from him, all those who are waiting for him.
And he will give him captains over thousands and captains of hundreds, and will put them to the ears of his land, and to get his grain, and to make his instruments of war and his war-carriages with instruments of war.
Those who make war with the Lord will be broken, and he will give up his voice in heaven: the Lord will judge the ends of the earth, and he will give strength to his king, and he will give glory to his king.
Those who make war with the Lord will be broken; in the heavens he will send his voice on them: the Lord will judge the ends of the earth, and he will give strength to his king, and he will give glory to his king.
And Eber, the wife of Heber, took a band of silver in her hand, and took the hammer in her hand, and went to his houses, and went to his houses, and it went into the earth: for he had come into a deep sleep and was overcome with fear, and he was dead.
For the law is given to men as high priests who are feeble, but the word of the oath, after the law, puts on a Son, who is made perfect for ever.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have done wrong, because I have broken the word of the Lord and your words, because I was afraid of the people and kept their voice.
And Abimelech said to Abimelech, All the masters of Shechem have come together together,
If there is any comfort in Christ, if any comfort is in love, if any man has a part of the Spirit, if any man has pity on his body,
And the men of David said to him, See, the day of which the Lord said to you, See, I will give your hater into your hands, and you will do to him as it seems good to you. Then David got up and cut off the robe of Saul secretly.
So David came to Saul and went into his house; and he was dear love for him, and he was the chief man of Saul.
Be certain, my brothers, so that there may not be any of you an evil heart of faith, to go away from the living God.
And Jonathan overcame the attack of the Philistines who were in Geba; and the Philistines had news of it. And Saul blew the horn through the land, saying, Let the Hebrews give ear.
For to me is Christ, and to death there is profit.
Saying, Truly I will give you a blessing, and I will give you great numbers.
Then the five men went to search out the land of Laish, and said to their brothers, Do you see that there is in these houses an ephod and false gods and a pictured image and a metal image? and now you are certain what to do.
For we have not a high priest, who may not have pity on our diseases: but one is tested in all things as we are, without sin.
Jesus Christ is the same and this day and ever.
But Zebulun and Naphtali were put to death in the land of envy.
And when Abigail saw David, she quickly got up and got off the ass, and falling down before David on her face, she went on his face to the earth.
And they have asked of you of peace and given to you two cakes, and you have taken from their hands.
And David said to Jonathan, Who has said to me, or what is your father's answer?
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a young man and a good child; and there was no more among the children of Israel, than he was, from his arms and upward than any of the people.
And the law of the priests was among the people; and when any man was offering a meal offering, the servant's servant came, and the flesh was burning, with a bit of three teeth in his hand;
Happy be the most more than women, and the wife of Eber the Kenites: for she is honoured over women in the tent.
Your servant overcame the lion and the bear; and the Philistines were like one of them, because he had made sport of the armies of the living God.
And so that there may be a man who is a man who is to be put to shame, or who has no respect for his brother Esau: who is to give his first birthright to his brother.
Say to him, Long life to you. Peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have.
And all the evil men of Shechem did God put back on their heads; and on them came the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerub-baal.
And he took the three hundred men into three bands; and he put a horn in every man's hand, and put out the vessels with fire and burning lights inside the vessels.
And he took ten men of his servants, as the Lord had said to him; and it came to pass, because he was afraid of his father and the men of the town, so that he might not do it by day, so that he did it by night.
And they gave to Caleb, Hebron, as Moses had said, and took away from there the three sons of Anak.
And when Saul was talking to the priest, the mass of fear in the army of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said to the priest, Let loose your hand.
And the Lord gave thought to Hananiah, and she became pregnant and gave birth to three sons and two daughters; and the child Samuel became the child of the Lord.
And take these ten small orders to the chief captain, and see your brothers, if they are well, and get knowledge with them.
And Cush and Puah and Samuel and Samuel gave you out of the hand of your haters round about, and you kept safe.
And all the men of Israel were together as one body together.
And he said to them, If you do this thing, I will take punishment on you, and after that I will put an end to you.
And Jonathan gave his head to his son, and said to him, Go and take them to the town.
Who is made, not by the law of the flesh, but by the power of an eternal life.
And the Lord was angry with Israel, and gave them into the hands of those who took them, and took them and gave them to their haters, who were living round about, and they were not able to give up their haters.
By faith Isaac gave blessing to Jacob and Esau.
And they put it on the wall and put David in the hands of the nails. And David went back from his face.
And his father and mother did not see that it was the Lord's purpose, that he was waiting for the Philistines. And at that time the Philistines were ruling over Israel.
And they cut down branches from the trees, every man as his food, and went after their ruler; and they took it round with the fire round about; and there was a thousand of them, men and women, from the people of Shechem.
And Saul said, They have taken them out of the Amalekites, and the people have kept the best of the sheep and the cattle, to give them offerings to the Lord your God: but the rest have been completely broken.
And the men of Israel said to the king, Rule over us, you and your son, and your son's son; for you have given us salvation from the hand of Midian.
And Eber, the Kenites, was parted from the Kenites, from the children of Hobab, the wife of Moses, and had put up his tents as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
And God gave back all the evil men of Shechem on their heads; and the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerub-baal, came on them.
Why, when he came into the world, he said, Give offerings and offerings to you, which you have not, and a body ready for me;
And his father and mother said to him, Is there no woman among the daughters of your brothers or of all my people, that you may take a wife of the Philistines who are not circumcision? And the son said to his father, Take this woman for me, for she has pleasure in my eyes.
And Saul put up their tents in the hill-country of Ararat, before the waste land. But David was living in the waste land, and he saw that Saul came after him into the waste land.
And they were crying to the Lord, and said, We have done wrong, because we have gone away from the Lord, and have given worship to the Baals and to Ashtaroth: but now give us salvation from the hand of our haters, and we will be your servant.
Whose end is destruction, whose God is their heart; and whose glory is in their shame, and whose heart is of the earth.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of the vine, that his wife gave birth to his wife, and his heart was dead inside him, and he became like a stone.
And David put his sword on his robe, and he went on his way to go; for he had no longer tested. And David said to Saul, I am not able to go in these things, for I have never been tested. And David put them off.
And some of those who are put to death get away, but there he is witness that he is living.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and put up their tents against Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Make a agreement with us, and we will be your servant.
From Ephraim their root is against Amalek; and after you, O Benjamin, among your people. Out of Machir came down from Machir, and from Zebulun, with the rod of a scribe.
She puts her hand to the seat of the nails, and her right hand to the work of the workmen; and when she goes down to the tents of Sisera, she put on the head of his head, and went through his houses.
And he made request to the Lord for him, and gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And Saul and his men went to search for them, and they gave orders to David; and when he came down from the rock, he was living in the waste land of Judah. And Saul went after him and went after him in the waste land.
And Moab was put to shame on that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest for eighty years.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, went in flight and were troubled.
And Heber, the Kenites, of the children of Hobab, the father of Moses, had taken away from the Kenites and put up his tents in the valley of Canaan, which is by Kedesh.
For this reason Christ was offering to undergo the sins of many; and to those who are looking for him, he will see the second time without sin.
Now where there is forgiveness, there is no part for sin.
But I have all, and have increased; I have been full, and have given me the things which you sent, a sweet smell, a sweet smell, a pleasing offering, pleasing to God.
And Shammah, the son of David, went out and took two of the middle pillars on which the house was resting, and he put on them one on his right and one on his left.
And he went down and talking with the woman, and she was pleased with the woman.
There is nothing in fighting or a glory of glory, but in pride of mind one another more than you.
And he said, I have come to give offerings to the Lord: let your hearts come with me, and come with me to the offering; and he made Jesse and his sons holy, and gave them to the peace-offerings.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See, I will do such a thing in Israel: when the ears of every one who has ears of hearing it will be on his head.
Now Samuel had no knowledge of the Lord, and the word of the Lord was not clear to him.
Is it not in the grain of the grain-grain? I will send out to the Lord, and he will send thunder and rain; and you will see and see that your evil-doing is great, which you have done in the eyes of the Lord for a king.
So that by them I may make a decision to Israel, if they will keep the way of the Lord, as their fathers did, or not.
And the oxen went straight through the road to Beth-shemesh; and they went on the road, straight as they went; and they did not turn to the right or to the left; and the chiefs of the Philistines went after them at the edge of Beth-shemesh.
And the children of Israel had pity on them for Benjamin their brother, and said, Today is one tribe from Israel.
And the five men went and came to the town of Laish; and they saw the people living in the way of the Zidonians, quiet and quiet, and having no need in the land or in the land; and they were far from the Zidonians, and had no word with anyone.
And the Lord said to Samuel, And he said, Here I am.
And all that generation came to their fathers, and another generation came after them, who had no knowledge of the Lord or the work which he had made for Israel.
And the fifth of the Gileadites was numbered for Israel for six years; and he was put to death in his death in Gilead.
Looking to him, the grace of faith, because of the joy which was given to him for the glory which was given to him, and who put shame on its shame and seated at the right hand of God.
And fear was the sign which Moses said, I am troubled and overcome.
And the king said to the people who were standing by him, Come round and put to death the priests of the Lord, because their hands are with David, and because they have knowledge that he is running away, and have not given up my ear: and the servants of the king have not been willing to put their hand on the priests of the Lord.
And David went in the waste places in the waste places, and was in the hill-country in the waste land of Ziph; and Saul kept looking for him every day, but God did not give him into his hands.
And Deborah, a prophet, was a prophet of the earth, judging Israel.
And give him a bit of figs of figs, and two cakes of dry figs, and he will give him food, and his spirit will come back to him; for he has not taken bread or drink water for three days and three nights.
And when it was ninety years old, his eyes were fixed, and he was not able to see.
And when their fathers or their brothers come to us, we will say to them, Give them freely to us, because we did not take for every man of them his wife, or have you given them to them, but now you are to be judged.
And the people came to Beth-el and took their seats there before God, and lifted up their voices and weeping bitterly.
And the Philistines were full of fear, for they said, God has come into the tent-circle. And they said, Sorrow for us! for this has not been done before.
And the number of the days that David was living in the land of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
By the way which he made to us, a new and living way, through the veil which is to say,
And the man, the son of Elkanah, and all his family went up to give an offering to the Lord for the year of the year, and for his word.
And he took ten men of his servants, and did as the Lord had said to him; and because he was afraid of his father's house and the men of the town, he was not able to do it by day.
Because I will have mercy on their wrongdoing, and their sins and their wrongdoing will be cut off from me.
And when David had news of the dead of the dead, he said, Praise be to the Lord, who has given the cause of my shame from the hand of the sinner, and has kept back his servant from evil: but the Lord has given back the evil man's evil on his head. And David sent and said to Abigail, to take her as his wife.
And the children of Elon, the town of Elon, died, and was put to rest in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And they named the name of the town Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel: but the name of the town was the name of the town at the first.
And Samuel the child took care of the Lord before, and the word of the Lord was dear in those days, and there was no open vision.
Then Samuel got up and went up from Gilgal to the town of Benjamin; and Saul took the men who were with him, about six hundred men.
And Saul came after the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, What is the cause of the people weeping? And they gave him the words of the men of Jabesh.
And the people made answer to him, saying, So will it be done to the man who puts him to death.
But this is what we will do in the land of Geba:
And do not let yourselves be troubled by your haters, which is a sign of destruction to them, but of your salvation and this from God;
He keeps the feet of his saints, and the evil-doer is quiet in the dark, because there is no man by power.
Keep your ways, and be under them; for they are waiting for your souls, so that they may do this with joy and not with sorrow: for this is not better for you.
So that you may not be a hater of the way, but the desire of those who are guided by faith and the faith which is based on the undertaking of God.
For it is not possible for the blood of the ox or of the goats.
Then he who was left among the honoured he gave orders to the people of the Lord, and made me ruler over the strong.
And she got up and put himself on her face to the earth, and said, See, your servant is a servant, to keep the feet of the servants of my lord.
But six hundred went back to the waste land, to the rock of Rimmon; and they kept on the rock of Rimmon four months.
The haters of the Lord will be broken, and he will send his voice out of heaven: the Lord will judge the ends of the earth, and he will give strength to his king, and he will give glory to his king.
And when it is made clear to men to be put to death, but after this cause,
But God had a hollow place in the mouth of the mouth, and water came from there; and when he had overcome it, his spirit came back to life: and he gave the name of it the name of the Stone stone, which is still to this day.
And the man of the dead said to David's servants, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now, but every man of his master is cruel.
And I will make me a holy priest who will do according to what is in my heart and in my mind; and I will make him a safe place, and he will go before my selection for ever.
And he took the responsible men of the town, and thorns of the waste land and thorns; and with them he gave teaching to the men of Succoth.
And they said to him, No, but we will keep you safe and give you into their hands, but we will not put you to death. And they put him in two bands and took him up out of the rock.
And they went away from his brothers, and were living in the land of the men of Tob; and the law was fixed with them, and they went out with him.
And the Philistines put themselves in position against Israel; and when they made war, Israel was put to death before the Philistines, and they put to death four thousand men in the field.
Now, O king, come down; for all the desire of your soul is to come down, and our part will be handed over to the king.
Let us go out to him outside the tent-circle, for his shame.
And the sons of Benjamin went out against the people, and they were taken away from the town; and they came to death and put to death the people, as at other times, in the roads which goes up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field of Israel.
This is the agreement which I will make with them, says the Lord, saying, I will put my laws in their hearts, and I will put them on their minds.
And the people got up on the goods, and took sheep and oxen and oxen and put them to death on the earth; and the people took their food with the blood.
And when the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, they said to her, David sent us to you to take you to his wife.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them over to the Philistines for forty years.
And his father and his mother said to him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of your brothers or of all my people, that you go to take a wife of the Philistines? And the son said to his father, Get her for me, for she is pleased with me.
Now the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of the Lord and put it into the house of Abinadab, on the mountain, and made holy Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the Lord.
And Abigail came to the widow of Nabal, and saw, he had a feast in his house, like a feast of the king, and the heart of the sinner was glad inside him, and he was overcome with grief, and was not able to give him anything or more, till the light of the morning.
And the people came to the tent-circle, and the responsible men of Israel said, Why has the Lord put us to death today before the Philistines? let us take the ark of the agreement of the Lord from Shiloh, so that it may come among us and give us salvation out of the hand of our haters.
And one of the young men gave birth to Abigail, the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, See, David sent men out of the waste country to give praise to our master, and he has made sport of them.
And the Lord sent you on the way, saying, Go and put to death the sinners of Amalek, and make war against them till you have completely destroyed them.
And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, so that we may not be put to death: for we have said all our sins against all our sins, to give us a king.
And when Saul had news that David had gone in flight to Gath, he had no more search for him.
And Jair came to death and was put to death in the earth.
Looking to the grace of faith, Jesus, who was before the joy before him, having the cross over with shame, being shamed, on the right hand of God, seated on his right hand.
See, today your eyes have seen how the Lord has given you this day into my hand in the hollow of the hole: some have sent me to death, but I have kept you safe; and I said, I will not give my hand against my lord, for he is the Lord's selection.
And they said to him, Give a question, that we may say of God, that we may see if our way is right.
And the next day, when the Philistines came to take away the dead, they found Saul and his three sons on Mount Gilboa.
But Christ has faith in his house, in whose house we are, if we have faith in our faith and the hope of our hope.
And Samuel said, How am I to go? if Saul has news, he will put me to death. And the Lord said, Take a young cow with you, and say, I have come to give an offering to the Lord.
And when Samuel was offering the burned offering, the Philistines were fighting against Israel: and the Lord sent thunder on that day on the Philistines and troubled them, and they were overcome before Israel.
And Samuel said, Though you were little in your eyes, were you not the head of the tribes of Israel? the Lord made you king over Israel:
And he put the lights on fire, and went to the place of the Philistines, and burned up the destruction and the grain and the new gardens.
And Moses, when he had been given birth, was in secret for three months by his mother, because they saw that he was a beautiful child, and they were not afraid of the king's orders.
For the law made nothing without effect, but on the other hand there is the cause of a good hope through which we come near to God.
How much more will you be judged, being judged by the power of the Son of God, and the blood of the agreement by which he has been made holy, and the blood of the grace of grace?
Why do you make sport of my offerings and my offerings which I have given to my living-place, while you have given up your sons more than me by making yourselves fat from the best of all the offerings of my people Israel?
And Shammah, the son of David, took the two pillars on which the house had rest and put on them the one with his right hand and the other with his left.
For this reason I am hoping to send him at once, as soon as I see my time.
And Micah said to him, Go with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten shekels of silver by the year, and a request of clothing and your food. So the Levites went in.
But if they say, Come up to us, and let us go up, because the Lord has given them into our hands; this will be a sign to us.
Now there was a certain man of Saul's servants that day, waiting before the Lord; and he was named Edom, the chief of the herdmen of Saul.
For this time I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and put oil on him to be ruler over my people Israel; and he will keep my people safe from the Philistines: for I have seen my people, because their cry has come to me.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went to his place.
And the king said to the men who were waiting for him, Go and put to death the priests of the Lord, because their hand is with David, and because they had knowledge when he went away, and did not give it to me, the servants of the king would not put their hand on the priests of the Lord.
For it is clear that our Lord has come out of Judah, in which Moses has said nothing against the priests.
And my God will give you all the need of yours for his wealth in the glory of Christ Jesus.
In the days of Shelomoth, the son of Gad, in the days of Salecah, and the roads were past, and the roads were turned straight by roads.
Even so the Christ did not give glory to himself to be the chief priest, but he who said to him, You are my son, I am your father.
And the people came to Beth-el and put their seats there till evening before God; and they lifted up their voices and were crying bitterly.
And he said in another place, You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And they said to them, Come and be our chiefs, so that we may go against the children of Ammon.
And the ark of the Lord was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And when Saul had said to the priest, There was a great noise in the tents of the Philistines, and it was increased by steps; and Saul said to the priest, Come with your hand.
And I gave you up out of the hands of the Egyptians, and out of the hands of all your haters, driving them out from before you, and gave you their land.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord after death.
And Saul took him from him, and put him to the head of a thousand, and went out before the people.
Where your fathers were tested by testing, and saw my works for forty years.
And of the children of Dan, Zorah and Eshtaol, armed with war, went out from there.
And David said to Saul, Why do you give ear to the words of man, saying, See, David is looking for your evil?
Now some of the Hebrews had gone over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; but Saul was still in Gilgal, and all the people went after him shaking.
And when the spirit of God was on Saul, David took the harp with his hands, and Saul was quiet and was well, and the evil spirit went away from him.
And the Edomites who were there, and the chief of the servants of Saul, said, I saw the son of Jesse, the son of Ahitub, the priest.
And David, questioning the Lord, said, Am I to go after this band? will I come after them? And he said to him, Go after you; for you will certainly overtake and be safe.
And she said, The glory of God has gone away from Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And there was no need of small or great, or of their sons or daughters or of the goods which they had taken; and David got well.
Seeing it is necessary for some time to come to it, and to whom it was first, it came not because of faith.
Men, my brothers, I do not take care of myself, but only one thing which I do: I take care of the things which are in the past, and I give myself to those who are before,
And the angel of the Lord came, and took his seat under the great tree at Ophrah, which was the name of Joash, the son of David; and he put the grain on his son, crushing the wine of the grapes from the grain-floor.
And the sons of David were Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they became his wives.
And you will go on from there, and you will come to the tree of Tabor, and there three men will come to you, who go up to God at Beth-el; and three male goats, and three cakes of bread, and a skin of wine.
And of him we have much words to say, and hard to say, seeing that you have no sense.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of Midian for seven years.
And Saul, seeing David's voice, said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Naham, the son of Meshullam, the son of Berechiah, the son of a Benjamite, a strong and strong.
If you have done a true thing and is right with the sword and at the house of Goshen, then have joy in Abimelech, and let him be glad in you.
So that you may have knowledge of the things which are good, so that you may be true and without sin till the day of Christ.
And they gave worship to the Lord all his days, and the days of the old who had long time after him, and who had knowledge of all the works of the Lord which he had done for Israel.
And when he came to a meeting place, the Philistines were crying out with a loud voice, and the spirit of the Lord came on him, and the cords on his hands were like a flax burning with fire, and his bands dropped from his hands.
And David took his living-place in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
And Saul sent for the army and took care of them, and took care of them, two hundred thousand footmen and ten thousand men of Judah.
And Jonathan sent out to the young man, saying, Go quickly, do not get enough. And Jonathan's servant got the arrows and came to his master.
I will go out and go before my father in the field where you are, and I will say to my father about you, and if I see anything, I will make clear to you.
See to the dogs, and see to evil workers, and see for ever.
Who, being in the form of God, saw it not wrong with God,
So David got up early with his men, to go in the morning to go back to the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And every year he went round to Beth-el, and at Gilgal, and at Mizpah, judging Israel in the hill-country.
So Jonathan made a agreement with the house of David, saying, The Lord will take care of it at the hand of David's haters.
And she came to him, while he was seated alone in his place, and said, I have a word from God for you. So he got up from his seat.
Now then, take away my sin, and come back with me, so that I may give worship to the Lord.
And they made a agreement before the Lord: and David was living in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
So, brothers and sisters, had no fear in the most holy place by the blood of Jesus.
And David said, See, the king's spear is here; let one of the young men come over and take it.
And he sent representatives to the king of the children of Ammon, saying in his name, What have you to do with me, that you have come against me to waste my land?
But the Amorites were living in the hill-country of brass, in Aijalon, and in Bene-jaakan; and the hand of the house of Joseph was overcome, so that they were under forced work.
And Saul sent men to David's house to take care of him and put him to death in the morning; and Michal, the wife of David, said to him, If you keep not your life tonight, tomorrow you will be put to death.
Then Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and went out to search for David and his men, even to his men, and to the fields of the field.
And Jonathan said to him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be turned away, for your seat will be wasted.
And Samuel was waiting before the Lord, as a young man had a linen ephod.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of Midian seven years.
For there was a tent made for the first, the table, and the table, and the bread which was in the holy place.
And there is not a man who has not been made clear before him, but all things are without clothing and open to his eyes.
And Abimelech came to the tower and attacked it and came near the door of the tower to be burned with fire.
And they gave him a cake of figs of figs, and two cakes of raisins; and when he had eaten, his spirit came back to him: for he had no bread, and had no water for three days and three nights.
By faith, Rahab, the loose woman, did not be put to death with those who were not evil, but had taken the men of men in peace.
Jesus Christ, in the past and in the day, and for ever.
But when the chief of them came to their death, they became sinners more than their fathers, and went after other gods, worshipping them and worshipping them, and did not give up their acts or their hearts.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See not to his face, and to the high place of his body: for I have put an end to him, because it is not as man sees, for man is looking at the eyes, and the Lord is looking at the heart.
And they said to him, Make search for God, that we may see if our way on which we go may be well.
And he made request for him in the Lord, and money was given to him, and the sword of Goliath the Philistines gave him.
And when the time came after the time of the grain-cutting, she gave birth to a son, and gave his name Samuel, because I had made a request to him from the Lord.
And Samuel went back after Saul; and Saul made himself low before the Lord.
And when they came to the land of the Kohathites, Saul said to his young man who was with him, Come, and we will be turned back, or my father will go out from the asses and have sorrow for us.
Then the rest of the people went up from Gilgal to the town of Benjamin, and the rest of the people went up after Saul, going out from Gilgal to Gibeah in the hill-country of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people, about six hundred men.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver which have been taken away from you, and what you have cursed and say of my ears, See, the silver is with me, and I took it. And his mother said, Happy be my son of the Lord.
And when Saul came to Amalek, he put an attack in the stream.
And the Lord said to him, The people who are with you are many, and Midian will not be given into their hands: or Israel will give glory to me and say, I was safe by my strength.
And the children of Benjamin came together from the towns to Gibeah, to go out to fight against the children of Israel.
And Saul gave orders to his servants secretly, saying, See, the king has delight in you, and all his servants have love for you: now be the king's wife.
And her master got up in the morning, opening the doors of the house, and went out to go on his way; and, behold, the woman, his wife, was falling at the door of the house, and her hands on the doorstep.
And Saul said, I will give him her, so that she may be a snare to him, and that the hands of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said to David, You are to this day be my son in the law in the two.
And you will take them up like a cover, and they will be changed: but you are the One who is to me, and your years will not be wasted.
And at the end of two months, she went back to her father, who had done with her, and had no knowledge of man. And it was a law in Israel.
For he says, I will not keep the memory of their sins and their evil doings.
And David went away from the vessels which he had taken; and he went to the place of the armed place, and said, All things are well with his brothers.
And Samuel said to him, The Lord has put the kingdom of Israel away from you this day, and has given it to your neighbour who is better than you.
And he said, I have done wrong: but now I will give you honour before the chiefs of my people and Israel, and let me go again to the Lord your God.
And now, let not my blood be put to the earth before the Lord: for the king of Israel has come out to be like a bird, like the partridge in the mountains.
Then David said to Abimelech, the Hittite, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, brother of Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul to the tent-circle? And he said, I will go down with you.
And when he was told, he went and stood on the top of the mountain, lifting up his voice and said, Give ear to me, O men of Shechem, so that God may give ear to you.
And Saul said to him, Whose son is you, young? And David said, I am the son of your father, the son of Jesse.
And she said to him, The Philistines are on you, and the Philistines are on you. And he got up from his sleep and said, I will go out like this, and I will go out quickly; but he did not see that the Lord had gone away from him.
And all Israel, from Dan to Beer-sheba, saw that Samuel was a prophet of the Lord.
And Samuel said to all the people of Israel, If with all your heart you are turning to the Lord, take away the strange gods and the people from among you; put your heart to the Lord and be his servant, and he will give you salvation from the hand of the Philistines.
And the shame of the Christ is greater than the wealth of Egypt, for he had respect for the payment.
And Saul and the men of Israel went together, and put up their tents by the valley of God, and put up their position against the Philistines.
And the king went away from him, and gave worship to Baal and Ashtaroth.
And he came to the rods by the way, where there was a rock; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men were living in the open places.
The Christ is the same as yesterday and ever and ever.
Because of this the people of old were true.
And when the ark was in Kiriath-jearim, the time was long for twenty years; and all the children of Israel were weeping for the Lord.
And David said, Do the goods of Keilah shut me up, and my men, into the hands of Saul? And the Lord said, They shut up.
And the meal took up the leg and put it before Saul. And Samuel said, See what is left! put it in front of you, and take it to you; for this time has been kept for you since I said, I have taken the people. So Saul took food with Samuel that day.
And Jesse said to his son David, Take for your brothers an ephah of this dry grain and these ten cakes and go to the tents of your brothers.
And he said to them, Come after me; for the Lord has given the Moabites the Moabites into your hands. And they went down after him and took the Jordan on Moab, and did not let anyone go over.
The Lord takes death and gives life; he goes down to the underworld and gives up.
And when she had news of the noise of the cry, he said, What is the sound of this trouble? And the man came quickly and gave birth.
Let us keep the memory of our hope that it is not possible; for he is true to his word.
At the end of the stamping of the legs of the stamping of the beasts, the work of their strong ones.
Then, when I come back from the doors of my house, when I come back in peace from the children of Ammon, it will be the Lord's, and I will give it up for a burned offering.
And the men of Ephraim said to him, Why have you done this to us, that you did not let us go, when you went to fight against Midian? And they were cruel to him.
If they say this to us, Be waiting till we come to you; then we will be quiet in our place, and not go up to them.
And they will give you their love and give you two loaves of bread, which you will take from their hands.
And all the men of Israel came together against the town, together with one man.
And she took a new cords and put him in chains with them, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, and the Philistines are on you, and there were men living in the room; and he took them from his arms like a thread.
And going out from there to fight against Benjamin, he came against the town.
And after him, Jair went up from Gilead, judging Israel for twenty-two years.
And I said to you, I am the Lord your God, do not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living; but you have not given ear to my voice.
And David made an oath again, and said, Your father has knowledge that I have seen grace in your eyes, and he says, Do not let Jonathan see this, or he may be sad, and still the Lord is living, and your soul is life, but I am living between me and death.
And the angel of the Lord said to Adam, See, I said to the woman, Let her take care of her.
As to the rest, my brothers, have joy in the Lord: to put the same things to you, even to me, even to me is no weariness, but to you it is necessary.
And David, questioning the Lord again, said to him, Up, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
And Israel sent representatives to Sihon, king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, Let us go through your land to my place.
That he may be gentle to those without knowledge and wandering in error, because he is overcome with disease.
And Judah went out against the Canaanites who were living in Hebron ( that is, Hebron), and the name of that which was in the first time of Arba, Ahiman, and Talmai.
So David overcame the Philistines with a stone and a stone, and overcame the Philistines and put him to death; but there was no sword in David's hands.
For it was he who has all things, and through whom are all things, giving glory to the glory of God, to make the God of his salvation complete through the troubles.
So that you may have knowledge of the things which are different, so that you may be holy and free to the day of Christ.
While Israel was living in Heshbon and its daughter-towns, and in Aroer and its daughter-towns and in all the towns which are on the edge of the Arnon, three hundred years, why did you not get well in that time?
The Lord has come to Saul to the town of Gibeah, saying, Is not David in his secret place in the hill country, in the waste?
And David said to him, Will you send me down to this band? And he said, Give me word by God, that you may not put me to death and not give me up into the hands of my master, and I will send you down to this band.
And David said, What have I done now? is it not a word?
And after seven days, after the fixed time of Samuel, he did not come to Gilgal; and the people were wandering from him.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and put it in the house of Dagon, and put it in the house of Dagon.
See, my daughter, who is a virgin, and his wife, let me take them out and put them low, and do to them as seems good in your eyes: but to this man is no wrong to this man.
And David got up, and came to the place where Saul had put up his tents; and David saw the place where Saul was resting, and Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul went to the place of the carriage, and the people were round about him.
And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites who were living in Gezer; but the Canaanites were living in Gezer with them.
And see that if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dancing, then you have gone out of the vine-gardens and have taken for you his wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and have gone to the land of Benjamin;
And Saul said to Ahijah, Take the ark of God here, for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And he took him down, and saw that they were stretched out over the face of all the earth, feasting and drinking and drinking and all the great goods which they took from the land of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah.
The river of the river was taken away, the river of old, the river of the river; and my soul was crushed by you.
See that you do not have the voice of the man of teaching: for if they do not go away from the earth, we will not be able to get away from him, if we are turned away from him from heaven.
And David said, The Lord is living, the Lord will certainly put him to death, and his day will come to death, and he will go down to the sword and be cut off.
And they went on from there to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the hand of Midian overcame Israel, and the children of Israel made them the holes in the mountains and in the holes and in the holes.
And if the man said to him, They will put the fat on the first side and take as much as your soul desires. Then he would say, No; but if not, I will take it by force.
And they overcame the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people were very tired.
And David went on, he and six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the river of decision, and the rest was still there.
The sons of song were foolish men; they had no knowledge of the Lord.
So Saul was watching David from that day and forward.
And when he saw that he was the angel of the Lord, he said, Ah, Lord! for I have seen a angel of the Lord face to face.
And that night the Lord said to him, Get up, go down against the tent-circle, for I have given it into your hands.
And when the angel of the Lord gave these words to all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voice and weeping;
Whose end is destruction, whose god the stomach and the glory of their shame, which the things on the earth are straight.
And Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah on the second day, and put an end to the destruction of the children of Israel, eighteen thousand men; all these were taken by the sword.
And David said, The Lord, who gave me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the mouth of the child, will give me salvation from the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said to David, Go, and the Lord will be with you.
And Saul said to his armourbearer, Take your sword and let me go through with it; or these uncircumcised men will come and make me cruel, but his arms will not come, for he was much afraid. So Saul took the sword and went down on it.
And the Lord said to the king of Israel, By the three hundred men, I will give you salvation, and put the Midianites into your hands; and let all the people go to his place.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the chiefs of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men, from the top of the roof and the higher part of the house, were there, looking at the rest of the people.
Am I no longer foolish men, so that you have sent this man to me to make sport of him? will this man come into my house?
And Christ did not give glory to himself to be made a high priest, but he who said to him, You are my Son, this day I have given you birth.
And the Spirit of the Lord was well with him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and overcame the thirty men and took their arms, and gave orders to those who had knowledge of it, and his wrath was burning, and he went up to his father's house.
And the five men went up to search out the land, and came in there, and took the image and the ephod and the images and the metal images, and the priest was waiting at the doorway of the doorway with the six hundred men of war.
And David said to Abimelech, the priest, The king has given me a request, and he has said to me, Let no man have knowledge of the business which I send you, and what I have given you orders; and I have given my servants to such and such a place.
And David made an oath to Saul, and Saul went back to his house; but David and his men went up to the strong place.
For our God is a burning fire.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Here I am.
And David made request to the Lord again. And the Lord said to him, Up, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
And he went in to him: he was seated in the summer, and said, I have a word from God to you. And he got up from his high seat.
So they took their seats, and they took their food and drink; and the girl's father said to the man, Let your heart be well in all the night, and let your heart be full of joy.
And the gold trees of the land, in addition to the number of all the towns of the Philistines, had five masters, walled towns and unwalled towns, even to the great stone which they put down the ark of the Lord, which is to this day in the field of Joshua the house of Joshua.
And Saul came after the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, What is the trouble of the people weeping? And they gave him the words of the men of Jabesh-gilead.
So now, stand still, so that I may be with you before the Lord of all the upright acts of the Lord which he did to you and to your fathers.
And Saul went back and did not go after the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their places.
So let it be given to the young men who go after my lord.
And again, I will put my hope in him; and again, I and the children whom God has given me.
And he said to his young son, Go and get me the arrows which I have put out for. And when the child was running, he made an arrow against the child.
And still through the blood of the goats and the cattle, but through the blood of his blood, came into the holy place, having eternal salvation.
And a great man went out from the tents of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath of Gath, and his height was six cubits and a span.
And his master said to him, We will not go here into the town of a strange man who is not of the children of Israel; we will go over to the town of Gibeon.
And they went away to test Israel, to see if they would give ear to the orders which the Lord had given to their fathers by Moses.
So now it is necessary for the purpose of the things in heaven to be made clean with these things, and the things which are in heaven are better than these.
For the chiefs of Israel took the lead in Israel; for the people gave themselves freely, blessing the Lord.
But his master said to him, We will not go back to the town of a strange man who is not of the children of Israel, but we will go over to the town of the children of Israel.
And the children of Israel were crying to the Lord, for he had nine hundred war-carriages of iron, and he made the children of Israel hard for twenty years.
And when the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, they said to her, David has sent us to you, to take you to him as wife.
And David took the spear and the water from Saul's head; and they went away, and no one saw it, and no one had knowledge, and no one got up, for they were all sleeping: for a deep sleep from the Lord came on them.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come and be king over us.
And when they came, he saw Eliab and said, Truly the Lord's selection is before him.
But when he was sleeping till the middle of the middle of the middle of the night, he took the doors of the doorway with its pillars and the lock and put them on his shoulders, lifting them up to the top of the hill which is facing Hebron.
Saying, Give offerings and offerings and burned offerings and sin offerings which you have not, or desire for sin; which is based on the law,
And David put them to death from the evening even till evening; and there was not a man of them who had gone away from there, but four hundred young men, who went on camels and went in flight.
So Jesus, so that he might make the people holy by his blood, without the door.
And when the time came, she gave birth to a son, and she gave his name Samuel, saying, Because I have made a request to him from the Lord.
But Saul and the people were cruel to them, and the best sheep, and the best cattle, and the fat cows, and the lambs, and all that was good, and they were not willing to put them to destruction: but everything that was turned away and made waste, they put to destruction.
Why do you make your hearts hard, like Egypt and Pharaoh's heart hard? did not he, after he was put to death, let them go, and let them go.
And now Samuel had knowledge of the Lord, and the word of the Lord had not been seen by him.
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, and let all of us take the oath which we have made by the name of the Lord, saying, May the Lord be between me and you, and between my seed and your seed for ever.
And Micaiah said, Now I am certain that the Lord will do me good, for I am a Levite to my priest.
So I gave him to the Lord as long as he is living in the name of the Lord. And he gave worship to the Lord.
The kings of the earth came to war against the kings of Canaan, and the kings of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo; they did not take care of them.
And he went in and made ready a young goat and made unleavened cakes of meal; and he put the meal in a basket, and put the spices in a vessel, and took it to him under the tree and gave it to him.
And he said to her, If they keep me with a cord with which there is no work, I will become feeble and be like another man.
And Saul said, Happy be you of the Lord, for you have mercy on me.
From where there was no blood, there was no blood.
And David went in flight and got away, and came to the town of God to Ramah, and gave him news of all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and made their living-place in the same way.
And when the sun goes up early in the morning, when he comes out against you with his people, do to him what you may be able to do.
And make an altar to the Lord your God on the top of this high place, in order, and take the second ox and make a burned offering with the wood of the Asherah which you are to be cut down.
You have made him a little lower than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honour, and have put him over the works of your hands.
For this cause I am hoping to send it, so that I may see how it will go with me.
And controlling his left hand, he took the spear from his right leg and put it into his stomach.
And he went away from them, so that he might take Israel by them, if they would give ear to the orders which the Lord had given to their fathers by Moses or not.
And when David had knowledge that Saul had done evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Take the ephod.
And the Midianites and Amalek and all the children of the east went in the valley like a swarm of locusts, and their camels without number, as the sand by the sea.
Woe to us! who will give us salvation from the hand of these gods? these are the gods who overcame the Egyptians with all the diseases in the waste land.
The Lord gave a name to Samuel, and he said, Here am I.
And to a holy agreement Jesus, and to the blood of death, talking better than that of Abel.
But David's men said to him, See, we are troubled here in Judah; how much more then, if we go to Keilah against the army of the Philistines?
And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog, that you may come to me with rods? And the Philistines took David by his gods.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? and to whom does he go up from us?
And the men of Israel were joined together that day, and Saul made a statement to the people, saying, Cursed be the man who will take food till evening, till I be put to death on my haters. So no one of the people had food for food.
And the men did so; and they took two milk cows and put them on the wagon, and shut up their calves at the house.
And he took them before the king of Moab, and they were living with him all the time when David was in the high place.
And he said to them, Go in peace, the Lord will see your way and the way you go.
The Lord makes poor and makes low; he makes low, and he is lifted up.
And when we had gone, Jesus made a high priest for ever after the order of Malchijah.
And when the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, and those on the other side of the Jordan, saw that the children of Israel had gone away, and Saul and his sons were dead, they left the towns and went in flight; and the Philistines came and made their living-place in them.
Now when David saw that Saul had gone out to search for his life, David was in the waste land of Ziph in the land of the Philistines.
For God has given us a good thing, so that they may not be made complete from us.
In order to test Israel, or to keep the way of the Lord, as their fathers did.
And on the third day you are to go down quickly, and go to the place where you have put up your secret place in the day of the rest of the house of Ephraim.
And after some time the children of Ammon made war with Israel.
And Jesse gave birth to Shema, and said to him, The Lord has not given this.
Because you did not have the voice of the Lord, and did not put his wrath on Amalek, the Lord has done this to you this day.
For we have news of the good news, even as they were, but the word was not good for them, and they were not mixed with faith in those who had given ear.
And the king said, Say to your son, the young man.
See that you do not keep him from the words of his mouth: for if they do not go away from him who has not been given to the earth, we will have much more than he who says to us from heaven.
Being complete as the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ, to God's glory and praise.
And he was not able to take away the towns, and the towns, and the towns, and the towns of Dor and the towns of Dor and its daughter-towns, or the people of Ibleam and its towns, or the people of Megiddo and its towns; and the Canaanites were living in this land.
And after him, Jair, from Gilead, took the seat of Israel for twenty years.
And all the children of Israel went out from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead; and they came together to the Lord at Mizpah.
Not from the noise of the bowmen, in the place of water; there they will give directions to the upright acts of the Lord, even the upright acts of his rule in Israel. Then the people of the Lord went down to the doors.
And David went in flight against the Philistines, and took his sword and put it out of its place, and put him to death, cutting off his head with it: and when the Philistines saw that their men were dead, they went in flight.
And the wagon came into the field of Jeshua, a garden, and there was a great stone; and they cut the wood in pieces, and put the oxen on it as a burned offering to the Lord.
And the day after the evil spirit of God came on Saul, and he was a prophet in the middle of his house; and David was acting with his hand as at other times. And Saul took a spear in his hand.
And he went down and talking with the woman, and she was pleased with the woman.
For this reason he gave him all these things to be made like his brothers, so that he might be a man of mercy and true priest, to make payment for the sins of the people.
And he will take a tenth of your sheep, and you will be his servants.
And they said to sport, Come and be our captain, so that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
Having this hope, I am certain that I will be in rest with you all, for your purpose and joy in the faith;
Or let him be free from the power of the world, but now at the end of the world he has been made clear to take away sin by the offering of himself.
And David sent out ten young men, and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel and go to the Carmelite, and give him a kiss in my name.
And after him, Beth-lehem, the son of Beth-lehem, was judging Israel.
And when the Lord has done to you, my lord, all the good he has said about you, and will have made you ruler over Israel,
The sons of Heli were sons of men; they had no knowledge of the Lord.
And they were a wall to us by night and by day, as we were with them keeping the sheep.
So Jonathan made a agreement with the house of David, and the Lord gave it to David's haters.
So the Lord gave attention to her, and she became a child, and she gave birth to three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel became stronger before the Lord.
For the people were numbered, and there were not any of the people of Jabesh-gilead there.
And Saul said to David, You are not able to go against the Philistines to fight with him: for you are only a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
But I say to you, brothers, keep the word of encouragement, for I have been writing to you in some words.
And David and his men, about six hundred, got up from Keilah, and went to wherever they were able to go. And Saul said to Saul, David had come out of Keilah, and he went out.
And they gave orders to the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and go to the vine-gardens.
And Saul said, They took them from Amalek, because the people had pity on the best of the flock and the herd, to make offerings to the Lord your God, and to the rest of those who were still living.
And put an ephod on it and put it in his town in the town of Ophrah; and all Israel took the harlot after it, and it became a net for the king and his house.
And he will take your men-servants and your women-servants and your young men and your asses and put them to his work.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and took it to Jerusalem, and put him in his tent.
Today you have said that you have done good to me, how the Lord put me in your hand, and you did not put me to death;
And on the day when the Philistines came to take away the goods of the dead, they took Saul and his three sons on Mount Gilboa.
And Jonathan said to him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be cut off.
Now even the first agreement had the rules of God and his holy place, and the holy place of this world.
For God is my witness, how much I have long through you all in the body of Jesus Christ.
And as for me, and I say, See, the Lord is between you and me for ever.
And I took my wife, cutting her in pieces, and sent her through all the land of Israel, because they had done evil and foolish in Israel.
So on the day after the people went out into the field, Abimelech said to Abimelech,
And the Lord said to him, Peace be to you: do not be troubled, for you will not be put to death.
And Abigail came quickly, and took two hundred cakes, and two cups of wine, and five sheep, and five measures of dry meal, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them on asses.
And early in the morning the man got up, opening the door to the place he had begun; and, behold, his wife was put before the door with her hands on the doorstep.
And he said to her, What is his form? And she said, An old man comes up, covered with a robe. And when Saul saw that it was Samuel, he bent with his face to the earth and made himself low.
And if this people were in my hands, I went back to Abimelech. And he said to Abimelech, Give up your army and come out.
Now the law of the priests was among the people, when he had given a meal offering, and the priest's servant came before him, with a hand of three teeth in his hand;
And they got up and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the waste land of Maon, on the south side of the waste.
And he and all his people with him went up into a mountain with him; and he took an axe, cutting down the branches of a tree, put it on his back, and took it, and said to his friends, Whatever you see, do it.
And he went in and made a male goat, and an ephah of the best meal without leaven; he put the meat in a basket, and put it in a vessel; and he took it to the place of the great tree, and came near.
And laughing went to the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into his hands.
And Samuel said to all the people, Have you seen him whom the Lord has chosen? for there is no one like him among all the people. And all the people said, Long live the king.
And the Edomite, who was by the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub.
And David took the spear, and the water of water at Saul's head, and they went away, and there was no seeing, and there was no one to be seen, for all of them were sleeping, because the Lord had gone on them.
And the sons of Dan went away: and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he went back to his house.
And you have made images of your goods and images of your disgusting things which are evil in the land, and have given honour to the God of Israel: it will be clear to the God of Israel, and he will make clear his hands from you and from your gods and from your land.
But if you do evil, you will be cut off, you and your king.
So go up by night, you and the people who are with you, and be put in flight in the field.
Now when the time of Michal, the daughter of Saul, had been given to David, she gave birth to the wife of Bath-lah.
And he said, You have taken away my gods which I have made, and the priest, and have gone away: what have I done? how will you say to me, What is your trouble?
For all the words which were given by Moses, by Moses, all the people, took the blood of the ox and the goats, with water and red wool and hyssop, and all the people of the book, and all the people.
And they took the man whom he had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to the town of Laish, to a people quiet and quiet, and put them to death with the sword, and they burned the town with fire.
And the children of Ammon made war against Israel, and the chiefs of Gilead went to get out of the land of Tob.
But the hand of the Lord was hard on the people of Ashdod, and he put an end to them and put them to death, with the cutting of Ashdod and its outskirts.
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Micah.
And the angel of God said to him, Take the meal, and the unleavened cakes, and put them on this rock, and let the soup be put over it. And he did so.
But you have knowledge of his experience, that as a child with a father he was working with me for the good news.
And he was still in the body of his father when he came to him.
Then David got up and went out of the hole, crying out after Saul, saying, My lord the king: and when Saul saw him, he put his face on his face to the earth and gave him honour.
And the children of Israel were troubled, so that the children of Israel were crushed for eighteen years; and all the children of Israel were crushed on the other side of the Jordan in the land of the Amorites in Gilead.
And David said, O Lord, the God of Israel, let your servant have news of this news, that Saul went to Keilah, to destroy the town for my sake.
How much more will you judge him who has been under foot the Son of God, and has taken the blood of the agreement with which he was made holy, and has made sport of the Spirit of grace?
Be on your care, brothers, that there may be a evil heart among you, that you may be turned from the living God.
And the Spirit of the Lord will come on you, and you will have news with them, and you will be turned into another man.
And there was a young man from Beth-lehem in Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite; and there he was living there.
And they overcame the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people were very feeble.
For if a man sees his hater, will he let him go well? why is the reward of the Lord for you that you have done to me this day?
And Samuel said to him, The Lord has put the kingdom of Israel away from you this day, and has given it to a neighbour of yours.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, with which Abimelech had made payment for nothing and for the light, who went after him.
And all the evil men of Shechem gave their heads to their heads, and the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerub-baal.
For this cause, taking an effect to the kingdom, we have grace; by which we are to be servants of God, with fear and fear.
We have an altar for which they have no right to take food for the House.
Then Saul came to Samuel in the doorway, and said, Let me say, Where is the house of the prophet?
But my upright one will have faith in his faith; and if he is in his heart, my soul is not pleased with him.
But a man gave witness to another, saying, What is man, that you keep him in mind, or the son of man, that you care for him?
He makes the poor go out of the dust, lifting up the poor from the dust, to make them come with rulers, and take the seat of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has put the earth on them.
And he said to her, Put yourself in the door of the Tent, and it will be, when any man comes and says to you, Is there any man here? that you may say, No.
And he said to him, We are going from Ephrathah to the hill-country of Ephraim, and from there I will go to Beth-lehem in Judah, and I will go to the house of the Lord, and no one takes me into his house.
And man said to his wife, We will certainly be put to death, because we have seen God.
And when David came back from the death of the Philistines, Abner took him and took him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
Cursed be the Lord, says the Lord, cursing and cursing the people: for they did not come to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord among the great.
And Saul and Jonathan, his son, and the people who were living with them, were living in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the Philistines had put up their tents at Michmash.
She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand for the hammer of the workman; and when she came to Sisera and crushed his head, she was broken and wounded.
And you are to give ear to what they say, and then your hands will go down into the tent-circle. Then he went down with his servant stretched out his servant to the end of the armed men who were in the tent-circle.
The Lord has gone up to Saul to the town of Gibeah, saying, Is not David in secret places with us in the woodland, in the tall woods, in the high place of the waste place?
And Samuel gave orders to him, and put nothing from him, saying, It is the Lord; let him do what seems good to him.
And David said, What have I done now? is there no cause for a cause?
Are they not all the work of the spirits of the earth? are they not able to give them the property of salvation?
And it came about that when the Philistines got up and came near David, David quickly went in flight and went to the army to see the Philistines.
And when she saw that he had made clear to her all his heart, she sent for the chiefs of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he has given me all his heart. And the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her and put up the money in their hands.
And of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were men of war.
And the chiefs of Issachar, after their birth, said, Issachar and Issachar, let him go into the valley; and in the divisions of Reuben, in the divisions of the children of Reuben.
And what more do I say? For the time has come to me, when I have given up the words of war, and the words of war, and the horn, and the wise, and the flower, and David, and Samuel, and the prophets:
So then, let the men and the waste men, who are in Gibeah, let us put them to death and take away this evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not give ear to the voice of their brothers, the children of Israel.
He who did not keep the law of Moses without mercy, by two or three witnesses, will be put to death;
And the women gave answer to one another, and said, Saul has overcome his thousands, and David's ten thousands.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
Now when he came to the place of the bone, and the Philistines were crying out to him, the spirit of the Lord came strongly on him, and as the flax was burning by fire, so the bands of the band were broken and made free.
And in the days of his flesh, when he had made prayer and mercy for mercy, weeping and weeping to him who was able to keep him from death, and had been hearing of his fear,
And he took care of his glory, and the image of his wealth, and made all things by the word of his power, when he had made a sin-offering and was seated on the right hand of the king on high.
And when Saul and all Israel had news of the words of the Philistines, they were troubled and full of fear.
And the man got up to go away; but his father-in-law made a request for him, and he was there again.
And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner was the father of Salmon,
And the men of Gilead said to one another, Who is the man who is fighting against the children of Ammon? for he is the head of all the people of Gilead.
Only fear the Lord, and keep him with all your heart, because he has done great things for you.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah and went after the Philistines and overcame them, till they came to the town of Beth-hoglah.
I have made a request to you, so that I may be given back to you.
For not one of his own, but only to one another.
And David went out from his carriage in the care of the carriage, and went in flight to the army; and he came and saw his brothers.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Why are you weeping? Why have you not got up? Why is your heart sad? am it not I better to you than ten sons?
And for forty years, for forty years, was it not with those who did evil, whose bodies were burned in the waste land?
And they went back and went in flight to the rock of Rimmon, to the rock of Rimmon; and they took five thousand men in the roads, after going after them, and put to death two thousand men.
And as for me, so far is it from me, that I might give sin to the Lord, to make prayer for you: I will give you teaching in the good and upright way.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
But we see Jesus, who made some less less than angels because of the punishment of death, crowned with glory and glory; so that by the grace of God he would give death to all things.
And now, as your life was precious in my eyes this day, let my life be great in the eyes of the Lord, and let him give me salvation from all trouble.
And make an altar to the Lord your God on the top of this high place, in order, and take the second ox, and make a burned offering with the wood of the Asherah which you may be cut down.
And Samuel said to Saul, Go, and I will make clear to you what the Lord has said to me tonight. And he said to him, Say.
And now, take a new cart, and take two young cows, on which a yoke has not gone up, and have put up the oxen in the cart, and let their young men go back to the house.
And they went out before the men of Shechem and made war with Abimelech.
Why, then, holy brothers, take part in the place of heaven, give thought to the Apostle and the high priest of our faith, Jesus;
And Jesse said to his son David, Take, I pray for your brothers, this ephah of dry and these ten cakes, and send them quickly to the tent-circle to your brothers.
But if you do not give ear to the voice of the Lord, and you are turned against what the Lord says, then the hand of the Lord will be against you as it was against your fathers.
And see, and see, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dance, then come out of the vine-gardens and take away his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And David said to the Hittites, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul to the tent-circle? And Abishai said, I will go with you.
For he was waiting for the building of the town, and of the power of God.
And Jonathan said to David, Whatever you desire I will do for you.
In the same way, in the knowledge of God, the heritage of the undertaking of the undertaking of the undertaking of God,
For it is not for the blood of the ox or of the goats to take away sins.
But the hand of the Lord was hard on them of Ashdod, and he sent destruction on them and put them to death, even Ashdod and its outskirts.
Then Saul said to the Lord, the God of Israel, Give ear to the right. And Jonathan and Saul were marked out, but the people got away.
There is no man secret from his eyes, but all things are without clothing; and in the sight of the man we are to give an account.
And if you are in fear to go down, go down, you and your young man, to the tent-circle.
And the king said to her, Have no fear; for what do you see? And the woman said to Saul, I see a god coming up from the earth.
And after the war-carriages and the tents, they went after the sword, and all the tents of Sisera were falling by the sword; there was no one left.
And Samuel the child took care of the Lord before his name, and the word of the Lord was dear in those days, and there was no vision in the vision.
Not that I am looking for the present, but for the fruit which is increased for you.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of Saul was Abner, the son of Ner, the father of Saul.
For I have no one to do with the same mind, so that you may have respect for you.
But I have faith in the Lord, that I, even myself, will come quickly.
And the men came in, and saw the images on the bed, and the bands of goats, and their bands.
Not in the agreement which I made with their fathers, in the day of my taking by their hands, to take them out of the land of Egypt: because they did not keep my agreement, and I had no respect for them, says the Lord.
And Samuel was put to rest till the morning, opening the doors of the house of the Lord; and Samuel was honoured to give birth to the vision.
And they said to him, Come and be our ruler, and fight against the children of Ammon.
May the Lord be judge, and give decision between me and you, and let my cause be clear to my cause, and take me out of your hands.
At the end of all the children of Gilead, they went together with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead overcame Ephraim, because they said, You are safe from the children of Ephraim among the children of Ephraim and among the children of Manasseh.
To the chief of the chief, and to the church of the first, which are recorded in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the upright made perfect;
Grace be with you all.
So that we may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us and go out before us, and fight our battles.
So David gave thought to the Lord again. And he said to him, Get up, and go to cedar-wood; for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
And Samuel said to Saul, Go, let me say what the Lord has said to me this night. And he said to him, Say on.
And Deborah was living under the palm-tree of Tamar, between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for a decision.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the chiefs of the Philistines were there; and on the roof of the house there were about three thousand men and women, looking at the time of sport.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel away, and let it go back to its place, so that it may not be put to death and our people. For there was a great waste in all the town, and the hand of God was very hard.
And the children of Israel did not keep the memory of the Lord their God, who kept them safe from all their haters round about.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Why are you weeping? Why have you not got up? Why is your heart sad? am I not better to you than ten sons?
Then all the children of Israel went out, and the people came together, from Dan to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, to the Lord at Mizpah.
Who will give ear to you in this way? for he who goes down to the fight, so his part is to be the one who has the property, and he is to be one of the same.
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, and we will not be put to death: for all our sins are turned against us for a king.
And Judah went against the Canaanites who were living in Hebron ( now the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba); and they put to death Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai and Talmai.
And when he had made an end of talking, he put his face away from his hands, and he sent that place for Ramah.
Be true to all men, and be holy, without any man to see the Lord.
And the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand war-carriages, and six thousand horsemen, and a great number of people, as the sand on the sea for number: and they went up and put up their tents in Michmash, east of Beth-aven.
Let your love be for love.
And the master of Ehud went away from waiting, and went past the images, and got away safely.
And David went up from there, and was living in the towns of En-gedi.
For we have knowledge of him who says, Vengeance is my, I will give punishment, says the Lord: and again, The Lord will judge his people.
But now he has the greater part of the grace which has been given to him, and how much more he is the relation of a true agreement which has been made well by the word.
And you will be clothed with clothing, and they will be changed: but you are the same, and your years will not be wasted.
You have seen the earth, O Lord; and the heavens are the works of your hands.
And Saul said to God, Have I go down after the Philistines? will you give them into the hands of Israel? And he gave him no answer on that day.
And David said to the men who were waiting by him, What will be done to the man who takes away this Philistine, and takes away the shame of Israel? for who is this unclean Philistine, to make sport of the armies of the living God?
See and see, O my father, the skirts of your robe in my hand, that when I cut off the skirts of your robe, I would not put out my hand against you. See that there is no evil in my hand or wrongdoing or have I done wrong against you: but you are waiting for my life, to take it away.
But the Spirit of the Lord went away from Saul, and the spirit of the Lord was troubled by the Lord.
And his father went down to the woman; and Jonathan, the son of Barachel, made a feast there, for so the young men were doing.
So let it be, when these signs have come to you, so that you may do what is right for the cause; for God is with you.
For there was a House made: the first, where was the lights, and the table, and the holy bread, which is named the holy place.
And they gave orders to the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and be waiting in the vine-gardens.
And war went out before the men of Shechem, and made war with Abimelech.
So be to take care of yourselves, take no wine or strong drink, and do not take any unclean thing.
And there was a man from the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Micah.
And Saul made an oath to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord lives, no punishment will come to you for this.
And she said, O my lord, your soul is living. I am the woman who has been with you, to make prayer to the Lord.
And this is what you are to say to him who is living in peace: Peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have.
And he said to her, Take your place at the door of the Tent, and it will be if anyone comes and says to you, Is there any man here? that you may say, No.
But she did not go up, for she said to her husband, I will not go up till the child is taken, and I will send him before the Lord, and there will be for ever.
And David and his men came to the town, and saw burning offerings and their wives and sons and daughters and daughters.
And he said to him, Far be it from it, for you will not be put to death. See, my father will not do anything great or small, but he will give it to me: why then will my father keep secret anything from me?
For this cause Jesus has made a statement for himself to keep himself safe.
So that there may be any man who has sex relations with another man, or a man of shame, like Esau, who sold his birthright for one meal.
And David said to Saul, Let no man be in flight because of him, for he will go and fight against the Philistines.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to themselves, The Lord will be a witness between us, for we will do what you say.
And before they give up the fat for a burned offering, the servant of the priest came and say to the man who was offering, Give it to the priest, for he will not take food from you, but only open.
Do all things without talk and questions.
And David said to him, To whom have you come? And where are you? And he said, I am a servant of Egypt, a servant of the Amalekites, and my master went away from me, for three days I went down ill.
And the oil says to them, Have I come back from my wealth, by which they make gods of gods and men, so that I have gone wandering on the trees?
We have an altar for which they have no right to take the work of the House.
Not that I am looking for the offering, but I am looking for the fruit which is overflowing to you.
At the sound of those who separate the flock among the watering places, they will make clear to the upright acts of the Lord, and the upright acts for his men in Israel: and the Lord went down to the doors.
By faith they went through the Red Sea, through the dry land; and the Egyptians were troubled by them.
And the children of Benjamin were unable to go out of the towns of Gibeah, and they gave them a great number of men who put the sword to death.
And at the time of the giving of Michal, the daughter of Saul to David, she was given to Adriel the Meholathite.
And he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and went through the land of envy, but they did not find them; and they went through the land of the valley, and there they were not there. Then he went through the land of Benjamin, but they did not find them.
And on the seventh day they said to the wife of Jonathan, the son of the Buzite, that he may say to us the story, or we will be burning you and your father's house with fire: have you given us a curse? is it not so?
And the sons of Benjamin said, They are put to death before us as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight and take them away from the town to the roads.
And David said to Abimelech, the Hittite, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, Who went down with me to Saul to the tent-circle? And Abishai said, I am going down with you.
Now the Philistines had come together with their armies to make war, and put up their tents in the land of Judah, and put up their tents between them and Azekah.
And the Spirit of the Lord will send great numbers on you, and you will be prophets with them and will be turned into another man.
And Enoch was a witness to Enoch, that he might not see death, but was not seen, because God had given orders to him: for before his death he gave witness to God.
The best of your fields and your vine-gardens and your olive-trees he will give to his servants.
And she said, Let your servant find grace in your eyes. And the woman went her way and did not see her face as before.
And they overcame the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people were very feeble.
And they went away from the Lord, the God of their fathers, who had taken them out of the land of Egypt: and they went after strange gods, and the gods of the people living round about them, worshipping them: and they made the Lord angry.
And I will take away their sins and their wrongdoing no more.
And they said to Saul, See, the people have done evil against the Lord, in order that they may take food with the blood. And he said, You have been broken, and have been a great stone to me this day.
And all this people will be certain that the Lord will not be able to give the sword or the spear, for the Lord is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.
At the time of her death they said, Have no fear, for you have given birth to a son. But she did not answer or give ear.
For where there is no end and agreement, there is to be the death of him who made it.
And they gave orders to the children of Benjamin, saying, Go in flight in the vine-gardens.
And at that night the Lord said to him, Take the young ox which is to your father, and the second ox for seven years; and put down the altar of Baal which is to your father, and the holy place which is by it.
And when you go from me today, let two men go with Rachel's resting-place in the land of Benjamin, at the edge of Benjamin, and they will say to you, The asses are seen which you went looking for, and your father has sent the news of the asses, saying, What am I to do for my son?
And she said, O my lord, your soul is living, my lord, I am the woman who has been there to make prayer to the Lord.
And you have said this day that you have done well with me, because the Lord has given me up into your hands; you have not put me to death.
For it has been made him, for whom all things are, and through him all things, who had given great children into glory, to complete the God of his salvation, by his passion.
And the five men went to the land of Laish, saying to their brothers, Have you seen that there is in these houses an ephod and false gods and pictured image and metal image? and now, see what you are doing.
Because it was necessary to undergo trouble for the people of God, than to have the desire of sin.
And I put my faith in the Lord, that I will quickly come.
But I was glad in the Lord, so that now at the last your care was increased, and in which you were taking care of it, but it was necessary for you.
Because of them he says, See, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will make a new agreement with the children of Israel and the house of Judah:
But the people, the men of Israel, made themselves strong, and put their position in position in the place where they had had the first day.
And I said, Now the Philistines have come down to me to Gilgal; and I have no pity on the face of the Lord; and I have taken care of myself and make the burned offering go up.
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go away, get you down from the Amalekites, or I will send you to destruction with them: for you have given mercy to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites went away from the Amalekites.
But now they desire to say, A land of heaven; for this reason God is not shamed to be named their God, for he has made ready for them a town.
And there came an old man from his work out of the field, and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he was living in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamin.
And when their heart was glad, they said, Call for the son of Jonathan, and he will make sport of us. And they sent for Jonathan, the son of Saul, who was in prison, and they put him in position between the pillars.
But I have all things in full measure and in full measure; I am full, but I have taken away the things from you, a sweet smell, an offering pleasing to God.
For this reason Jesus has made a great agreement for himself.
But our life is in heaven; from where we are looking for the salvation of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Now there was no man in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make war or spears.
And he said, It is peace: I have come to give offerings to the Lord, be holy, and come with me to the offering; and he made a holy name for the name of Jesse and his sons, and gave them to the peace-offerings.
And the chiefs of the Philistines went by hundreds, and thousands of thousands; and David and his men went on on the back.
For still a little while; and he who is coming will come and will not be slow.
And in the hearing of the people, say, Whoever is in fear and in fear, let him go back and go away from the hill-country of Gilead. And twenty-two thousand of the people went back, and ten thousand were kept.
And the men of the town said to Joash, Take your son out so that he may be put to death, for he has taken down the altar of Baal and cut down the image of Asherah which was near it.
And you will go on from there, and go to the great tree of Tabor, and let three men go up to God, to Beth-el, one taking three young goats, and three cakes of bread, and another taking a bottle of wine.
And they put him in the land of his heritage in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, north of Mount Gaash.
And when it came to David, when David had news that Saul had put to death the priests of the Lord,
In those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did what was right in his eyes.
By faith we see that the world is made by the word of God, so that what has been seen were not made of what is seen.
And the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand war-carriages and six thousand horsemen, as numerous as the sand on the sea. And they came up and put up their tents at Michmash, east of Beth-aven.
Now when he had given an end to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his soul.
The Lord has given up the chiefs of Midian, the chief of Oreb, and the chiefs of Oreb: what have I done as you have done? And when he had said this, their spirit was moved against him.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come, and be king over us.
And Jesse said to his son David, Take for your brothers an ephah of this waste grain, and these ten cakes, and take them quickly to the tent-circle to your brothers;
And the men of Ashdod got up early on the day, and they saw their faces of Dagon on the earth before the ark of the Lord; and they took their place of Dagon and put it back to its place.
And Jesse gave birth to him, and said, No one has the Lord's selection.
And Jair came to death and was put to death in the earth.
And those things which you have knowledge of, and have given ear and hearing and seen in me, do it; and the God of peace will be with you.
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Do not stop crying to the Lord our God for us, that he will keep us safe from the Philistines.
For if the first agreement had been without leaven, it would not be made for a second time.
And Jotham went away and went away and went to Beer-sheba, and there he was living there because of his brother Abimelech.
Looking hard, so that any man may have a desire for the grace of God, or any root of bitter feelings come up to make clear, and by it a great will be made unclean.
Now of the things which we have said this is the number of the high priest who put on the right hand of the seat of the king in heaven;
But after the veil, a holy tent, is holy.
And Saul said to David, You are not able to go against the Philistines to fight with him; for you are only a child, and he is a man of war from his earliest years.
And they overcame the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people were very feeble.
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for we have made an oath in the name of the Lord, saying, May the Lord be between me and you, and between my seed and your seed for ever. And he got up and went away, and Jonathan went into the town.
And at the end of two months she went back to her father, who had done with her as he had made a vow, and she was a virgin in Israel.
And on the seventh day he said, On the seventh day God has rest from all his works.
And David got up and went away that day from before Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
Now the children of Benjamin had news that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell us, how was this evil done?
The lion and the bear of your servant are the fate of your servant, and the fear of the Philistines is like one of them: for he has made sport of the orders of the living God.
And David went out to the place where Saul sent him, and he was wise; and he put him over the men of war, and it was good in the eyes of all the people, and in the eyes of Saul's servants.
And David said, The Lord has given me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the mouth of the child; and he will give me salvation from the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said to David, Go, and the Lord will be with you.
And she said to them, I and my people were making war with the children of Ammon; I sent you, but you did not give me up from their hands.
And Micaiah said to him, Where have you come? And he said to him, I am a Levite in the land of Judah, and I go to the land where I am living.
And David came to Saul and took his place before him; and he was dear love for him, and made him his arms.
And they took their bones and put them to death under the tree in Jabesh, and without food for seven days.
And Joash said to all who were near him, Will you make a decision against Baal? or will you give him salvation? let him be put to death while it is still in the morning. If he is a god, let him make a request for himself, because they have broken down his altar.
Where the war-carriages were put to death, and the army of the haters was choked, and the decisions of the Lord were made clear, and his love for the strong men of Israel: then the people of the Lord went down to the doors, and took the kingdom.
Then said the trees to the vine, Come, rule over us.
And the three horns sounded the horns, and the rods were broken, and the lights were lifted up in their hands, and the horns were on their right hands with the sound of their hands; and they said, The sword of the Lord and of the Lord's house.
And the army of the Philistines went out and went forward in flight.
And David had news in the waste land, which the man of Nabal had gone to shear his sheep.
And they had no memory of the Lord their God, and gave them into the hands of Sisera, the head of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab, and they were fighting against them.
For if the word has been made clear by angels, and all the wrongdoing and wrongdoing have been given a right reward,
But this one, when he had offered a sin-offering for ever, took his seat at the right hand of God,
But to do good and to take no memory of it, because God is pleasing to him.
But of the Son he says, Your seat, O God, is for ever and ever: the rod of righteousness is the rod of your kingdom.
And crying out to the children of Dan, they turned their faces and said to Micah, What is your business, that you go with such a company?
And that night the Lord said to him, Take the young ox which your father has, the second ox of seven years old, and put down the altar of Baal which your father has, and cut down the Asherah, which is by it;
And Saul sent to David again, saying, Take him to me in the bed, so that he may be put to death.
Gilead had rest on the other side of Jordan, and Dan went to Tarshish; Asher was living on the sea, and there were living in the valley.
And they put away the strange gods from among them, worshipping the Lord; and his soul was troubled for the evil of Israel.
And David said to Saul, Your servant was taking care of his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a little child, and took a lamb out of the flock.
And they said, What is the sin which we send back to him? and they say, The number of the chiefs of the Philistines, five gold, and five of gold, for one disease for you and your rulers,
Who will put the body of our shame to the body of his glory, to the body of his glory, for the working of his power, to give to himself all things.
And Abdon, the son of Dodai, the Pirathonite, was put to death in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
So let us, as many as are perfect, let us be in mind; and if you do not have any sense, God will make clear to you.
And his mother, looking out of the window, cries out loud: and she says from the table, Why is his carriage so long in coming back? why are the feet of his horses so slow?
And the blessing of Elkanah and the wife of his wife said, May the Lord give you seed of this woman for the request of the Lord. And they went to their place.
If any man is able to be able to get his life back to the dead,
And they said to the men of Jabesh-gilead, This is what you are to say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, To the day when the sun is burning, you will have rest. So the men came and gave news to the men of Jabesh-gilead, and they were glad.
And they gave him a cake of figs, and two cakes of raisins; and he gave him life, because he had no food for three days and for three nights.
And the thorns say to the trees, If you have made me king over you, come, take your place safe in my shade; and if not, fire comes from the thorns, and burning the cedars of Lebanon.
And David put them to death from the evening even till evening; and there was not a man of them, and there were four hundred young men, horsemen on camels and running away.
And when they came, he saw Eliab and said, Truly the Lord's selection is before him.
And David went after him, and he and four hundred men, with two hundred men, who had been feeble enough to go over the river of decision.
And I pray that your love may be increased more and more knowledge and all knowledge;
And when the angel of the Lord had said these words to all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and were crying.
So that day the Lord made salvation to Israel, and the fighting went over on the other side of Beth-aven.
But David said, You are not to do so, my brothers, with these things, which the Lord has given us, who have kept us safe, and has given the violent men into our hands.
And the children of Benjamin did not take away the Jebusites, the people of Jerusalem; but the Jebusites were living with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
So the five men went away and came to the town of Laish, and saw the people who were in it, and they were living in a safe place after the Zidonians, quiet and safe: for there was no one in the land, and had authority over them, and they were far from the Zidonians, and had no use with any man.
And David's two wives were taken away, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
But the children of Benjamin, when they saw that they were feeble enough, was running away. And the children of Israel saw it, and put them in flight, so that they might come to the attack which had been made ready to go near the town.
And the sound of the horn and the sound of words, which they had given hearing that no word might be said to them.
And Samuel gave orders to the people of the kingdom, and put it in the book and put it before the Lord. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
For Israel had put themselves in position, and the Philistines who were against them were ready.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, and they overcame the three sons of Anak.
And when it is made clear to men to be put to death, and after this comes judges:
But Sihon had no faith in Israel to go through his land: but Sihon sent all his people together and put up their tents in Jahaz, attacking Israel.
And the Philistines were waiting on the mountain on one side, and the army of Israel was on the mountain on the other side of the valley.
And he made a great slaughter for them, and they put the ox's ox on the hollow, and went down in a hole in the rock of Etam.
And you will see an evil man in my place, with all the good things which will be done to Israel; and there will be no old man in your house for ever.
And the chiefs of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews here? And he said to the chiefs of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or these years, and I have not had any wrong in him since he came to this day?
Not that I am looking for offerings; but I am searching for your account.
And the lords of the Philistines gave her seven green plants, which had not been dry, and she put him in chains with them.
And the sound of the horn and the voice of words, which those who had ears of hearing would not be said to them,
And he did not need any day, as the high priests, to make offerings, first for his sins, and for the people's sin; for this he did, when he made himself ready.
And you will go down before me to Gilgal; and see, I will come down to you, to give up burned offerings and peace-offerings to peace-offerings: seven days you will be waiting till I come to you and make clear to you what you are to do.
And Saul made request to the Lord, but the Lord gave him no answer, not by dreams or by the Urim or by the prophets.
And the Holy Spirit gave orders to this, and the place was not made clear, while the first House was still standing.
And the towns which the Philistines had taken away from Israel went back to the children of Israel from Ekron to Gath; and Israel gave their land out of the hand of the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And they said to him, The son of Jonathan is here. They came round about him, and were waiting for him all night in the town's town, and were quiet all the night, saying, Be quiet till morning, and we will put him to death.
But the angel of the Lord did not come to another man, or to his wife, for he had knowledge that he was the angel of the Lord.
And say to him, See, you have become old, and your sons have not gone in your ways: now let us make a king for us, judging us, like all the nations.
The memory of it was not pleasing to you.
And God turned back the evil of Abimelech which he had done to his father to put to death his seventy brothers;
For truly he had a desire for you all, and was sad because you had news that he was ill.
And in this place again, if they come into my rest.
And to those in Aroer, and in the sixth parts of the bath,
And the chiefs of Israel came to rest in Israel; and when it came to the end, it came to shame, when I got up a mother in Israel.
And Samuel went up from Gilgal to the town of Benjamin; and Saul numbered the men who were with him, about six hundred men.
For if he was on the earth, he would not be a priest, and he saw that there were priests who gave offerings in the law.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David go before me, for he has seen grace in my eyes.
Because of the sin of false gods, and of the disgusting things of false gods, and of false gods, because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, he has sent you away from you.
Now let not my blood be dropped to the earth from before the Lord: for the king of Israel has come out to search for a bird, as when a bird puts a bird in the mountains.
And the men of Ziph came to Saul in the town of Geba, saying, See, David is there in the hill country of the country, over against the waste land.
And David got up, he and his men, and put to death from the Philistines two hundred men; and David took their cords and gave them to the king, so that he might be the son-in-law of the king. And Saul gave him Michal, his daughter, to wife.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines put to death Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And I put my hope in the Lord Jesus to send you quickly to you, so that I may be of good spirits, having knowledge of the things about you,
And Saul said, Give ear, O son of Ahitub. And he said, Here I am, my lord.
And when David had news of the dead of the dead, he said, May the Lord give praise to the Lord, who has put the cause of my shame from the hand of the sinner, and has kept his servant from evil: for the Lord has given birth to the evil-doing of the sinner on his head. And David sent and said to Abigail, to take her to him.
Now when Saul had news that David had been uncovered, and the men who were with him, Saul was living in Gibeah in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were waiting for him.
And Saul put up their tents in the hill-country of Ararat, which is before the waste land. But David was living in the waste land, and he saw that Saul came after him into the waste land.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines to them, and said, What may we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken to Gath; and they took the ark of the God of Israel about there.
The Lord has done this and much more to Jonathan; but if it is pleasing to my father to do you evil, then I will send you away, so that you may go in peace; and the Lord will be with you as he has been with my father.
And he said to them, Come after me, for the Lord has given the Moabites the Moabites into our hands. And they went down after him and took on the cross of the Jordan in the direction of Moab, and no one went over.
And David went in secret in the field; and it was the new moon, and the king was seated at table.
And the news said, Israel has gone in flight before the Philistines, and there has been a great slaughter of the people: and your two sons, and their heads, and their tents, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And they will give you their love and give you two loaves of bread, which you will get from their hands.
But we see Jesus, for a short time was made lower than the angels, because of the glory of death and glory, so that he might give death to all men.
And the son of Joash went to attack Baal, and put his living-place in his house.
May the Lord judge, and judge between me and you, and take note of my cause, and take me out of your hand.
And Saul had given Michal his daughter Michal, the wife of the daughter of David, to come to him from Gallim.
And the children of Israel, crying to the Lord, said, We have done wrong against you, because we have turned away from our God, and have given worship to the Baals.
Now the Lord had given orders to Samuel in his ears a day before Saul came, saying,
For a man's will be in a place where there is death; for it is not in the power of the man who made it life.
And now, give ear to the voice of your servant, and I will give you a bit of bread and food, and there will be in you power when you go in the way.
Now there was a man in Israel, when a man went to get directions from God, and he said, Come and let us go to the prophet: for he who is now named a prophet was before God.
And when he came into his house, he took a knife and took his wife, and took her, together with her bones, and sent her into all the country of Israel.
In the fear of the faith which was not seen by the faith of Noah, by the fear of the glory of his seed, by the fear of his seed, by the fear of his seed, he gave effect to the purpose of the righteousness of righteousness.
How much more, if the people had given food to this day of the goods of their haters which they had seen? now there was no great destruction among the Philistines.
And every man of Israel came together to the town, with friends.
Their tents were to Zebah and Zalmunna, and their tents with them, about fifteen thousand, all those who were left of all the tents of the east; and those who were going to death came to war with a sword.
And the peace of God may be able to keep your hearts and hearts in Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, that the Philistines got up and went to see David; and David quickly went quickly and went to face the Philistines.
They will be cut off, and you will be kept, and all, as a robe, will become old.
And he took the people and put them in three bands, and put in flight in the field; and he saw the people coming out of the town; and he got up against them and overcame them.
And he put them to death from Aroer, and from Minnith, and from Aroer, and on the fields of the vine-gardens, a very great number; and the children of Ammon were made low before the children of Israel.
See, now, as you have been living in my eyes today, so let my soul be honoured in the eyes of the Lord, and let him give me salvation from all deceit.
And she sent for her, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said to him, Has not the Lord, the God of Israel, gave orders to you? Go, go on Mount Tabor and ten thousand men of the sons of Naphtali and Zebulun.
And David said, Will the rulers of Keilah take me and my men into the hands of Saul? And the Lord said, They will keep you safe.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he who said, Will Saul be king over us? Give the men to us, and we will put them to death.
So that day the Lord made salvation to Israel, and the fighting went by Beth-aven.
Be free from the love of money; be content with such things as you have: for he has said, I will never be able to be wise in you, and I will not let any wise go from you.
And she said, The glory has been taken away from Israel, for the ark of God is taken.
And Jonathan said to David, Come, let us go out into the field; and they went out into the field.
And David had faith in David, saying, He has given his people Israel to shame, and he will be my servant for ever.
From where he is able to give salvation to those who come near him to God, to make prayer for them.
And the men of the town said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweet is better than honey, and what is stronger than a lion? And he said to them, If you had not been ploughing with my cow, you had not seen my knowledge.
And he took the responsible men of the town, and thorns of the waste land and thorns; and with them he gave teaching to the men of Succoth.
And one of the young men said, See, I have seen a son of Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem, a man of war, and a man of war, and a man of war, and a wise man, and a wise man, and the Lord is with him.
For when God made a promise to Abraham, because he had no greater word by himself, he made an oath by himself:
For take note of him who has undergone the evil of sinners against himself, so that you may not get tired, because of your souls.
And he went out, and his servants came in, and saw, and, behold, the doors of the room were shut up, and they say, He is only covered his feet in the inner room of the wall.
And when he had said these words, he put his face from his hands, and that place was named Ramah.
And he said to his servant, A good man is good. Come, let us go. And they went to the town where the man of God was.
And I said to you, See, the Lord is between you and me for ever.
For this is the agreement which I will make with the children of Israel, says the Lord, after those days, says the Lord, and in their hearts I will send them in writing, and I will be to them for a God, and they will be to me for a people.
Whose voice the earth was moved, and now he gave an oath, saying, I am shaking not only the earth, but the heaven.
But she did not go up, for she said to her husband, I will not go till the child is taking care of taking care of the child, till I may take him before the Lord, and may keep his life there.
And the light of God had not gone out, and Samuel was in the house of the Lord where the ark of God was.
And the children of Dan said to him, Let not your voice be heard among us, lest the spirit of destruction come on you, and give up your life and the life of your house.
And this man went up out of his town every year to worship and to make offerings to the Lord of armies in Shiloh: and the two sons of the Lord, the chief of the Levites, were there.
But I am writing to you, my brother, my brother, a worker of war, your servant, and my servant's servant.
Say to all the holy ones in Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said, Send all Israel to Mizpah, and I will make prayer to the Lord for you.
And the man, the man of the house, went out to them and said to them, No, my brothers, do not do evil; for this man has come into my house, and do not do this shame.
And he said, Why is my lord after his servant? what have I done? and what evil is in my hand?
And said to him, This is what is said, Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon;
And Saul said to his servants who took care of him, Give ear, O children of Benjamin; let the son of Jesse give every man of you fields and vine-gardens, and make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds;
And coming up and said to his father and his mother, I saw a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take her for me for a wife.
Do not let yourself be in mind to do good, for God is pleasing to God.
And they came together to Mizpah; and they got water and put it out before the Lord, and they went without food on that day, and said, We have done evil against the Lord. And the children of Israel have been judged at Mizpah.
And when it was given to Saul, he sent other men, and they were prophets; and Saul sent representatives again, and they were prophets.
You have loved righteousness and hate evil; so God, even your God, has given you the oil of joy over your friends.
And Saul took him on that day, and did not let him go back to his father's house.
And David said to Abishai, Do not put him to death: for who is able to put his hand on the king of the Lord, and will be free from him?
And the children of Judah went after war against the Canaanites who were living in the hill-country, and in the South and in the lowland.
So having a great high priest who has gone up into heaven, Jesus, the Son of God, let us keep our faith.
So that your pride may be increased in Christ Jesus with you again.
And all the men of Israel who had taken secret in the hill-country of Ephraim had news that the Philistines had gone away, and they went after them in the war.
And he said to his men, Far be it from me, O Lord; I do not do this thing to my lord, to the anointed of the Lord, to put out my hand against him for the Lord's selection.
So that we may be ready to go into that place, so that no one in the same way of the faith may be falling.
And he saw a new sharp ass of a ass, stretching out his hand and took it, and put to death a thousand men.
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the son of Reuel, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of the Lord in Shiloh, had the ephod; and the people did not see that Jonathan was gone.
And there was no saviour, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no use with any other man; and it was in the valley which is by Beth-Rehob, building the town and living in it.
And there was a young man of the town of Judah, of the family of Judah; and he was a Levite, and there was a man from a strange country.
And he said, You have taken away my gods which I have made for me and for the priest and for everything I have, and you say, What is your trouble?
Say, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, for it is better for you, that all the children of war, who are sixty and ten, have rule over you, or that one rule over you?
And there was a man named selection of Zebulun and Naphtali, and she went up with ten thousand men at his feet; and Deborah went with him.
And his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, kept him with him for three days; and they had food and drink, and they were waiting for the night.
And they gave him fifteen and ten shekels of silver out of the house of Baal, which Abimelech made for nothing and for the light, who went after him.
And the Philistines overcame and went no more into the land of Israel; and the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
For if we are conscious of the knowledge of the truth, there is no longer a sin for sin.
And Saul said to his servants, Come for me a certain woman, and I will go to her and get search of her. And his servants say to him, See, a woman has a certain spirit in En-dor.
And David went in flight from the town of Ramah, and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is my sin? and what is my sin before your father, so that he is looking for my life?
And the Lord gave them into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan, who was king in Hazor, the captain of Sisera, who was living in the direction of the nations.
For this reason let this be in you, which is in Christ Jesus:
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said to them, This time will I be without fear in the eyes of the Philistines, when I give them trouble.
And Saul said to the servants who were watching him, Give ear, O Benjamin; will the son of Jesse give you all the fields and vine-gardens? will he make all of you captains of thousands and captains of hundreds?
And God gave him a great name, and gave him a name over every name.
And she said, The Philistines are on you, O Lemuel. And he got up from his sleep and said, I will go out as at other times, and I will go out quickly. But he did not see that the Lord had gone away from him.
For the women took their dead back again, but others were troubled, not taking salvation, so that they might come again to life again.
And the servants of Saul said to him, See, we are waiting for you, a spirit of sorrow for God.
And it came to pass at that time, when he was put down in his place, his eyes became dark, so that he might not see.
And the word of the Holy Spirit was clearly seen, so that the way into the holy place was not made clear, while the first tabernacle was still standing.
And they came down from the high place into the town, talking with Saul on the house-house.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, was in front of it in those days, saying, Will I go again to war with the sons of Benjamin, my brother, or do I put an end? And the Lord said, Go up, for tomorrow I give him into your hands.
And he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and went through the land of Ararat, and they did not find it; and they went through the land of Ararat, and they were not; and he went through the land of Benjamin, and they had not seen it.
And he said to his young men, Go quickly, let the arrows which I have come to get: the young man is running, and he has put an arrow on him, causing to go over him.
And he said, Seventy kings, their hands and their great toes, and their great toes, are hanging under my table: as I have done, so God has done to me. And they took him to Jerusalem, and he was dead there.
And they were crying to the Lord, and said, We have done wrong, because we have gone away from the Lord, and have given worship to the Baals and the rod, and now give us out of the hand of our haters, and we will be your servant.
But he who has no family in his family has given him his blessing, and has given him his blessing.
For we have knowledge of him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will make payment, and again, the Lord will judge his people.
And they said to him, Make search for God, that we may see if our journey may be made well.
And the woman came and said to her husband, A man of God came to me, and his face was like the face of the angel of God, very great; and I made a request to him from where he was, and he gave me no news of his name.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, together with the overseers and servants.
And Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land; see that my eyes have become bright, because I had tasted a little of this honey.
And when the day of war came, there was no sword or spear in the hands of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan, but Saul and Jonathan his son.
So all those who were on the day of Benjamin were twenty-two thousand men who took the sword; all these were men of war.
Only of all sorts of food and drinking and all sorts of things which are used for the law till the time of taking things right.
Saul was old when he became king, and he ruled for two years over Israel.
When your fathers had put me in the test, tested me, and saw my works for forty years.
And twenty-three years old he was put to death; and he was put to death, and was put to death in the earth.
And the children of Dan went on their way; and when he saw that they were stronger than he, he went back to his house.
And he had thirty sons and thirty daughters, and he took thirty of them in thirty carriages for his sons, and seven years for Israel's death.
And Saul said, This is what you say to David: There is no pleasure to the king for a price, but in a hundred of the Philistines, to be given punishment on the haters of the king. And Saul thought to make David fall by the Philistines.
Are they not all the spirits of the spirits of the world, who are given birth for the purpose of salvation?
And Saul said, God do so and more; for you will certainly be put to death, Jonathan.
And they got up early the morning, and put their faces on the earth in front of the ark of the Lord; and they took their place of Dagon and put him in his place.
And he said, It is not right for you to keep the sword of the son of Joash, the son of Joash, who gave orders to Midian and all the army.
Now now, see the king whom you have chosen, and whom you have desired; and, See, the Lord has put a king over you.
And it was given to Saul, and he sent other men, and they were prophets; and Saul sent representatives again, and they were prophets.
And she said, I will go with you, but it will not be for your honour on the way which you are going: for the Lord will give the price of Sisera into the hands of a woman. And she got up and went with her face to Kedesh.
And Saul went down in his place on the earth, and was greatly troubled because of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had no need of bread all day or night.
So go back and go in peace, so that you do not do anything that is evil in the eyes of the Philistines.
And at Nob, the town of the priests, with the edge of the sword, men and women and children and babies, and oxen and asses and sheep, with the sword.
And the number of the men of Israel in Benjamin were four hundred thousand, ready for war: all these were men of war.
So that all of you have made designs against me, and there is no one who takes note of me when my son makes a agreement with the son of Jesse, and there is no one of you who has pity on me, and that my son has made my servant come up against me, as it is today.
And the man of the dead said to David's servants, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now a long time, every man of his master.
And David said to the Philistines, You come to me with a sword, with a spear and a spear; but I come to you in the name of the Lord of armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have made sport of.
For this cause I was very angry with that generation, and said, They are ever in their hearts, and they have no knowledge of my ways.
Then the Philistines came together and went and put up their tents at Ramah; and Saul came together to all Israel, and they put up their tents in Gilboa.
And say to the children of Israel, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I took Israel out of Egypt, and gave you salvation from the hand of the Egyptians and from all the kingdoms, and from those who were cruel to you.
And he got up and went after his wife, and he came to the man and said to him, Are you the man who had been talking to the woman? And he said, I am.
And she was waiting secretly in the inner room, and she said to him, The Philistines are on you, O Lemuel. And he took away the cords, and was broken like a rod, when it touched the fire, and his strength was not clear.
See, he is to take away the goods, and the beautiful of the women is marked out for him: the clothing of every kind of clothing is given to him, and the vessels of different sorts are made for the neck.
And he took him into his house and gave food to the asses; and they washed their feet and gave food and drink.
And the chiefs of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? And he said to the chiefs of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or for this time, and I have not seen him any wrong?
And the two wives of David were taken prisoner, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel;
And on the fourth day, when they got up early in the morning, he got up, and the father's father said to his son in the law, Give your heart a bit of bread, and then go your way.
And on the seventh day they said to the wife of Jonathan, the son of the Buzite, that he may say to us the story, or we will be burned with fire and your father's house: have you sent us to take that which we have? Is it not so?
And Saul said to David, Happy be you, my son David, working hard for you and overcome you. And David went on his way, and Saul went back to his place.
And they said, There is a heritage for those who have escaped from the tribe of Benjamin, and there is no division in Israel.
And now, I am certain that you will be king, and the kingdom of Israel will be in your hands.
And David sent out ten young men, and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel and go to the Carmelite, and give him my name.
And again, the Lord had been named by Samuel. And Samuel came to him, and said, Here am I, for you have called me. And he said, I have no name, my son, and have rest.
And the children of Israel went back from pursuing the Philistines, and took away their tents.
See, all of you, O children of Israel, give thought to your words and give it to me.
I give praise to my God for all memory of you.
And they said to them, See, he is before you; come quickly quickly, for he has come into the town today, because there is a meal for the people today at the high place.
Do not go from here, till I come to you, and take my offering and put it before you. And he said, I will be waiting till you come.
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost; and he said to Saul his son, Take one of the servants with you, and get up and get search for the asses, and go through the hill-country of Ephraim.
But Jonathan had no news when his father gave the people an oath, and he put out the rod which he had in his hand and put it in a honeycomb; and he put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were shining.
And they went up to the town; and when they came into the town, Samuel came out to them to go up to the high place.
For here we have no town, but we are looking for one to come.
For every house is made by men, but God who made all things is God.
And Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, cutting down the branches from the trees, took it up, put it on his shoulder, and said to the people who were with him, What you have seen me do, make haste, do as I have done.
But I have faith in the Lord, that I myself will come quickly.
And it was said to the captains of Gath, The son of Jonathan has come here, and they are waiting for him all night in the town, and keep quiet all night, saying, In the morning we will put him to death.
Let my joy be complete, so that you may be wise in the same way, having the same love in mind, thinking one thing;
And he says, But once more, he makes a sign of the things which are not made, so that those things may be kept safe.
And Jabez went out to the town of Sisera, and said to him, Come, my lord, be turned to me; fear not; and he went in to her into the tent, and covered him with a band.
And the house of Joseph saw that Beth-el was named Luz.
And David sent for the people and said to Abner, the son of Ner, Do you not give an answer, Abner? And Abner said, Who is you to say to the king?
Because he had a desire for you all, and was troubled because you had news that he was ill.
And as they went up the road to the town, they came to see the young women coming out to get water; and they said to them, Is the prophet here?
Take care of nothing; but in all things, by prayer and prayers, let your prayer be made known to God.
And they put the name of that place to the Lord, and there they made offerings to the Lord.
And now the king has gone before you: now I am old and grey, but my sons, see them; and I have gone before you from my youth till this day.
Then the men of the town said to Joash, Take your son, that he may be put to death, because he has put down the altar of Baal, and because he has cut down the Asherah which was by it.
And he said to them, This time I am without fear against the Philistines, though I do them wrong.
And Jonathan got up from the table in burning wrath, and did not take food on the second day of the month: for he was very sad for David, because his father had done him shame.
And the Lord said to the children of Israel, Did I not give you salvation from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
For there is no use in the word of righteousness, for he is a little child.
See, I am, give witness against me before the Lord, and before his selection: whose ox I took, and whose ass I took away? or who have I taken wrong? or who have I done wrong? or of whose hand I have put a hand on my eyes? and I will give it back to you.
And you will go on from there, and go to the great tree of Tabor, and there three men will go up to God to Beth-el, one taking three young goats, and three cakes of bread, and one taking a bottle of wine.
For see, you are to give birth and give birth to a son, and no razor will come on his head: for the child will be a separate man to God from the mother's body, and he will take Israel out of the hands of the Philistines.
And take him out of all the tribes of Israel, to be my priest, to give offerings on my altar, to make perfume, and to put it on the ephod before me: and I gave to the house of your father all the offerings by fire of the children of Israel.
Now as for Zebah and Zalmunna, with all the tents of the children of the east, all the people of Israel were fifteen thousand men; for there was a hundred and twenty thousand men of war.
If the order was given to them by the Levites, then the law was given to them: what need was there still that a different priest may get up in the order of Malchijah, and not the order of Aaron?
And the child came to the place where Jonathan had sent his arrows; and Jonathan said to the child, See, the arrow is greater than you.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to themselves, We are turning back to you now, so that you may go with us and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the people of Gilead.
And Jonathan got up from the table in burning wrath, and did not take food on the second day of the month, for he was sad for David, because his father had done him shame.
See not every man on his own ways, but every man on the things of others.
They turned away from the Lord, the God of their fathers, who took them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods from the gods of the people who were round about them, and gave worship to them, and they made the wrath of the Lord bitter.
And he took the number of them, three hundred thousand of the children of Israel, and thirty thousand.
And he said to the men of Peniel, In my turning back in peace I will be broken down.
And it was so; he got up early on the day and took away the wool from the wool and the drops of dew from the drops of water.
And when you have been waiting for three days, go down quickly, and come to the place where you have secretly been in your hands, and you will be safe from the stone of Ephraim.
And when they saw him, they took thirty men with him.
Now the teaching of the Holy Spirit was clearly clear to the most holy things, while the first tabernacle was still there.
And we desire that every one of you may be able to make the full measure of hope to the end.
And the trees said to the vine, You have come over us.
And David went from there to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother be with you, till I see what God will do for me.
And not by the blood of the goats and the calves, but in the blood of his blood he went into the holy place, having the eternal salvation for us.
So they made him the image of his image, which he made, and all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
Let my soul be full of joy, so that you may be wise in the same way, having the same love of one soul, making the same way to the same.
And they cut off his head, and took off his robe and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to give the news to the house of their gods and to the people.
Keep in mind the word of God, who has given you the word of God, whose faith is in the ways of their life;
And when the children of Israel saw this in the fight ( for the children of Benjamin had come in flight and went after them), they put to death thirty men of war.
And he said, O Lord, the God of Israel, why has it come to pass in Israel, so that there may be one tribe in Israel?
And David and Abishai came to the people by night, and saw that Saul was sleeping in the middle of the earth, and his spear stuck on the earth in his head; and Abner and the people were round about him.
And early in the morning Samuel came to Saul, and said, Saul has gone to the top of Carmel, and he has put up a pillar for himself. And he went over and went down to Gilgal.
Then Saul said to his servants, Take your sword and put me in the way with it, so that these uncircumcised men may come and send me through and make sport of me, but his arms will not come, for he was overcome with fear. So Saul took a sword and went down on it.
And if I have been offered on the offerings and in your faith, I am glad and full of joy with you all.
And they gave news to David, saying, See, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and they are crushing the grain-floor.
For we are the circumcision, who are the servants of God, and glory in Christ Jesus, not having faith in the flesh.
And Saul gave orders to his servants to say to David privately, See, the king's approval and all his servants have love for you. Now be the king's son in law.
O Lord, when you went out from Seir, when you went out of the land of Edom, the earth was shaking, and the heavens dropped, and the cloud dropped water.
And he said, Israel has gone in flight before the Philistines, and there has been a great attack among the people; and your two sons have been dead, the chief of the Hebronites, and Phinehas, and the ark of God.
And Saul, and all the men of Israel, in the valley of God, fought with the Philistines.
For the law of the law has made nothing without effect, and a good hope for the hope which we get near to God.
And David went after him, and he and four hundred men were waiting for two hundred men; for they had no need to go over the river.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the eyes of the Lord, who made war for Eglon against them, because they did evil in his eyes.
And laughing came to Mizpah to his house; and his daughter came out to see him with timbrels and dancing; and she was his only child, in addition to her son or daughter.
And she said to the son of Barachel, See, you have made sport of me, and have given me a word of deceit; give me a word of what you are able to do.
Now when the days of the grain-cutting were ended, the son of Jonathan came to his wife, and he took her a young goat for her. And when he had gone into her, her father would not let him go, saying,
But you have no memory of the comfort which has been said to you, My son, be not troubled by the Lord, or be troubled, being angry with him.
Now there was a man of Ramah, the chief of the hill-country of Ephraim, and Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Harhas, the son of Ephraim, the son of Ephraim.
And David went to the top of the mountain, and went up to the top of the hill, and the distance was great between them.
And the children of Elon, the family of Elon, died, and was put to rest in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
As to what we have said, I and you, see that the Lord is between me and you for ever.
And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, In this condition I will make it with you, that all your eyes may be put out, and all Israel will be shamed.
Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went to his house at Gibeah of Saul.
Then David got up and went out of the hole, crying out after Saul, saying, My lord the king! And when Saul saw him, he was bent with his face to the earth and was full of respect.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and there was a Levite living on the other side of the hill-country of Ephraim, who took a woman for himself out of Beth-lehem of Judah.
And Jonathan said to him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be turned away, because your seat is gone.
And others had knowledge of laughing and blows, and others of chains and put in prison.
And he made prayer to the Lord and said, O Lord, let the man of God come again to us, and give us teaching what we may do to the child who is to be born.
But to do good and to take no memory of it, because God is pleasing to him.
Then they got directions again from the Lord, and said, Did the man come here? And the Lord said, See, he is in secret places among the things.
So then, let not my blood come to the earth from before the Lord: for the king of Israel has gone out to get like a bird, like a bird in the mountains.
Have they not been seen? have they not taken the goods of the goods? A woman and two women are to every man: to Sisera and to Sisera, and to be made of red robes, and of coloured robes made of needlework, and of coloured robes, on the backs of the goods.
By faith we are certain that the heavens are made by the word of God, so that what is seen has not been made out of things which are seen.
And they gave up the Lord, and gave orders to Baal and to Ashtaroth.
And Manasseh forced out the people of Beth-shean and her towns, and Taanach and its daughter-towns, and the people of Dor and her daughter-towns, and the people of Ibleam and her towns, or the people of Megiddo and her towns; but the Canaanites were living in that land.
The name of God was a chief priest, after the order of Melchizedek.
And he went up from there, and said to them, As the men of Succoth said to him,
And he said, I have done wrong: but now I will give you honour before the chiefs of my people and Israel, and let me go again to the Lord your God.
For you are not coming to a mountain that might be touched, and that which was burned with fire and dark and dark and storm,
For you, O Lord, have put you in mind with the prisoners, and have put up your goods with joy, because you had knowledge that you had a better and a heritage for ever.
And Saul said to him, Whose son is you, young? And David said, I am the son of your father, the son of Jesse.
And his sons have not gone in his ways, and have turned away from the deceit of deceit, and take a reward and take away the punishment.
And the son of Ebed-melech said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we may serve him? is it not he, the son of Jerubbaal, and his captain, the men of Shechem, the father of Shechem?
Go now, I pray you, and see, and see his place, and see his place where he is, who has seen him there: for it is said to me that he is cruel.
Then the Lord gave up chiefs, and they gave them salvation from the hand of those who took them.
And she made her heart full of grief, and made prayer to the Lord, saying,
And Saul sent for all the army for the fight, to go down to Keilah, to make war against David and his men.
Take care for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and prayers, let your prayer be made clear to God.
And he made the tribe of Benjamin come near their families, and the family of the men of war was taken; and Saul, the son of Kish, was taken; and they were looking for him, but he was not to be seen.
Now when it was old, he had news of all that his sons had done to all Israel, and how they had connection with the women who had the work at the door of the Tent of meeting.
Now you have come up against my father's house, and have put to death his sons seventy men on one stone, and Abimelech, the son of his servant, king over Shechem, because he is your brother.
God, in the past past the prophets in times and in all ways,
And she said, Let your servant find grace in your eyes. So the woman went her way and gave her food, and her face was not sad.
By faith Abel gave a sin-offering to God, because of Cain, by which he had a witness of God, giving witness to his offerings; and by him he was dead still.
And that the brothers of the brothers, who put faith in the Lord through my chains, was greatly able to say the word of God without fear.
And Jesse sent his name to Abinadab and made him go by the way of Samuel; and he said, Even the Lord has not given effect.
Even though I have had faith in the flesh, if any man thinks that his faith is in the flesh, I am more.
And some of the Hebrews went across the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and when Saul was still in Gilgal, all the people who went after him were greatly troubled.
Saul was old years old when he became king, and he ruled for two years over Israel.
Say to all the men of Shechem, Is it better for you that seventy men are to rule over you, or that one man may have rule over you? and see that I am your bone and your flesh.
And he had thirty sons on horseback on thirty asses, and they had thirty towns, which is the name of Jair, which is in the land of Gilead.
And she said to Shammah, Say to me, Give me your great power, and give you trouble.
And the Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel, and said to them, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I took you up out of Egypt, and took you out of the prison-house;
And they made a request to him, saying, Let your words be open, which is the sense of grain. But he said, Sibbecai, not able to give up grain by the same letter by the same letter. And they took him and put him to death on the other side of the Jordan. And at that time there came two and forty thousand.
And he went away and went into the land of Atharim, building a town, and gave it the name of Luz to this day.
And Saul said to his servants, Make search for me a woman who has a spirit of spirit, so that I may go to her and get search of her. And his servants said to him, See, there is a woman who has a spirit in En-dor.
And the children of Ammon got up, and put up their tents in Gilead; and the children of Israel came together and put up their tents in Mizpah.
And there came down a small band among the rulers and the people; and the Lord came down for me against the strong.
And when it was said to David, Saul had put the priests to death.
And when he came to a meeting place, the Philistines gave a loud cry against him, and the spirit of the Lord came on him, and the cords on his hands were like the flax which was burned with fire, and his bands kept loose from his hands.
And the priest's heart was glad; and he took the ephod and the images and the images and went into the people.
And the children of Benjamin came together from the towns to Gibeon, to go out for war against the children of Israel.
And there went out a great man from the tents of the Philistines, named Goliath, the Gittite, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And he changed his face before them, falling down between their hands; and falling down against the doors of the doorway, he went down on his face.
And the children of Israel turned back, and the men of Benjamin were surprised, for they saw that the evil was coming on them.
And David said to Saul, Let no man be put to death because of him, so that your servant may go and fight against the Philistines.
And among all these men, seven hundred men, were able to put a stone on their heads and put them in flight.
And they said, Up, and let us go up against them: for we have seen the land, and see that it is very good; and you are still still: do not be slow to go in to take the land.
And the Spirit of the Lord came down on him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and put to death thirty men, and took their goods and gave their robes to those who had knowledge of the sense: and his wrath was lighted, and he went up to his father's house.
And when all the men of Shechem had news that they went into the house of the god of the god,
So they went back and went away and put the little ones and the cattle and the goods before them.
And Samuel said, Send all Israel to Mizpah, and I will make prayer to the Lord.
And again, when he came into the world, he said, And let all the angels of God give him worship.
By faith Abel gave an offering to God more than Cain, by which he had given his witness to him that he was upright; and God gave witness to him, and he was dead still.
And the Lord went on to give birth to her, and she gave birth to three sons and two daughters: and Samuel the child became stronger before the Lord.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what seems good to you, and take care of him till you go. And I pray that the Lord may give effect to his word. So the woman went in and gave her son to her son, till she took his breast.
And Jabez went out to the town of Sisera, and said to him, Come, my lord, be turned to me; fear not; and he went in to her into the tent, and covered him with the edge of the hole.
And God did so that night; for it was dry on the wool, and there was dew on all the earth.
For you have not come to the mountain, and it was all on fire and in the dark and in the dark and in the storm;
Those who were full of food get themselves out for bread, and the need of the hungry are no more: even the dry ones have seven, and the number of children is feeble.
So then, let us see that we are round about, so great a cloud of witnesses, putting away every weight and sin which is ready for us, and let us go with the rest of the world which is before us;
For you have been given freely to Christ, not only to have faith in him, but also to undergo for him.
Now Abimelech, the son of Jerub-baal, went to Shechem to his mother's brothers, and said to them,
Then Samuel gave orders to the people, and put it in a book, and put it before the Lord. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And the children of Joseph went up to Beth-el, and the Lord was with them.
And there was no need for them, without a small or great, or sons or daughters or anything that they had taken for them: and David got well.
And he said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Hammelech, Give me the linen ephod; and Abiathar took the ephod to David.
And all the people sent to the children of Benjamin, who were in the rock of Rimmon, and to send peace to them.
And the fighting was cruel against Saul, and the archers overtook him, and he was greatly troubled by the archers.
So that we may be ready to go into the rest of the rest, so that no one may be put to shame in the way of the evil-doer.
And when the angels came in, there was an image in the bed, with the head of goats' hair because of his faith.
And when they got up early in the morning, they saw their faces of Dagon on his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord, and the head of Dagon and the hands of his hands were cut off on the doorstep, and the base of the house of Dagon was turned to him.
And there was no need for them, small or great, or sons or daughters or goods or anything which they had taken. And David took all of them.
Then Samuel said, Why do you say to me, The Lord has gone away from you, and is your hater?
And Saul and his men went to search for him, and they gave orders to David; and he went down into a rock, and he was living in the waste land of Judah. And when Saul had news that he went after David in the waste land of Maon.
And she said to him, You have made sport of me, saying, You have made sport of me, and have given me a word of deceit; give me your robe. And he said to her, Let the hair of my head be in the house.
And they went back and went in flight to the rock of Rimmon, to the rock of Rimmon; and five thousand men went in the roads, and went after them to go after them, and put them to death.
Now when he had made an end of offering the burned offering, then Samuel came out, and Saul went out to see him, so that he might send his face to him.
So his father went down to the woman, and Jonathan was a feast for the young men.
Do not let your people be in need of guests, for they have had the same as guests without knowledge.
And David said to the men who were waiting by him, What will be given to the man who is to put the death of the Philistines and take away the shame of Israel? for who is this unclean Philistine, to make sport of the armies of the living God?
And he got up quickly to the young man who took his arms, and said to him, Take your sword and put me to death, so that they may not say of me, A woman put him to death. And the young man put him to death, and he was dead.
For he was ill, near to death; but God had mercy on him, and not only on him, but on me, so that I might have sorrow on sorrow.
And if I am living, you will give me the mercy of the Lord; but if I am dead,
And Saul said to Michal, Why have you tricked me, and sent away my hater? And Michal said to Saul, Let me go; why am I to put you to death?
And Samuel was dead; and all Israel came together and made a song for him, and they put him in his house at Ramah. And David got up and went down to the waste land of Paran.
For in the same way, in the town of Thessalonica, once and again to my need you sent.
Now Saul, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of God, fighting with the Philistines.
And it will be, when their fathers or their brothers come to us, saying that we will say to them, Be kind to them for our sakes, because we have not given up to every man his wife in the war: for you have not given to them at this time, so that you may be judged.
And she said, Ah, my lord, my lord, my lord, I am the woman who has been with you here, making prayer to the Lord.
And on the morning the people went out into the field, and said to Abimelech,
And there is a division of the oldest ones who are recorded in heaven, and to God the judge of all; and to the spirits of the upright, they have made complete;
But Christ, who has come to the high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and complete tent which is not made with power, is not of this work:
But the people would not give ear to the voice of Samuel; and they said, No; but we will have a king over us.
And when he gave back the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the goldsmith, who made her image and metal image, and it was in the house of Micah.
In Heshbon, in Heshbon, and in its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the towns which are on the sides of the Arnon, three hundred years; and why have you not given them up in that time?
But Saul did not say anything that day, for he had said that he was not clean, but he is not clean.
And the children of Israel went back, and put all the rest of the town to the sword, men and animals, and all the towns and the towns of Benjamin, with burning fire.
And his brothers and all his family came down and took him up; and they took him up, and put him in his body, and put him in his body in the town of Zorah, in the resting-place of his father, after twenty years.
And this will be the sign for you, which will come on your two sons, on the twenty-fourth day of the month, on the twenty-fourth day of the month; in one day they will be put to death.
Because of the voice of those who take part of the goods in the middle of the land, in the place where the Lord has done what is right, and his good acts to his towns in Israel: then the people of the Lord went down to the doors.
And he said, Let the king of Amalek be sent to me, and he will say to him, See, the grief of death is past.
And for forty years, with those who did evil, whose bodies were dead in the waste land?
Then you will come to the mountain of God, where the heads of the Philistines are; and when you come into the town, there will be a company of prophets coming down from the high place with corded instruments and corded instruments and instruments of music before them, and they themselves will be able to say.
And all Israel had news that Saul had overcome the army of the Philistines, and that Israel was disgusting to the Philistines. And the people went together after Saul to Gilgal.
And he said to them, What have I done to you? is not the grapes of the grapes of Ephraim than the grapes of Abiezer?
For though you are to be teachers, you need to have another teaching you in the first way of the law of God; you have come to give milk, not solid food.
And when he came to the tents of Midian, he said, See, I had a dream: a cake of barley went into the tents of Midian, and it came up to the tent, and it came to the tent, and it came down and turned it upside down so that the tent was falling.
Who by faith overcame kingdoms, who did righteousness, and gave an oath, and stopped the mouths of lions.
But they went after the war-carriages and went after the war-carriages, to the top of the field, and all the people of Sisera came to the edge of the sword, and there was no one left.
And David said to Saul, Why do you give ear to the words of men, saying, See, David is looking for your evil?
And let us go with a true heart, full of faith, having our hearts dropped from an evil heart, and our bodies washed with clean water.
But the people would not give ear to the voice of Samuel, saying, No, but there is a king over us.
And Saul said, There will not a man be put to death this day: for the Lord has done salvation in Israel.
And early in the morning they got up in worship before the Lord, and went back and came to their house at Ramah: and Elkanah had knowledge of his wife, and the memory of the Lord was in mind.
And the light of God was not gone out, and Samuel was put to sleep in the house of the Lord, where the ark of God was.
And Saul sent for all the people for war, to go down to Keilah, to make war on David and his men.
And Jonathan said, See, we are going over to the men, and we will make themselves clear to them.
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to fight against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim, and Israel was very sad.
And whenever they went out, the hand of the Lord was against them to do them wrong, as the Lord had said; and as the Lord had made an oath to them, they were very sad.
If he is able to make war with me, and have overcome me, then we have been to you for servants; and if I am able to be for him and have overcome him, then you have been to us for servants and have been our servants.
And they went down on the edge of the town, and Samuel said to Saul, Say to the young man that he goes before us, and he goes on, and you are waiting at this time, and I give you the word of God.
And this is the word, but it is necessary to take away those who are moved from those things which are put to shame, so that those which are not overcome may be stopped.
And Saul said, Make a decision between me and Jonathan, my son. And Jonathan was taken.
For you have done nothing good: as the Lord lives, you are to be put to death, because you have not kept watch over your lord, because you have not kept watch over the king of the Lord. So see where the spear is, and the vessel of water which is near his head.
And he said to him, Far be it! you may not be put to death. See, my father does nothing great or small, and does not have relations with me. Why does my father keep secret from me this thing? This is nothing.
And he took away the tower of Peniel, and put to death the men of the town.
Not turning away from those who are joined together, as some of some is, but to give one another to one another; and so much more, as you see the day coming.
And the five men went away and came to the town of Laish, and saw the people living in it, quiet and quiet, and there was no ruler in the land to put them to shame in any way; and they were far from the Zidonians, and had no business with any man.
And Samuel said, Has the Lord delight in the burned offerings and offerings of offerings, as in hearing to the voice of the Lord? See, let the ear be better than the offering, and be better than the fat of sheep.
And he said in a certain place on the seventh day, on this wise day, and God did rest on the seventh day from all his works.
Let the gentle man be made known to all men, for the Lord is near.
And while he was talking with them, there was a great man, the Philistines of Gath, whose name was Goliath, whose name was Goliath's name, and he said the same words, and David gave ear to them.
And he will take a tenth of your seed and his vine-gardens, and give his servants and his servants.
And he said to them, See me, and do the same; see, I am coming to the end of the tents, so that you may do it.
And one of the servants said, See, I have seen a son of Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem, a man of deceit, and a man of war, and a man of war, and a wise man, and a man of honour, and the Lord is with him.
So that we may say, The Lord is my help; I will not be troubled: what will man do to me?
But he, because he is ever ever, will keep the priesthood for ever.
And just as he had given an oath to the ark of God, he went down from his seat and went back to the door of the door, and his neck was broken, because the man was old and a great man, and he had been judged for forty years.
If he says, Good, peace for your servant; and if it is very angry, see that the evil has been made by him.
And Abimelech was living in the land of Judah, and his brothers and his brothers were from Shechem.
And the land of the land was resting forty years: and Othniel, the son of Kenaz, was to death.
So there is a day of rest for the people of God.
And the war was hard against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and Saul had seen a strong man and a strong man, and he took him to himself.
So they took food and drink and drink, and the young woman's father said to the man, Be pleased, let your heart go all night, and let your heart be full of joy.
And the Lord has come up to Saul to the town of Gibeah, saying, Does David not put himself in position with us in the cracks in the wood, on the mountain of the town of the town, on the south of the waste?
And he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, What sort of men you have put to death at Tabor? And they said, They were like you; every one of them had the form of the king's sons.
So then, make an oath to me by the Lord, that you will not take away my seed after me, and you will not take my name from my father's house.
And the three sons of Jesse went and went after Saul to the fight; and the name of his three sons was Eliab the oldest, and the second was Abinadab, and the second was Shammah.
And the angel of the Lord came to the woman and said to her, See now, you are a virgin and have no birth; but you will give birth to a son.
And they got up early in the morning and gave worship before the Lord, and went back to Ramah to Ramah: and Elkanah had knowledge of his wife, and the memory of the Lord was in mind.
And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and his oil is witness today, that you have not seen anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
So David went in flight against the Philistines and took his sword and put it out of its place and put him to death, cutting off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw their strong men, they went in flight.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to the voice of the people in everything they say to you: for they have not turned away from you, but I am not to be king over them.
And after that, David's heart overcame him, because he had cut off his robe.
And I will give you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hands of all your haters, and I will send them out from before you, and I will give you their land.
So take care and do not drink wine or strong drink, and do not take anything unclean,
And we have knowledge of the things which have been made ready for ever, to have been made ready by the word of God, to see the things which have not been seen by things of things.
You have not been against the blood of blood, but against sin.
So Abimelech and all the army who were with him got up by night, and they were waiting for him in four divisions.
For this cause my brothers and sisters are loved and desired for, my joy and a crown, so that you may be in the Lord my love.
And Benjamin came out to them from the town of Gibeah on the second day, and put an end to the destruction of the children of Israel, eighteen thousand men, to the earth; all these were coming to war.
And the Lord said to the children of Israel, Did I not give you up from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as locusts for the number of locusts; for they and their camels had no number, and they went into the land to put an end to it.
I am able to do all things by him who gives me strength.
And I have made an oath to the house of God, that the sin of the house of birth may not be made clean with offering or offerings for ever.
And Adam said, When your words come to pass, what will be the son's business and his doings?
And Samuel was dead; and all Israel came together and made a grief for him and put him in his house at Ramah. And David got up and went down to the waste land of Paran.
So the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he said, Because this people have broken my agreement which I gave orders to their fathers, and have not kept my voice,
And David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel, that I may be a son-in-law to the king?
And David went back from Saul to take care of his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
For in that which he was, when he was put into error, he is able to help those who are in need.
And you will say, Because of this, when the Lord has given destruction and Zalmunna to destruction, I will take your flesh with the thorns of the waste land and with thorns.
And put it into the pot, or into the pot, or into the pot, or into the plate; and all the vessels which the men took up, the priest took to himself; and all Israel had come to the town of Shiloh.
And this is the agreement which I give to them after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws in their hearts, and I will put them on their minds.
( Now I say to you, I say to you, that you may be in the same mind in the Lord.
And they made themselves clear to the army of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, See, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they were secretly.
And David and his men went up, attacking the Geshurites and the Amalekites, and the Amalekites: for those who were living in the land were old, as you go to Shur, even to the land of Egypt.
So they went on and went away, and the sun went down on them at Gibeah, which is the heritage of Benjamin.
Only give yourselves life in the good news of the Christ, that if you come and see you, or come away, I may give ear to you, that you may be strong in one spirit, with one soul, working with the faith of the glad news.
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give me bread to the people who go after me, for they are feeble and I go after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
But Saul, and the people of war, and the best of the flock, and the best of the flock, and the best of the flock, and all the value of all sorts of goods, they were not willing to put them to destruction: but all the goods which were made low or were made waste, they were completely destroyed.
For whom the Lord has love, he will give punishment; and every son will take care of him.
And he put an ephod out of it, and put it in the town of a town in the town of Ophrah; and all Israel had sex with it, and it became a net for the children of Israel.
And the oxen went straight on the road to Beth-shemesh, on the same way as they went; they did not go to the right or to the left, and the chiefs of the Philistines went after them up to Beth-shemesh.
And they went back and went in flight to the waste land, to the rock of Rimmon, but five thousand men were cut down on the sides of the land; and they went after them, and they overcame two thousand men.
And Samuel said to Saul, You have done a foolish thing: you have not kept the orders of the Lord your God, which he gave you orders; for now the Lord would have put your kingdom in Israel for ever.
And Jonathan had a agreement with the family of David, and the Lord had made search for the haters of David.
And after the evil spirit of the Lord was on Saul, David took his harp, and took his hands with his hands, and Saul was comforted, for the evil spirit had gone away from him.
And they cut off his head, and took off his goods, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to make an account of it in the house of their false gods and among the people.
And the children of Dan put up the images: and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan till the day of the fate of the land.
Though men go after you to go after you, and to search for your soul, and the soul of my lord will be shut up in the bag of life, with the Lord your God, he will send out the souls of your haters like the edge of a sling.
And Jonathan said to David, Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be turned away, because your seat is gone.
I have sent him so much more, so that when you see him again you may be glad, and that I may be the less sad.
And Samuel said, Like the sword of your sword, so that your mother may be without children, so that the children of Samuel may be without children. And Samuel was cut down before the Lord in Gilgal.
And David went back from Saul to take care of his father's flock at Beth-lehem.
And Saul took him that day and let him go no longer to his father's house.
For we have faith in Christ: but so, if we have the time of his wealth to the end.
And he went up from there to Peniel, and said to them, As the men of Succoth said to him,
But of the Son he says, Your seat, O God, is for ever and ever; and the rod of righteousness is the rod of your kingdom.
And when the boy was gone, David got up from a place to the south, and went down on his face to the earth, and put his face on his face three times: and they gave a kiss for one another, and was weeping one with another till David was greater.
If only this people were under my hand, then I would take away Abimelech. And he said to Abimelech, Give up your army and come out.
See, my brothers, that there may be no one among you a sinner's heart, turning away from the living God.
And the people sent twelve thousand men of the best men there, saying, Go and attack the people of Jabesh-gilead with the sword, with the women and the little ones.
And Samuel said to Saul, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, and you will take food with me today; then I will send you away in the morning, and I will give you word to you.
Take care of the holy places and the upright Tent, which the Lord has put up, not man.
And she did not go up, for she said to her husband, Until the child is taken, I will send him in, and he will be seen before the Lord, and he will be living there for ever.
And the man got up to go away, but his father-in-law made a request for him, and he was there again.
And Saul said, God do so and more; for you will certainly be put to death, Jonathan.
So David said sharp words to his servants, and did not let them go up against Saul; and Saul got up from the hole and went on his way.
Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
Now go and take away Amalek, and put an end to all that they have, and take away every man and woman, the child and the child and the child and the ox and the sheep and the camel and the ass.
And when Saul saw it and had knowledge that the Lord was with David, Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for him.
Be certain of yourselves, that our brother Timothy has been made free; with whom he comes quickly, I will see you.
For it is said, You are a priest for ever, as the order of Melchizedek.
And all the men of Israel got up from their place, and put themselves in position at Baal Tamar; and the secret men of Israel went out of their place, out of the fields of Geba.
And David got up secretly and came to the place where Saul was; and when he saw the place where Saul was sleeping, Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of his army, was sleeping in a tent, and the rest of the people round about him.
And Saul was named, and all the people who were with him, and they came to the fight; and, behold, the sword of every man was a great destruction.
But my God will give up all your need for his wealth in the glory of Jesus Christ.
For this cause I am hoping to send him at once, when I see how to go with me.
And when the Lord made selection of them, the Lord was with the ruler, and he gave them salvation from the hand of their haters all the days of the ruler: for the Lord was moved by their cries because of their cruel and cruel ones.
And the servant said to Saul again, See, I have here with the fourth part of a shekel of silver, so that I may give to the man of God, to give orders to us.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil and put oil on him in the middle of his brothers; and the Spirit of the Lord came on David from that day forward. And Samuel got up and went to Ramah.
But when she had put his face on her knees, she put his head in her arms, and she took a crown for it, and cut off his seven hair, driving him away from her, because quickly his strength went away from him.
And David did not go out from there a man or woman to put them back to Gath, saying, So that they may not give news to us, saying, David has done this. So he did all the days in the land of the Philistines.
And the chiefs of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews here? And he said to the chiefs of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or for this time, and I have not seen him, seeing that he has gone to this day?
And the Levite was pleased with the man, and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
And the angel of the Lord said to Adam, If you keep me, I will not have enough of your bread; and if you give a burned offering, give it to the Lord: for man did not have knowledge that he was an angel of the Lord.
And he said to her, How long will you be like one who is drunk? put away your wine.
And Jesse gave birth to Shammah, and said, Even the Lord has not given effect.
And he changed his way before them, and made sport of their hands, and put them on the doors of the door, and let his face come down on his face.
And David made answer to the priest and said to him, Truly, if women have been made from us as before before, then the vessels of the young men are holy, and it is common: and today it is made holy in the vessel.
And David took no man or woman living in the land, to give news to Gath, saying, Lest they say to us, This is what David did; and so will he be in the land of the Philistines.
And the child Samuel became very tall, and was pleased with the Lord and the people.
But the spirit of the Lord went away from Saul, and the spirit of the Lord was troubled by the Lord.
And David went after him, and he and four hundred men, but two hundred men were waiting for them to go across the river.
Now David was the son of Beth-lehem, the son of Beth-lehem, whose name was Jesse, and he had eight sons. And the man was old in the days of Saul.
This is the agreement which I will make with them after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their mind I will make them a writing.
And what we say is still more, if after the image of Melchizedek there is a priest,
And when Jacob came to Egypt, and your fathers were crying to the Lord, then the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, and they took out your fathers out of Egypt, and let them be living in this place.
And if this people were under my hand, then I would take Abimelech away. And he said to Abimelech, Give up your army and come out.
When you come into the town, you will get him quickly, before he goes up to the high place to take food: for the people will not take food till he comes, because he has given blessing to the peace-offerings, and then they have food to be used. Now get you up, for about this hour you will have him.
And after that David's heart was put to death, because he had cut off the robe of Saul.
And he said to his servants, The Lord has said that I would do this thing to my master, the Lord's selection, to put out my hand against him, for he is the Lord's selection.
And David took his wife in Ramah, and his wives were two.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites; for the people have kept the best of the sheep and the cattle, to make offerings to the Lord your God: we have completely destroyed the rest.
And Saul was attempting to put the spear on David and the wall with the spear; but he went away from Saul's face, and he put the spear into the wall; and David went in flight that night.
He is a tenth of your flock, and you are to him for servants.
And Jesse said to David his son, Take for your brothers an ephah of cooked grain, and these ten cakes, and send them quickly to the tent-circle for your brothers.
And the peace of God, which goes through all wisdom, keep your hearts and mind in Christ Jesus.
And the Philistines came together to Aphek, and the children of Israel put up their tents by the water-spring in Jezreel.
And he took the House and all the vessels of the holy place with the blood.
And Saul became angry with Jonathan, and he said to him, You son of the foolish woman, do I not see that you have taken the son of Jesse to your shame, and to the shame of your mother?
For he was looking for a town which had been put to the earth, the builder and the maker of God.
For every house is building by others, and he who has all things made for God;
And Abijah went down to Timnah and saw a woman in Timnah by the daughters of the Philistines.
And the light of God had not gone out, and Samuel was put in the house of the Lord, where the ark of God was.
It is not good that you have done. As the Lord lives, you are to be put to death, because you have not kept watch over your lord, the king of the Lord. Now see where the king's spear is, and the vessel of water which was at his head.
It is right for me to take care of you all, because I have you in my heart, because you are in my chains and in the cause of the good news, you all have given me grace.
And Saul sent men to take David, and it was said that he was ill.
And the Spirit of the Lord came to him in the middle of the tents of Dan, between Zorah and Sharon.
And the angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to the prophet,
And when he was put out till the middle of the middle of the night, he got up in the middle of the middle of the night, and took the doors of the town and the two pillars with them, and put them on his shoulders and put them on the top of a hill which is before Hebron.
And the three sons of Jesse went after Saul to the fight; and the name of his three sons was Eliab the oldest, and his third was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, when he was dead.
And others were judged by the seats of kings and of the prisoners, and of chains and bands.
In the past, when a man went to get directions from God, he said, Come, let us go up to the prophet; for the prophet of this day was a prophet.
And Samuel said to the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and let us make new the kingdom there.
And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord, and the weight of the gold which was with it, in which the gold was, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burned offerings and burned offerings on the same day to the Lord.
And for this cause he is a sign of a new agreement, to be put to death for the salvation of the sins which were under the first agreement, so that those who have been named may have the word of eternal heritage.
And the rod of his spear was like a weaver's rod, and his spear was about six hundred shekels of iron: and the watchman went before him.
And now, my father, see, and see the skirts of your robe in my hand; for I have cut off the robe of your robe, and have not put you to death; see that there is no evil or uncontrolled in my hand, and I have not done wrong against you, though you are looking for my life to take it.
And again he gives the first child into the world, saying, Let all the angels of God worship him.
To an example and to the shade of the lights of heaven, as Moses had been ordered, to make the House holy: for he said, You are to make all things by the design which were given you on the mountain.
And the chiefs of the Philistines went on by hundreds and by thousands; and David and his men went on on the back.
And the Philistines overcame Saul and his sons; and the Philistines overcame Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And she said, I will certainly go with you; certainly your glory is not on the way which you are going, for the Lord has given orders to Sisera. Then she got up and went with her, and went with her.
And a man of God came to him, and said to him, The Lord says, Did I make myself clear to the house of your father, when they were in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh's house?
For our God is a burning fire.
And the Holy Spirit gives witness to us, saying,
And Saul said, I have done wrong; let David, my son, be turned back, for I have done no more to you, because my soul has been very dear in your eyes today. See, I have done a foolish thing, and have done nothing wrong.
And David said to Abigail, May the Lord, the God of Israel, have sent you this day to see me.
And the Lord will send destruction on you, and all the war-carriages, and all the army, by the mouth of the sword, before the sword; and when Sisera comes down from the carriage, he will go running to his feet.
And Israel was waiting at Gibeah round about.
And he came to the fields by the way, and there was a hole there; and Saul went in to get care of himself. And David and his men were seated in the middle of the hole.
And he gave birth to Samuel and said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
And Abimelech went after him, and he went away from before him; and a great number of people was wounded at the door of the doorway.
And if it was not without an oath ( for they were a priest without an oath),
Having then a great high priest who has gone through the heaven, Jesus, the Son of God, let us keep the memory of our faith.
And Abimelech said to the king, Who among all your servants is like David? he is the son-in-law of the king who takes care of you and is honoured in your house.
And from the day the ark was in Kiriath-jearim, the time was long; for it was about twenty years; and all the children of Israel were weeping after the Lord.
For it was said, In Isaac your seed will be named.
And David went after them, and he and four hundred men were waiting for two hundred men to go over the river.
And the Spirit of the Lord was well with him, and he took it in grief like a young goat, and there was nothing in his hand; and he did not make clear to his father and his mother what he had done.
And David put on his sword on his clothing, and he went in flight, because he had not tested it. And David said to Saul, I am not able to go with these men, for I have not put them to the test. And David took them away.
And in Hormah, and in Jarmuth, and in Rithmah,
Now the sons of Oded were sons of the Evil; they had no knowledge of the Lord.
Then all the trees said to the thorns, Come and be king over us.
In addition, I say to you, true friend, give help to these women, for they have been working with me in the good news and the rest of my neighbours, whose names are in the book of life.
And he said to him, Take me, my lord; how am I to give up Israel? See, my family is the least of Manasseh, and I am the youngest in my father's house.
And hearing this, he gave ear to their words, and took the ephod and the images and the images and went away with them.
And the men of Jabesh-gilead said, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you may do with us whatever is good in your eyes.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, for the ark of the agreement of God was there in those days.
And all the children of Israel and all the people went up, and came to Beth-el, weeping; and they were seated there before the Lord and went without food on that day till evening; and they made burned offerings and peace-offerings before the Lord.
Only let your way of life be for the good news of Christ, that if I come and see you or be away, I may give ear to you, that you may be strong in one spirit, with one soul for the faith of the good news;
And before they were burned up the fat, the servant's servant came and said to the man who was offering, Give flesh to the priest, for he will not have cooked flesh of you, but be open.
And Samuel did not see Saul again till the day of his death; but Samuel was sorrowing over Saul, and the Lord was very sad that he made Saul king over Israel.
And when I and all who are with me blow on the horn, you are to blow on the horns and round about the tent-circle; and say, To the Lord and to the rod.
And the trees said to the vine, Come and be king over us.
And Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went with his brothers and went to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their faith in him.
And he went on from there to the people of Debir, to the town of Debir, which was Kiriath-arba, the town of letters.
And he took the responsible men of the town, and the thorns in the waste land, and the grain-instruments, and gave them orders by the men of Succoth.
And she put it on the band, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, O Lemuel. And he got up from his sleep and took away the band of wood and the cord.
And he will take your fields and your vine-gardens and your olive-trees, and give them to his servants.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver which have been taken away from you, and what you have said in my curse, see, the silver is with me, and I took it. And his mother said, Happy be my son of the Lord.
They made selection of new gods, and there was war in the doors: was there any of forty thousand in Israel?
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Shimei and Malchijah and the names of his two daughters: the name of Michal the first, and the name of the younger woman.
And David said, Will the men of Keilah take me and my men into the hands of Saul? And the Lord said, They will keep you safe.
And there was a man from Ramah, a field of Zophim, from the hill-country of Ephraim, and Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Shallum, the son of Ephraim.
And Saul put his spear on him to put him to death; and Jonathan was certain that his father had put David to death.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were overcome: for the men of Israel gave place to the children of Benjamin, because they had faith in the town at Gibeah.
And when he had made an end of the offering, he sent away the people who had given the offering.
The men of Gibeah came up against me, and they were round the house round about me by night, and thought to have put me to death; and my wife was put to death, and she was dead.
And when he had said these words to David, it was good to David to be the son of the king's wife:
And I made him a request for the Lord all the days he had been living; and he went down before the Lord.
Only, with food and drinking and all sorts of evil things, put in the law till the time of their sins.
And they got out of the people of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young women, virgins who had no knowledge of a male, and they came to the tent-circle at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And when he saw that he was the angel of the Lord, he said, Ah, Lord God: for I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face.
And the people took from the goods of war, sheep and oxen, and all the best things for destruction, to make offerings to the Lord your God at Gilgal.
And David was wise in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
And the Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel, and he said to them, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I took you up out of the land of Egypt, and I took you from the prison-house.
For this cause even the first agreement has not been made holy without blood.
And there is no saviour, for it is far from Sidon; and they have no word with man, and it is in the valley which is by Beth-Rehob; and they are building the town and are living in it.
And Samuel sent the people together to the Lord at Mizpah.
And on the side of the valley, on the side of the valley, on the side of the valley of Moreh, he and all the people who were with him, got up early and put up their tents by the fountain of Moreh.
Now when it was old, when it was old, he had news of all that his sons had done to all Israel, and how they had connection with the women who were waiting at the door of the Tent:
And there was a shaking in the tents, and in the fields, and among all the people; and the band and bands of war were shaking, and the earth was shaking, and there was a great fear.
And the fire went up to heaven from the altar, and the angel of the Lord went up in the flames of the altar to heaven, and his wife and his wife were watching, and they went on their faces to the earth.
And she said, The glory has gone away from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
So that we may give praise to God for ever, to give praise to God.
And her father said, I have thought that you have hated her, so that I gave her to you. Is not her younger sister better than she? take her now.
And ten thousand of all the men of Israel came to the town of Gibeon, and the war was damaged; but they had no knowledge of that evil was near them.
If any way I have come to life from among dead,
But a young man came to Abigail, the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, See, David sent messengers from the waste country to our master, but he said to them,
And Jonathan took off the robe which was on him, and gave it to David and his clothing, to his sword, and to his bow, and to his band.
And he said to him, If I have found grace in your eyes, you have done for me a sign that you are talking with me.
And his sons did not go in his ways, but made money for money, and took a reward of money and a twisted decision.
In addition, it was the right thing to do the right, and the holy place of the world.
And the oxen came to the field of Joshua, to the field of Beth-shemesh, and stopped there a great stone; and they took the wood of the cart and gave them to the Lord as a burned offering to the Lord.
Give up the men of the waste land which in the town of Gibeah, and we put them to death, and we put away evil from Israel. And the children of Benjamin would not give ear to the voice of their brothers, the children of Israel.
To Jesus, the relation of a new agreement, and to the blood of the prophet than for Abel.
So they took counsel and said, See, there is a feast of the Lord in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, and on the east side of the road, from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of the town of Leth.
And Abraham, being named by faith, gave orders to go out into the place where he was to get a heritage, and went out without knowledge where he was going.
And on the day of the day, Saul put the people in three bands; and they came into the middle of the tents in the morning, and overcame the children of Ammon till the heat of the day: and the rest of the people were wandering, so that not two of them were left together.
And the Philistines took him, put out his eyes, and took him down to Gaza, and put him in chains of brass, and put him in prison.
And Abimelech and the captains who were with him went forward, and took their place at the doorway of the town; and the two bands went rushing on all those who were in the field, and they were wounded.
And they went back and went and put the little children and the cattle and the property in front of them.
There is no blessing for the better, but the good of the upright is increased.
For he does not take note of angels by the hand, but he takes the seed of Abraham.
And he said to the young man who took him by the hand, Let loose of me and let me see the pillars on which the house is, so that I may be waiting on them.
And when the men came to the town of Saul, they gave word to the people, and all the people lifted up their voices and were weeping.
And Abimelech said to the king, Who among all your servants is true as David, who is the son-in-law of the king, and is taken into your secret, and is honoured in your house?
And Saul and the men of Israel came together, and they put up their tents in the valley of God, and put their position in position against the Philistines.
For who, when they had knowledge of it, did not all those who came out of Egypt by Moses?
And Jotham went away and went in flight and went to Beer-sheba, and there he was living in fear of his brother Abimelech.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us get food on them till the light of the morning, and let not one of them go away. And they said, All that is good in your eyes. And the priest said, Let us go near here to God.
And the angel of the Lord did not come again to man's wife, and to his wife; and Adam knew that he was the angel of the Lord.
And he made a fight, and overcame Amalek, and made Israel free from the power of his attacker.
And they said, There is a part of the tribe of Benjamin, and there is no division in Israel.
And all the evil-doing of the men of Shechem was on their heads, and the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerub-baal.
And when they came there to the mountain, a group of prophets came to him, and the Spirit of God came on him, and he was talking with them.
And he put it on the plate, on the pot, on the pot, on the pot, on the pot, and on the pot; and the priest took some of it, and all the birds of Israel in Shiloh, to all the children of Israel.
The weight of the gold rings which he had given was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, in addition to the ornaments of the ornaments of Midian, and the chains and the purple robes which were on the kings of Midian, and in addition to the chains of their camels.
And Saul said, Make clear among the people, and say to them, Take me here every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and put them to death, and put them to death, and do not sin against the Lord; and let all the people take his ox with him at night and put them to death there.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman who was put to death, said, I came to the town of Benjamin, and I and my wife went to the night.
And it came to pass, when Sisera went after the tents of Sisera, stretching out to him, he said to him, Come, and I will give you the man whom you are looking for. And when he came into her tent, see, Sisera and Sisera, and the nails were in his houses.
Now on the third day, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites came to the south and to Ziklag and put it on Ziklag, burning it with fire;
And laughing sent to the king of the children of the children of Ammon, saying, This is to me and to you that you have come to me to fight in my land.
And she said, May your servant be pleasing in your eyes. Then she went on her way and gave her food, and her face was no longer sad.
I go after my purpose, for the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And this man went up out of his town from year to year to give worship and peace-offerings to the Lord of armies in Shiloh: the two sons of Heli, the chief of the Levites, were there.
And Jonathan said to Saul his father, Why will he be put to death? what has he done?
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the prophet; go up before me into the high place, and you will have nothing to do with me today, and I will send you away in the morning, and all that is in your heart I will say to you.
And now give ear to their voice; give witness to them, and make clear to them the way of the king who will rule over them.
And from year to year he went to Beth-el, and to Gilgal, and at Mizpah, judging Israel in all those places.
Take care of the dogs, take care of the evil workers, take care of the wrongdoing,
And if their fathers and their brothers have come against us, we will say to them, Let us say to them, We have not taken a wife for one man in the war, and because you did not give it to them, or you would have been judged.
And they got up and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the waste land of Maon, on the south side of the waste land.
And he said to them, This is what Micah has done to me, and he has given me a servant, and I am his priest.
And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner was the father of Salmon,
And on the day of the day, the evil spirit of God came on Saul, and he was talking in the middle of the house: and David was acting with his hand as at other times, and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
And Samuel said to Saul, You have been foolish and have not kept the orders of the Lord your God, which he gave you orders; for now the Lord made your kingdom over Israel for ever.
And all this people will see that the Lord will not give you the power of the sword and the spear: for the fight is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.
And I gave you up out of the hands of the Egyptians, and out of the hands of all your haters, driving them out from before you, and gave you their land.
And to those in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were there.
And the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you be sad for Saul, whom I have put away from Israel? put your horns with oil, and come, that I may send you to Jesse, the town of Beth-lehem: for I have given me a king among his sons.
And Micaiah said, Now I am certain that the Lord will make me well, for the Levites have become my priest.
And they gave orders to Sisera, the son of Abinadab, and they went up to Mount Tabor.
And he said to his servants, See, you see that the man is troubled: why have you taken him to me?
Then said the trees to the vine, Come, and let us rule over us.
And they sent representatives to the people of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have come back to the ark of the Lord; come down and take it to yourselves.
Have you not taken the heritage of your god, the god of your god, to take your heritage? If the Lord our God is driving out before us, they will be our property.
And he said, What is the thing that the Lord has said to you? I say to you, Do not keep it from me: God does so to you, and more, if you keep secret anything from me all the things which he said to you.
And now there is no faith which is pleasing to him: for he who comes before God will have faith that he is, and is a reward to those who are looking for him.
No man takes honour for himself, but the name of God, as Aaron was.
And she, hearing the voice of the weeping, said, What is the noise of this trouble? And the man came quickly and gave birth to a word.
Take away the sin of your servant, for the Lord will certainly make a safe house for my lord, because you, my lord, make war against the Lord; let no evil be seen in you all the days of your life.
And the angel of the Lord said these words to all the children of Israel, weeping and weeping.
The Lord will give to every man his righteousness and his faith: for the Lord has given you into my hand to day; but I will not put my hand on the Lord's selection.
And the angel of the Lord came to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, you strong man.
And Jonathan said to David, Whatever your soul may say, I will do it for you.
Now the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of the Lord and took it into the house of Abinadab in the hill-country, and made holy Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the Lord.
& lt; To the chief music-maker. A Psalm. Of David. & gt; O Israel, who has given up your life to evil, blessing the Lord.
Do you not take the heritage of your god Chemosh, which he gave you for your heritage? whom the Lord our God has sent out before us, we will take possession of it.
In this way, in the same way, God, desiring to give effect to the undertaking of his purpose, made it by an oath,
But you have turned away from me, and have gone after other gods; and I will not keep you safe.
Give thought to yourselves, and take note of what you have to do: for evil is turned against your husband and against your house, and he is a sinner, so that no one may say to him.
So he went to Ramah in Ramah, and the spirit of God came on him, and he went on his way and went to Ramah.
Then I said, I came to the house of Benjamin with my wife, and there I was there.
And now, stand still, so that I may be to you before the Lord of all the upright acts of the Lord which he did to you and to your fathers.
The haters of the Lord will have fear of him, and his voice will be sounding in heaven: the Lord will judge the ends of the earth, and he will give power to his king, and he will make the horn of his Christ great.
But now he has the greater part of the grace which has been given to the grace which has been given to the grace of the Lord.
And when he saw the story of the dream and its sense, he put his face on his face and went back to the tent-circle of Israel, and said, Up! for the Lord has given you the tents of Midian.
And this man went up out of his town from year to year to give worship and peace-offerings to the Lord of armies in Shiloh: and the two sons of Heli, the chief of the Levites, were there.
And others were laughing and making sport of, and in addition to chains and bands.
And when you go, you will come to a people safe, and the land is great on two hands: for God has given it into your hands, a place where there is no need in the land.
And while they were making their hearts glad, the men of the town, some of the feeble men, were round the house round about, and said to the master of the house, the old man, Give birth to the man who came into your house, so that we may see him.
And he said to his servants, See, you see a man who is acting like a mad man. Why do you give him to me?
Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
Have you not put your words to the comfort of the Lord, saying, My son, do not take the training of the Lord, or be troubled when you are angry with him;
And David took no man or woman living there, to send them to Gath, saying, Lest they say to us, David has done this, and this has been done in the land of the Philistines.
I am attempting to give up to the same mind the same mind in the heart of the Lord.
And now, what is under your hand? give me five cakes of bread in my hand, or whatever is there.
Am I not able to say foolish men, that you have made this one mad before me? will this man go into my house?
And the king of the children of Ammon would not give ear to the words of the stork, which he sent by the men.
By faith he went out from Egypt, and did not have fear of the king's wrath, because he was still waiting for the Evil One.
And Memucan went out into the room and shut the doors of the room on him, and shut them.
But in those offerings there is a memory of sin every year.
We have an altar, and there is no power for them to take the work of the House.
And having been made upright, he was to all those who keep him, the God of eternal salvation.
And Samuel said, As your sword has given birth to women, so will your mother be without children. And Samuel put him to death before the Lord at Gilgal.
For the Christ has not come into the holy places made with power, but in the same way, but in heaven, to come before God for us.
Are they not all the work of the spirits of the earth? are they not able to send for the heritage of those who are to be given salvation?
And there was a first of twenty men on the first side of the building, which was the first part of the field.
And they were a wall to us by night and day, as we were with them keeping the sheep.
And Saul said, Give me the burned offering and the peace-offerings; and he gave the burned offering.
And the Philistines came together with their armies, together with their armies, and went together to the town of Soco, which is in Judah, and put up their tents between them and Azekah.
Cursed be the cause, says the angel of the Lord, curse the people who are living, because they did not come to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord.
And now, brothers and sisters, whatever are the true thing, whatever are the things which are pleasing, whatever is pleasing, whatever is pleasing, whatever things are pleasing, what is able to give: if there is any profit, and if there is any praise, take care of these things.
And after him, Jair went up from Gilead, judging Israel for twenty-two years.
At that time there was a young man of the Gileadites, a strong man, and the son of a woman who was a harlot; and his father was Gilead.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of the earth, his wife gave him an account of these things; and his heart was dead inside him, and he became a stone.
And you will go out from there, and you will come to the great tree of Tabor, and three men will go up to Beth-el, one taking three young goats, and three cakes of bread, and a drink of wine.
And they were a number of priests in number, because that by death they were kept from going.
And Israel sent representatives to the king of Edom, saying, Let us go through your land, but the king of Edom would not give ear. And they sent representatives to the king of Moab, but he was not willing. So Israel stayed in Kadesh.
So David went away from there and went to the rock of Adullam; and when his brothers and all his father's house had news of it, they went down to him.
And it was made clear to Saul that David had gone away to Gath, and no longer went after him.
And the children of Midian overcame the children of Israel, and they took away their heads no more: for forty years the land had rest in the days of the rule.
And on the morning the people got up early and made an altar there and burned offerings and peace-offerings.
And he said to God, If you are the saviour of Israel by my hand, as you have said,
For if the word which was given by angels was true, and all the wrongdoing and wrongdoing were given to him for a reward,
And he went out and went out at the doorway at the doorway of the town. And Abimelech got up, and all his army were with him from the place of the watchmen.
And Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to make you king over his people, over Israel: now give ear to the voice of the Lord.
And the child of Samuel was the Lord's servant before the Lord, and the word of the Lord was dear in those days; and there was no vision in the vision.
And the Lord looked on him and said, Go in this way, and keep Israel safe from the Midianites: have I not sent you?
Whose voice was shaking the earth, but now he has said, But I am not moved from the earth only, but the heavens.
And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Happy be you of the Lord: I have done the orders of the Lord.
The better is better than the other, but the better is honoured by the better.
But they would not give ear to their judges, but they went after other gods and put their faces to them: they went quickly out of the way which their fathers went in, to keep the orders of the Lord, but not so.
And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner was the father of Abner,
And David said to Jonathan, See, tomorrow is the new moon, and I am not to go with the king with food; but let me go, and let me go into the field till the third evening.
And these are the vessels of gold which the Philistines went back as an offering to the Lord: one of Ashdod, and Ashkelon, one, and Gath, one; and Ekron, one;
For in the same way, as the Lord, the God of Israel, is living, who has kept me from hurting you, if you had quickly come quickly and come to me, certainly there was not a man who had been given to the man of the earth who was the sinner.
And the children of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord; and the Lord made it hard for Eglon to come against Israel, because they had done evil in the eyes of the Lord.
And Saul put on his robe, and put a robe of brass on his head, and put him in his robe.
Now the name of the man was Nabal of Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. This woman was a good man, and the man was great and evil in his works: he was of the family of Caleb.
I have not done wrong against you, but you do me wrong against me. May the Lord judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And his wife was untrue to him, and went away from him to Beth-lehem, her father's house, and was there for four months.
And Jonathan, Saul's son, got up and went to David into the wood and made his hands strong in God.
And the responsible men of the people said, What may we do for wives for those who are left? for the women have been cut off from Benjamin.
Even so the Christ has not given glory to himself to be made a high priest; but he who said to him, You are my Son, I have been your father.
And the Lord came and took his place there, and said to him, Samuel and Samuel. And Samuel said, Because your servant is hearing.
This is the sign for you who are to take care of your two sons, the son of Levi, the son of Phinehas: they will come on the same day.
And after this, David's heart overcame him, because he had cut off his robe.
Do not let your words be increased, and let not the glory of glory come out of your mouth: for the Lord is the God of knowledge, and by his works are the weight of him.
You have made him small less than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honour, and have put him over the works of your hands.
Why, then, when he comes into the world, he says, Give offerings and offerings to you; but you have given me a body.
And David said, What have I done now? has it not been put on me?
And Elijah said to the angel of the Lord, Let us take care of a young goat for you.
And Saul gave birth to his daughter Michal to David, to give birth to the son of Laish, the son of Laish.
And Eliab, his oldest son, said to the men, And Eliab was very angry with David, and said, Why have you come down today, and with whom have you left the flock in the waste land? I have knowledge of your designs and the evil of your heart: for you have come down to see the war.
My brothers, I do not take care of myself, but I do not take care of the things which are in addition to the things which are in the past, and to give to those things which are before,
For a man takes an oath by a greater man, and in every cause of his undertaking the oath is complete.
And it came to pass, that he was waiting for the word.
And he took a gold vessel and the ark of the agreement plated with gold, in which the gold pot had manna, and the rod of Aaron, which was shining, and the tables of the agreement;
And Israel sent representatives to Sihon, king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon: and Israel said to him, Let us go through your land into my place.
But we desire that every one of you may give the same care to the full hope of waiting for the end;
And Asher did not give destruction to the people who were living in the land of Soco, and of the Zidonians, and of Judah, and of the Ethiopians, and of Salecah, and of Aphek, and of Rehob.
Let your life be without profit, and be full of such things as you have; for he has said, I will never go away from you or give up.
Now there was a man of Seraiah, whose name was Dan, and his wife was married.
Now the men of Israel had made an oath in Mizpah, saying, We will not give his daughter Benjamin to wife.
See to the dogs, and see the evil workers, and take note of the violent acts.
And all the land of the Amorites from the Arnon to the Jabbok, and from the waste land to the Jordan.
Even so, even Levi, he who takes the tenth part, has given the tenth part through Abraham.
So then, holy brothers, take part in the selection of God, the Apostle and the chief priest of our faith, Christ Jesus;
And David overcame the land, and no man or woman was living; and he took care of the sheep and the oxen and the oxen and the camels and the clothing and went back to the earth.
For faith is the man who has been waiting for what is waiting for, a sign which is not seen.
If the past had been without sin, there was no longer a place for a second time.
Why did you not give ear to the voice of the Lord, but went in flight on the goods of the Lord?
But as for us, dear friends, we are better off than that of you, and things with salvation, though we say it.
And the men of the position gave an answer to Jonathan and the bowmen, saying, Come up to us, and let us see something. And Jonathan said to the man who took his arms, Come up after me, for the Lord has given them into the hands of Israel.
And the Philistines said, This day I have made sport of the bands of Israel: give me a man, and let him make war with me.
For this cause, having taken a kingdom which is not overcome, let us have grace, so that we may give worship to God with fear and fear.
And the children of Israel went from there, every man to his father and his family, and every man went out from there to his heritage.
And the king said to her, Have no fear; what have you seen? And the woman said to Saul, I have seen gods coming up from the earth.
Give your word to me by the Lord, that you will not take away my seed after me, or take my name from my father's house.
So God made him great, and gave him the name which is over every name.
And when she had made him hard for a long time, and had a long time on him for a long time, he gave him no rest, and he was overcome with grief till death.
And Abimelech went to the place of Thebez and put him to death at Thebez and took it.
The oxen went straight by the way to Beth-shemesh; they went by the way, straight as they went, and did not go to the right or to the left; and the chiefs of the Philistines went after them to the edge of Beth-shemesh.
And the chiefs of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, so that we may give food to your army?
And this has been done from that day forward, and a law and a law and a law in Israel.
And turning away from the Lord, the God of their fathers, who took them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods of the gods of the peoples round about them, worshipping them and making the Lord angry.
And she got up and put himself on her face to the earth, and said, See, let your servant be a servant of the servants of my lord.
The first was put to death, and Jonathan and his armor were about twenty men, as long as they were in the field.
In that day God gave to Jabin, king of Canaan, before the children of Israel.
The bow of the strong is broken, and the feeble are clothed with strength.
And the men of Israel were named out of Naphtali, from Asher and from Manasseh; and they went after Midian.
And Saul was in fear of the face of David; for the Lord was with him, and he turned away from Saul.
If you have seen it, if it goes up to Beth-shemesh, he has done to us this great evil; and if not, then we have knowledge that his hand has not come against us: it has been made clear to us.
No, my sons, for it is not good that I have news: you make the people of the Lord to be broken.
God does so to the haters of David, and more more, if I go from all directions, so much as one child.
And the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
Go down before me to Gilgal, and I will come down to you, to give burnt offerings and peace-offerings to you, seven days till I come to you and give you what you are to do.
And they said to the responsible men of Gilead, If you send me back again to the children of Ammon, and the Lord gives them up before me, will I be your head?
So we say, The Lord is my help; I will not be troubled: what will man do to me?
He is able to have mercy on the foolish and wandering, because he himself is clothed with disease.
If any man has no memory of the law of Moses, he will have no mercy on the witness of two or three witnesses;
And Samuel said to Saul, Let me say what the Lord has said to me last night. And he said to him, Say.
Because you have not given ear to the voice of the Lord, or the heat of his wrath on Amalek, the Lord has done this day to you.
But there is no division for the little, but there is no cause for the greater.
And there were seventy sons who came out of his body, for he had much wives.
And they said to him, We have come down to put you into the hands of the Philistines, so that we may give you up into the hands of the Philistines. And the son said to them, Give me word that you may not come against me.
And when David had said these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and was crying.
And Midian was put to shame before the children of Israel, and they had no longer lifted up their head, and the land was resting forty years in the days of the rule of the Lord.
And they got up at Beth-shemesh in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark and was glad to see it.
For see, you are to give birth and have a son, and no one will come on his head: for the child will be a separate man to God from the body, and he will take Israel out of the hands of the Philistines.
And Abimelech went after him, and he went in flight before him; and many were put to death and wounded, even to the door of the doorway.
Now take your place and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes.
Why, as the Holy Spirit says, If you give ear to his voice,
And when the flames came up out of the town with a pillar of smoke, the sons of Benjamin saw them, and the flames of the town went up to heaven.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to their voice and make them a king. And Samuel said to the children of Israel, Go to your town.
And the children of Midian were put to shame before the children of Israel, and they had not been lifted up on their head, and the land was resting forty years in the days of the rule of the Lord.
And he took away the Amalekites and overcame them, and made Israel free from the hands of those who took it.
And the first, when Jonathan was put to death, and the armed men of war were cut off by the weight of twenty men, at the cutting of the field,
And David said to himself, Now I will be one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me, but I will be safe in the land of the Philistines; and Saul will not search for me in all the land of Israel, and I will get away from his hand.
And David said to Jonathan, See, tomorrow is the new moon, and I am not to go with the king with food; but let me go, so that I may go into the field till the third day.
And to those who were in the towns of the family of Jerahmeel, and to those in the towns of the Kenites,
And of the angels he says, Who makes his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire:
And his master said to him, We will not go to the town of a strange man who is not of the children of Israel, but we will go over to the town of Gibeah.
And this hope has been given to us as a mark of the soul, a hope and a certain hope, and in the inside of the veil;
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he said, Because this people has broken my agreement which I gave to their fathers, and have not given ear to my voice:
And he gave orders to Eglon, king of Moab; and he was very fat.
And David went in flight and got away, and came to the town of God to Ramah, and gave him news of all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and made their living-place in the town.
And the Lord was with Judah, and he took possession of the hill-country; but he was not able to put destruction on the people of the valley, because they had much war-carriages ready for war.
And David took the head of the Philistines and took it to Jerusalem, and put his arms in his tent.
And a woman put the sharp stone on the head of Abimelech, and crushed his head.
And the heads of the Philistines said, What these Hebrews are? And he said to the heads of the Philistines, Is not this David's servant David, king of Israel, who has been with me these days or these years, and I have not seen in him anything from the day of his downfall till this day?
And in the days of his flesh, when he had put up prayers and mercy for mercy, weeping and weeping to him who was able to keep him from death, and was full of fear in him:
And Saul was very angry, and he was angry with him; and he said, They have put an end to David's ten thousands, and to me they have made selection of thousands: and what will he have more than the kingdom?
To whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all the seed, to the first, to the king of righteousness, and to the king of Salem, who is king of peace.
And before they put the fat on the fat, the priest's servant came and said to the man who was offering, Give flesh to the priest, for he will not have cooked flesh of you, but be open.
And this will be a sign to you, who will come on your two sons and your two sons and their tents: in one day they will be put to death.
But I make request to you, brothers, give the word of encouragement, for it is but in a small word which I have given you.
And when Israel was planted, the Midianites and Amalek and the children of the east came up against them.
And Samuel said to Saul, You have done a foolish thing: you have not kept the orders of the Lord your God, which he gave you orders; for now the Lord has made your kingdom strong on Israel for ever.
But it is necessary for those who are full of food, and those who have knowledge of use have knowledge of good and evil.
For where there is a desire, it is necessary for the death of him who made the will to be made safe.
Then Samuel took a stone and put it between Mizpah and burning it, and gave it the name of it, saying, This is the way the Lord has given us.
And it is said, Today if you will give ear to his voice, do not make your heart hard as in the wrong.
And there was no saviour, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no use with any man: it was in the valley of Beth-Rehob, and they made the town and their living-place.
For the people were numbered, and there were not any of the men of Jabesh-gilead there.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the chiefs of Shechem; and Shechem was cruel to Abimelech,
Now take your place and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes.
And when all the men of Israel saw the man, they went in flight before him, and were very much afraid.
Why do you take pleasure among the flocks, to give ear to the cry of the flock? for the divisions of the children of Reuben were very great.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before the Lord in Gilgal, and there they gave offerings of peace-offerings before the Lord; and Saul and all the men of Israel were glad.
And she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me: let two months go to me for two months, so that I may go down on the mountains, weeping for my virgin, I and my friends.
And she said, Let your servant find grace in your eyes. So the woman went her way and had food, and her face was not sad.
But to the Son he says, Your seat, O God, is for ever and ever: the rod of righteousness is the rod of your kingdom.
And the Lord overcame Benjamin in the eyes of Israel; and the children of Israel overcame that day, and all the men of Benjamin were cut off by the sword.
And when he saw the people, he said to the Kenites, See, people come down from the tops of the mountains: and the people say to him, You see the shade of the mountains as men.
And his servants gave word to David, and the thing pleased David to be the son-in-law of the king, as the law had not come to the end.
And all the masters of Shechem came together, and all the houses of Millo, and came and made Abimelech king as king at the great tree in Shechem.
And Elkanah, her husband, went up, and all his house, to give an offering to the Lord, and made an oath.
And the chiefs of the Philistines went on by hundreds and by thousands; and David and his men went back on the back with a rod.
The Lord has mercy on me, because I have not put my hand on the king of the Lord; but now take the spear, which is at his head and the cup of water, and let us go.
In the days of sport, the son of lords, in the days of Salecah, the roads were not in place, but the travelers went by the way.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And he said to him, We are passing over from Beth-Mesopotamia to the hill-country of Ephraim, and I will go to the hill-country of Judah, and I will go to the house of the Lord, and no man will take me into the house.
The kings came and made war; and the kings of Canaan made war; at the waters of Megiddo they took no goods for themselves.
And the land had rest for forty years; and Othniel, the son of Kenaz, died.
And the children of Dan send five of them out of their family, and the men of war, the captains of Zorah and Eshtaol, to go to the land, searching it, and say to them, Go and see the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and the rest of them.
For if the blood of the ox and the ox and the dust of a cow has been put on those who have become unclean, so that they may be made clean by the flesh,
For the flesh of these beasts whose blood is taken into the holy place by the high priest is burned without the tent-circle.
And when they came down from the high place to the town, he said to Saul,
And the Lord looked on him and said, Go in this way, and you will keep Israel safe from the hand of Midian. Have not I sent you?
And the children of the families of the families of Moses went up from the town, with the children of Judah into the waste land of his heritage, which is on the south side of Arad; and they were living with him.
At this time tomorrow I send to you a man out of the land of Benjamin, and you have made him ruler over my people Israel, and he has kept my people safe from the Philistines: for I have seen my people, for their cry has come to me.
Wherever they went out, the hand of the Lord was against them for evil, as the Lord had said; and as the Lord had made an oath to them, and they were very sad.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and he gave them into the hands of Midian seven years.
And I will give no more flight from among the nations whom Joshua went away when he came to death.
The kings came and made war with the kings of Canaan, and the kings of Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no profit.
And when the time came about, she became pregnant and gave birth to a son, and named him Samuel, because she had said to him of the Lord.
He takes up the poor from the dust, lifting up the poor from the waste waste, to make his seat to be seated with great men; and he will give them a seat of glory, for the Lord is the man who takes the earth, and he gives them the world.
But Saul said to David, You will not go with the Philistines to fight with him, for you are only a child, and he has been a man of war from his earliest days.
And he took the responsible men of the town, and thorns of the waste land and thorns; and with them he gave teaching to the men of Succoth.
Then Samuel took a bottle of oil and put it on his head and gave him a kiss and said, Is it not because the Lord has put you over his heritage?
And David went over to the other side, and took his place on the top of the mountain, a great space between them.
And Saul, seeing David's voice, said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
And he said to the men of Peniel, When I come again in peace, I will be broken down.
So David and his men got up early in the morning to go back to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
Saying, This is the blood of the agreement which God gave you.
And it came to pass between the past, that Jonathan went to the army of the Philistines, and there was a rock on the one side and on the top of the rock on the other; and the name of the one was Cleopas, and the name of the other was named.
For some who had news did not make themselves angry, but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
But if you are in fear to go only, let your servant go down with you.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and, behold, Saul was sleeping in the carriage, with his spear stuck on the earth in his head; and Abner and the people were waiting for him.
And when he came, he was seated on a seat by the wayside; for his heart was moved for the ark of God. And when he came into the town, all the town was crying out.
And they said to him, We have come down to put you into the hands of the Philistines. And the son of David said to them, Give me word that you may not come on me.
So they went on and went away, and the sun went down on them on the side of the town of Benjamin.
Keep in mind those who are prisoners, and those who are evil, as you are in body.
And crying out to the children of Dan, they turned their faces and said to Micah, What is your business, that you go with such a company?
Even as it seems to me to take note of you all, because I have you in my heart, because you are in my chains, and in the undertaking of the good news, you are all in my grace.
And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord with the gold of gold, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered up burned offerings and burned offerings on the same day to the Lord.
And Eber, the wife of Heber, took the cords of the tent, and took the hammer in her hand, and went to him with gentle hands, and put the band in his houses, and put it on the earth; and he was sleeping, and he was overcome with grief.
And in no fear of your haters, who are to them a sign of destruction, but to you of salvation and of God.
So I said, I will not send them out from before you; but they will be like thorns in your sides, and their gods will be a snare to you.
For this reason Jesus, that he might make the people holy by his blood without the door,
And the Lord came and took his place in his place, and he was named by Samuel, the son of Samuel. And Samuel said, Give word, for your servant is hearing.
And they went up from Egypt, and went through the waste land to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And he said to him, Where is your mouth in that you say, Who is our servant Abimelech? is it not this the people against whom you have been angry? go out now and make war against it.
Now the hand of the Lord was hard against the people of Ashdod, and he put them to destruction and put them to death, with the use of Ashdod and its property.
And it was old, old, old, and hearing all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and that they had connection with the women at the door of the Tent of meeting.
Because of this he is to make offerings for the sins of the people and for himself.
Even so the Christ has been given to those who have been given the sins of many, to those who are looking for him the second time without sin.
And a messenger came to Saul, saying, Come quickly and come; for the Philistines have come against the land.
And Asher did not take away the people of Sodom, and the people of Zidon, and Mahlah, and Achzib, and Helkath, and Rehob, and Rehob;
For truly, as the Lord, the God of Israel, is living, who has kept me from fighting you, if you had gone quickly and come to me, certainly there would not have been left to the man of the dead of the morning of the morning light, as much as one who was in a wall.
And the woman came in at dawn, falling at the door of the man's house till the light.
And Saul said to Jonathan, his son, and to all his servants, to put David to death; but Jonathan, Saul's son, was glad in David.
See, today your eyes have seen how the Lord has given you this day into my hand in the hole, and they sent me to death; but I said, I will not put my hand on my lord, for he is the Lord's anointed.
And I said, See, I have come in the book of the book, to do your will, O God.
As it is right for me to take care of you all, because of my taking you in the heart and in my chains and in the undertaking of the good news, all of you have a part with me of grace.
And the six hundred men were armed with their weapons of war, of the children of Dan, at the doorway of the doorway.
And Shechem went out before the men of Shechem and attacked Abimelech.
For my life is Christ, and death is to me.
Now when it was old, he had news of all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and that they had sex relations with the women who were waiting at the door of the Tent of meeting.
But if you are without training, of which all of you have been given together, you are to take care of and not sons.
And you are to take the ark of the Lord and put it on the ark with the gold vessels, which you give to him as a sin-offering; put them in the vessel by the ark, and send it away so that it goes away.
And he said, I have come in peace: I have come to give offerings to the Lord; make yourselves holy, and come with me to the offering. And he made the father of Jesse holy, and his sons, and gave them a meal.
And all the men of Israel who had taken secret themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, hearing that the Philistines had gone away, went after them in the fight.
Only let your ways be true to the good news of Christ, that if I come and see you or be away, I may give ear to you, so that you may be kept in one spirit with one soul for the faith of the good news.
And it came to pass when he came to an end, that he put away his face from his hands, and he gave that place to Ramah.
And all the men of Shechem came together, and all the families of the town of Makkedah; and they went and made Abimelech king by the great tree in Shechem.
And so we have a great cloud over our head, putting away every weight and sin which is round us, let us go in waiting for the fight against us.
And those of the sons of Levi, who have the authority of the priests, have given orders to take a tenth of the people by the law, from their brothers, even from Abraham.
And as they were going down at the end of the town, Samuel said to Saul, Give ear to the servant, for he has gone on before us, but you are still waiting for you to give ear to the word of God.
And to those who were in Beth-el, and to those who were at Ramoth-gilead, and to those in Jattir,
And when he came, there was a man who had a dream to his neighbour, and he said, See, I had a dream, and there was a cake of barley in the tents of Midian, and came to the tent, and put it on it, and put it on it, so that the tent was flat.
Have no memory to do good, and to give credit; for by such a blessing is the grace of God.
For the word of God is living and hard, and more death than any two-edged sword; and to the division of the soul and the spirit, and the strength and the best.
And when he came to David, he said to him, As the Lord is living, you are upright and good in my eyes, and you will go with me in the tents; for I have not seen you evil from the day of your coming in to me till this day, and you are not good in the eyes of the rulers.
And he said, Let me go to death with the Philistines, and let me go down with the bow; and the house came down on the heads and on all the people who were in it. So the dead which he put to death was more than those he had put to death in his life.
Because the work of Christ was near to death, not for his life, to give effect to your needs.
And the Philistines were full of fear, for they said, God has come into the tent-circle. And they said, It is bad for us, because there has not been such a thing before.
It is a fear to fall into the hands of the living God.
But the men would not give ear to him; so the man took his wife, and took her out to them, and they had sex with her and made her waste all night till the morning. And when the dawn came, they let her go.
For if Jesus had given them rest, then he would not again have said about another day.
And the king was seated on his seat, as at other times, on the seat by the wall; and Jonathan was there, and Abner was seated by Saul's side, but David's place was wasted.
In those days the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
Saying, I will not give you a blessing, and I will give you great blessing.
And they said to them, He is before you; see, he is before you. Come quickly, for he came to the town: for there is a meal of the people on the high place.
And David took all the flocks and herds which they were driving before them, and said, This is David's property.
Make straight roads for your feet, so that the feeble-footed may not be moved, but be well.
And he turned back from the image of pictured stones at Gilgal; and he said, I have a secret word for you, O king. And he said, Be quiet. And all those who were before him went out.
But the number of his family is not taken from Abraham's family, and he has given his blessing to him who has the word.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites; for the people have kept the best of the sheep and the oxen, to make offerings to the Lord your God; and the rest we have put to destruction.
The Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel, and said to them, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: I have taken you up out of the land of Egypt, and I will take you out of a house of servants:
And in this cause men get a tenth of a tenth part, but it is clear that he is living.
And he had great instruments of brass on his feet, and a thick robe covered his neck.
And the chiefs of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? And he said to the chiefs of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who has been with me these days, or these years, and I have not seen him ever since the day of his downfall to this day?
For I have no one to do with one another, who will take care of you.
For all things were made to him because of him all things, and through him all things, to give glory to the glory of God, the God of their salvation.
And lifting up his eyes, he saw the night in the open place; and the old man said, Where are you going? and where have you come?
And the children of Israel went up to weeping before the Lord till evening; and they said to the Lord, Will I again come near against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the Lord said, Go up against him.
But I have thought it necessary to send to you, my brother, and a man of war, and a man of war, but your servant and his servant.
And when she had put his face on her knees, she sent a man, and she put him to cut off the hair of his head; and she became stronger and stronger, and his strength went from him.
Keep in mind those who are in chains with them, and those who are cruel, because you are in the body.
And his wife's wife was weeping before him; and she said, You are to hate me, and you have no love for me; you have given thought to the sense of my people, but you have not made it clear to me. And he said to her, I have not given it to my father and mother: why am I to give it to you?
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the town of the living God, in Jerusalem, and to a number of angels.
There is a word of Christ, even of envy and argument, and some of good things.
And Samuel said to the people, Have no fear: you have done all this evil: have not turned away from the Lord, and do the Lord with all your heart.
And he said to her all his heart, There is no loss on my head; for I have been a husband to God from my mother's body: if I have been cut off, then my strength will go from me, and I will become feeble and be like a man.
Do not put away your faith, for it is great.
And the land of the Amorites was from the direction of a scorpion, the rock, and the high places.
And all who had knowledge of him were yesterday and the day before, seeing that he was with the prophets, said, What is this that has come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And because of this he is the sign of a new agreement, because the death of the wrongdoing has been taken away by the first agreement, and those who are called by the name of the eternal heritage.
For this child I made prayer, and the Lord gave me my request, which I made for him.
All things you have put under his feet. For in that he has given all things to him, he has put away nothing that is not under him: but now we see not all things put under him.
And the number of those who put up the water with their hands were three hundred men; and all the people went on their knees to drink the water.
And all the people were hearing by the voice of one man, saying, We will not go back to our tents or any of us go into his house.
And after seven days, after the time of Samuel, he did not come to Gilgal, and the people were driving out from him.
And every day every day he takes his offering and makes offerings for a long time, which is never able to take away sin.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of the Lord and put it into the house of Abinadab in the hill-country, and made holy Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the Lord.
So that you may not be a hater of work, but the faith of those who have faith and the faith gives effect to the word.
And he built an altar to the Lord, naming it, saying, The Lord is peace. To this day it is in the middle of the house of Abihail.
Now Samuel had no knowledge of the Lord, and the word of the Lord was not clear to him.
And the ark of the Lord was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And they put the young ox to death, and they gave birth to the child.
And the images of war had been with them all the time the house of God was in Shiloh; and in those days there was no king in Israel.
See, I am a witness against me, against the Lord, and against his selection: whose ox I took, and whose ass I took away, and whose ass I had crushed, and whose hand I took away, and whose hand I took away, and put my eyes on it? And I gave you back.
And he was crying out to the young man who took his arms, and said to him, Take your sword and put me to death, or they will say of me, A woman put him to death. And his young man put him in death, and he was dead.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put up their tents at Gibeah, as time at time.
And the chiefs of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, so that we may give food to your army?
And the Philistines went on, going near to David, and the man took the body-covers before him.
And his brothers went down, and all the family of his father, taking him up, and took him up, and put him in his body, and put him in his body in the town of the town of his father, in the resting-place of his father, for twenty years.
And they went up into the town; and when they came into the town, Samuel came out against them to go up to the high place.
And when Saul had news that David had gone in flight to Gath, he was waiting for him no more.
And David was greatly troubled, for the people were stoning him, because the soul of all the people was troubled, every man for his sons and his daughters: but David took heart in the Lord his God.
And they gave no mercy to the house of Goshen, as he had done to Israel.
And they said to the responsible men of Gilead, Did you not hate me and send me out of my father's house? why have you come to me now when you are in trouble?
And the children of Benjamin did not send out the Jebusites who were living in Jerusalem; but the Jebusites were living with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
And we made war on the south of the Cherethites and the king of Judah, and the south of Caleb, and we burned him with fire.
May the Lord do so to Jonathan, and to Jonathan; but if my father does evil against you, I will have knowledge of it and send you away, so that you may go in peace, and may the Lord be with you, as he has been with my father.
But the hair of his head was to be cut off after it was cut off.
Do not let the desires of a strange man be foolish, for by chance there has been a man of angels without knowledge.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Be certain of yourselves, that our brother Timothy is free to be free; with whom he comes quickly, I will see you.
For the flesh of these beasts, whose blood is taken into the holy place by the high priest, are burned outside the tent-circle.
And you will cry out in that day because of your king's selection, and the Lord will not give ear to you in that day.
And he said to them, Why are you doing such things? for I have ears of your evil designs from all this people.
And when he was the Son of God, he had knowledge of the things which he had done.
Then Saul sent men to David's house to take care of him and put him to death in the morning; but Michal, his wife, said to David, If you do not keep your life at night, tomorrow you will be put to death.
So that every one of you may be able to give the full measure of hope to the end,
And David went out to the place where Saul sent him, and he gave him wisdom; and he put him over the men of war, and it was good in the eyes of all the people, and in the eyes of Saul's servants.
And they did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they gave no memory of their God, worshipping the Baals and Ashtaroth.
Say to all those who are about you, and to all the saints: Give your love to you from Italy.
And the hand of the Lord was hard on the town of Ashdod; and he made them waste, and put them to death with the sword and Ashdod and its country.
And he went up the way of the tents of those who were living in tents, on the east side of his tents, on the east side of the tent of meeting; and he put an end to the tent-circle, and the tents were safe.
So all the men of Israel came together against the town, together with one man.
Even though I have knowledge of all things but the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have undergone the loss of all things, and have put them to shame, so that I may have Christ.
So David enquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go and go up against these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go and attack the Philistines, and get up to the rest of the Philistines.
Because he had a desire for all of you, because you had had news that he was ill.
In Heshbon and its daughter-towns, and in Aroer and its daughter-towns, and in all the towns of the Jordan, for three hundred years, and for three hundred years, why have you been without effect?
And now, truly, the Lord is living, the God of Israel, who has kept me from doing evil with you; for if you had not been quickly quickly, and had come to me, there was no one who had been left of the sinner till the light of the morning, on the wall.
And Saul said to David, See, my older daughter Michal, I will give her to you as wife: only be strong for me, and fight against the Lord. For Saul said, My hand will not be against him, but the hand of the Philistines will be against him.
And see, and see of all the houses where he has been in secret, and you have turned back to me, and I have gone with you, and it has been, if he is in the land, so that I have taken him out through all the thousands of Judah.
For he who was made a little less than the angels we see because of the punishment of the death, with glory and honour, so that by the grace of God every one of them may be put to death.
And among all these people there were seven hundred men, ready to put stones on their heads, and put stones at the top of their neck, and they were not missing.
So that, my love, as you do, not as in my face only, but now much more in my need, with fear and fear of your salvation,
And the men of Gibeah came up against me, and came round the house because of me, and they were thought to put me to death, and they put shame on my wife, so that she was dead.
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for we have taken an oath in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord is between me and you, and between my seed and my seed for ever. So he got up and went, and Jonathan went in to the town.
And the Levites took down the ark of God, and the ark which was on the side of it, in which the vessels of gold were put on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh burned offerings and burned offerings that day to the Lord.
And Adam said to the angel of the Lord, Let us take care of you, and let us make ready a male goat for you.
If one man sins against another, the judge will judge him; but if a man sin against the Lord, who will make a request for him? But they did not give ear to the voice of their father, for the Lord would put them to death.
And the Lord came and took his place, and said, Samuel, Samuel! And he said, Give ear, for your servant is hearing.
Who by faith overcame kingdoms, who gave effect to righteousness and gave an oath, and stopped the mouths of lions,
And he overcame them with a great slaughter and with a great slaughter. And he went down and made his living-place in the hole of the rock of God.
And the things which you have seen and given ear and seen in me, these things do; and the God of peace will be with you.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth, and put his body on the wall of Beth-Shan.
And Saul went down on the earth all on the earth; for he was troubled by the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had no bread all that day.
And all the men of the tower of Shechem had news, and they went into the walled place of the house of the god.
And Saul said to the people who were with him, Send the roll and see who has gone from us. So they gave the roll and saw that Jonathan and his war-men were not there.
And he put it on the plate, in the pot, on the pot, in the pot, in the pot, and in the pot; and all the vessels of the fire took up the priest's food; so they did in Shiloh to all the children of Israel.
And all things by the law are made clean with blood, and without death there is no forgiveness.
And they went up and put up their tents in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah; and they named that place Dan, to this day: See, it is in the middle of Kiriath-jearim.
And Samuel the child took care of the Lord before his name, and the word of the Lord was great in those days; and there was no more vision.
To God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. So be it.
And when she had news of the noise of the weeping, he said, What is the noise of this trouble? And the man quickly came and gave birth to a word.
For he did not take on him the flesh of angels, but took on him the seed of Abraham.
And all the people were cutting down every man his branches and went after Abimelech, and put them to the grip and put a fire on them, so that all the men of Shechem had dead men and women.
Not in the agreement which I made to their fathers, on the day when I took them by the hand to take them out of the land of Egypt: because they did not keep my agreement, and I did not take care of them, says the Lord.
So that we may be like all the nations; and our king will judge us, and go out before us, and give us life.
And the children of Israel went back to Baal after the Baals; and they made themselves worship as a god.
And Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land; see, I pray you, how my eyes are shining, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
And after Abimelech, there went up against Israel: Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodai, a man of Issachar; and he was living in the hill-country of Ephraim in the hill-country of Ephraim.
For as long as the son of Jesse is living on the earth, you will not be strong or strong; why then send and get him to me, for he will certainly be put to death.
And the sons of Benjamin did the same; and they took wives for themselves from the instruments of music, and went back to their land; and they put up the towns, and they were living in them.
And they saw Sippai, the son of Barachel, and they were fighting against him; and they put to death the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And Saul came to the town of Amalek, and put an attack in the valley.
And when Abigail saw David, she quickly got off from her ass, and falling down before David on her face, she went down on her face.
All Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba saw that Samuel was a prophet of the Lord.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on the rod, and he blew the horn, and Abiezer was joined after him.
And Samuel said to all Israel, See, I have given ear to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.
And he said to God, If you will give Israel salvation by my hand, as you have said,
And Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went to Shechem, and the men of Shechem put their faith in him.
Then he sent out to the young man who took his armor and said to him, Take your sword and put me to death, that they may not say of me, A woman put him to death. And his young man put him in flight, and he was dead.
How much less will you be judged, being judged by the name of the Son of God, who has taken the blood of the agreement with which he has been made holy, and has done to the Spirit of grace?
But he made sport of the words of Israel, so that he did not let him go through his land: but there was a great number of people, and went out against him to Jahaz, and made strong fighting.
But to which of the angels he has said, Be seated at my right hand, till I make your haters a footstool for your feet.
For the law has a shade of the coming of good things, not even the image of the law, by the same offering, by the same offerings which they make, is never able to make perfect those coming near;
But it is necessary for me to send to you, my brother, and to my friend, and to the man of war, and to the man who is working for me.
And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, was a hundred and ten years old.
And from the other side of Gibeah, ten thousand were taken out of all Israel, and the war was very hard; but they did not see that trouble came on them.
For he who has these things has been given to another tribe, from which there is no man who takes care of the altar.
Take care of those who have authority over you, and take yourselves under yourselves: for they are watching for your souls, so that they may do it with joy and not with sorrow: for that is wrong for you.
For all the land has come into the woods, and honey is in the field.
So I have given him orders to the Lord; as long as he is living, he will be made to the Lord; and he will give worship to the Lord.
In which your fathers have tested me, they have tested me and saw my works for forty years:
Then Samuel took a young lamb and gave it to the Lord for a burned offering to the Lord; and Samuel was crying out to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord gave him an answer.
And let us go near with a true heart of faith, having our hearts dropped from an evil heart, and our bodies washed with clean water.
And Saul came after the cattle out of the field, and Saul said, What is the people of the people weeping? And they gave him the words of the men of Jabesh-gilead.
And Samuel said, What is this clear thing to the sheep of my ears, and the voice of the oxen which I give hearing?
And David went back from Saul to take care of the flock of his father at Beth-lehem.
So Saul went back from the pursuit of David, and went against the Philistines; and they sent for the place where the Philistines were.
For all the orders which had been given by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of the ox and the he-goats, with water and red wool and hyssop, and put them on the book and on all the people;
And he said to him, Have no fear; for Saul my father has no knowledge of you, and you are king over Israel, and I am to you for the second, and even for Saul my father.
For it was right for him to whom all things, and through whom are all things given to God, to give glory to the first, the first of the salvation of their salvation.
So that no man is to be a man of the flesh or of the flesh of the flesh, like Esau: for he has given his birthright to one another.
So that God may do so to the haters of David, and more more, if I go from all that is to him by the light, so much as to a wall.
And let us take note of one another to make love and good works.
Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God and took it from the hand of Ashdod.
And he will take your daughters to make perfume, and to take care of yourself, and to be a chief bread-maker.
And Saul's servants said to him, See now, an evil spirit from God is troubling you.
And the olive-tree said to them, Should I go out of my wealth with which they give glory to God and man by me, and go to be lifted up and out over the trees?
Keeping the word of life, so that I may be glad in the day of Christ, so that I have not gone in vain, and have no work for nothing.
And all the men of Shechem said to him in the ears of all the men of Shechem, for they said, He is our brother.
And now I am certain that you will be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be in your hands.
And when the people came into the woods, they saw the honey dropped, but no one put his hand to his mouth: for the people were afraid of the oath.
Why do you go in flight at my offering and in my offering, which I have given orders in my house, and give honour to your sons more than me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And the children of Ephraim were sent together and went over the north, and said to them, Why did you go against the children of Ammon, and did not let us go with you? We will be burned with fire on you.
You have loved righteousness and hate evil; so God, your God, has given you the oil of joy over your friends.
But those who go out of argument say to the Christ, Do not put the faith in mind, because they have made trouble for my chains.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Am I still to go out to fight against the children of Benjamin my brother, or will I put an end? And the Lord said, Go up, for tomorrow I will give him into your hands.
And Zebulun did not send out the people of the land, or the people of Sela; but the Canaanites were living among them, and became hard for forced work.
And God gave ear to the voice of Adam, and an angel of God came back to the woman in the field, and her husband was not with her.
For you have need of patience, so that, having done the will of God, you may take the word.
And for forty years, and for forty years, was it not with those who had sinned, whose bodies were dead in the waste land?
And the Lord was with Judah, driving out the people of the hill-country, for he was not able to send out the people of the valley because they had breastplates of iron.
The shame of Christ is greater than the wealth of the Egyptians, for he saw the reward.
For still a little while, he who comes will come, and will not be waiting.
You will not take away your mercy from my house for ever, when the Lord will have taken away the haters of David, every one of them from the earth, and he will take Jonathan from his house, and the Lord will take care of it by the hands of David's haters.
And when he came, he saw a dream to his neighbour, and he said, See, I had a dream, and there was a cake of barley in the tents of Midian, and came to the tent, and put it on it and made it unclean, and the tent was moved.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to themselves, May the Lord be a witness between us if we do not give orders to you.
He has mercy on those who are without knowledge, and who are wandering in error, because he himself is troubled with disease.
And as it is put up for men to be put to death, and after this cause,
And the chief of the king said to him, If it is possible for the hands of the hands of the hands of Jonathan and of the men of Jabesh-gilead, so that we may give food to your army?
And Saul made an altar to the Lord, and he was building an altar to the Lord.
And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Give praise to the Lord; I have done the word of the Lord.
And when Israel became strong, they put the Canaanites to forced work and did not send them out.
And the king said, Make search for your son the young man.
And David made an oath again and said, Your father has knowledge that I have given you grace in your eyes, and he said, Do not let Jonathan see this, or he will take care of it: but as the Lord is living and as your soul is life, there is a way between me and death.
And they saw a man, an Egyptian, in the field, and took him to David, and gave him bread, and he took food and gave him water to drink.
And the hair of his head is to be cut off, when he is cut off.
And Jonathan sent for David, and Jonathan gave him all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, and he was before him as in times past.
And Saul did not say anything on that day, for he said, He is not clean; he is not clean.
And they took Saul's head and took away his goods, and sent him into the land of the Philistines round about, to make a public statement in the houses of their gods and their people.
And they came together to Mizpah, pulling water, draining it out before the Lord, and went without food on that day, and said there, We have done evil against the Lord. And Samuel was judged by Samuel in Mizpah.
But he, whose body was not numbered among them, was given the tenth part of Abraham's and blessing him who had the word.
And they who are of the sons of Levi, who take the priesthood, have given orders to take a tenth of the people by the law, to say, of their brothers: for they themselves came out of the body of Abraham.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the wise men of Moab, Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon to the Jabbok, and to the Jordan; and now the land is quiet.
And she got up at Shiloh, and was overcome with wine at Shiloh, and the priest was seated on a seat before the door of the house of the Lord.
And Israel sent representatives to Sihon, king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, Let us go through your land to our land.
And Saul said, May God do so to me and give me more more; for you will be dead, O Jonathan.
They will be cut off, but you will be put to rest; they will all be old as a robe.
In Heshbon and its small towns, and in Aroer and its small towns, and in all the towns which are in the Arnon, there were three hundred years; and why did you not get them back at that time?
Now there was a sharp rock on the one side and a sharp rock on the other side of the Philistines; and the name of the one was veiled, and the name of the other.
And after him the town of Elon, the chief of the children of Zebulun, was judging Israel for ten years.
Let your love be for love.
By faith Abel gave an offering to God more than Cain, by which he had given witness to himself that he was upright, and God gave witness to him, and he was dead still.
And if they had been named to mind that they went from there, they had a chance to come back.
And they took away the prisoners who were in them, and they put to death no one, great or small, but took them away and went on their way.
And the Philistines said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of heaven and to the beasts of the field.
For to you it has been given to you in Christ, not only to have faith in him, but also to undergo for himself.
And he said to her, Give me a little water, for I am in need of water. And she put a bottle of milk and gave him a drink and covered him.
And David said to Jonathan, See, tomorrow is the new moon, and I will be seated with the king for food, and you have sent me away, and I have been kept in a field till the third evening.
And Jonathan was good to his father Saul, and said to him, Do not let the king sin against his servant, against David, because he has not done evil against you, and because his works have been very good to you.
And Samuel went back after Saul, and Saul gave worship to the Lord.
And Abimelech was king over Israel for three years.
And when they were near the land of Jebus, the day was far away; and the servant said to his master, Come, let us go to this town of the Jebusite, and let us be living in it.
The same is Jesus Christ and this day and ever.
And turning round from him to another, he said to him in the same way, and the people answered him as before.
And they gave no memory of the Lord their God, driving them into the hands of Sisera, the captain of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab, and they were fighting against them.
So they came to Mizpah and got water and put it out before the Lord; and they went without food on that day, and said, We have done evil against the Lord. So Samuel gave the children of Israel to Mizpah.
And all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, so that we may not be put to death: for we have given all our sins to this evil, to make request for a king.
And he took a young man from Succoth, questioning him; and he gave orders to him, the rulers of Succoth, and the responsible men, seventy men.
For we are the circumcision, worshipping by the Spirit of God, and glory in Christ Jesus, and have no faith in the flesh.
And Saul said, Make clear yourselves among the people, and give orders to them to give me every man his ox and his sheep, and put them to death on this stone and take them to death; and let all the people take his ox with him till the night and put them to death there.
And the people came to the house of God, and there was still there before God; and they lifted up their voices and cried bitterly.
So then, that the powers of heaven may be made clean with these things, but the things which are in heaven are better than these.
For there is a man who is a saviour in Israel: for a people will give praise to the Lord.
But Jonathan, the son of Saul, was glad to David; and Jonathan said to David, My father Saul is looking for you to put you to death: now, take care of yourself till the morning, and be in a secret place, and take cover.
For all the orders which had been given by Moses by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of oxen and goats, with water and red wool and hyssop, pulling the book and all the people.
And when he saw that Saul was dead, he was put to death with his sword.
Because you did not keep the voice of the Lord, and did not put his wrath on Amalek, the Lord has done this to you this day.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines to make sport of every man his business, and his blade, and his axe, and his goods.
And as the angel of the Lord had said these words to all the children of Israel, the people were weeping bitterly.
And Enoch was made by faith, not to see death, but was not seen, because God gave orders to him: for before his death he had been given witness to God.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and made war against it, and came near the door of the tower to be burned with fire.
And David again said again to the Lord, Up, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
And David said to Abimelech, the priest, The king has given me a request, and he has said to me, Let no man have knowledge of the business which I send you, and what I have given you orders; and I have given the young men to such and such a place.
And I took Saul to be king for king, because he had turned away from me, and my words he had not done. And it was evil to Samuel, and he cried to the Lord all the night.
And in the morning Jonathan went out into the field for David and a child with him.
And they put the ox to death, and the young was given to him,
But there was a great fear of the coming of punishment, and a flame of fire for the destruction of the haters.
And he made himself a day of rest a second day, saying by David a long time, saying, Today if you will give ear to his voice, do not make your hearts hard.
And the men did so, and took two milk cows and put them on the cart, and shut up their calves at the house.
So the young men went on their way, and went back again and gave him all these words.
But if you are in fear to go down, go and go with your servant down to the tent-circle.
In that year they crushed and crushed the children of Israel, for eighteen years, all the children of Israel who were across the Jordan in the land of the Amorites in Gilead.
And laughing made a promise to the Lord, saying, If you will give the children of Ammon into my hand,
And he put seventy men among the men of Beth-shemesh, looking into the ark of the Lord: and the people were sad because the Lord had given a great blow among the people.
Saying, I will make your name clear to my brothers; in the middle of the church I will make melody to you.
And David said to Abimelech, the priest, The king has given me orders to do something, and he has said to me, Let no one have knowledge of the business which I send you, and what I have given you orders: I have sent the young men to a certain place.
And let every tongue say that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And Saul said to his young man, See, we are going, and what do we give in to the man? for the bread has gone from our vessels, and there is not a gift to the man of God.
And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, In this condition I will make it with you, so that all your right eyes may be put out, and I will put it to shame on all Israel.
And tasting the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come.
Of whom we have much to say, and hard to be lifted up, because you have become feeble.
And Jonathan said to David, Come, let us go out to the field. So the two of them went out to the field.
And Micaiah said to him, Where have you come from? And he said to him, I am a Levite from Beth-lehem in the land of Judah, and I will be living in a strange country wherever I may find a place.
For to you it is given to you for Christ, not only to have faith in him, but also for his sake.
You have no pleasure in all the burned offerings and offerings of sin.
This is the sign of the Holy Spirit, that the way of the holy place was not made clear to the first of the holy place.
There was a man of Zorah, of the family of the children of Dan, who was named by name, and his wife was without children and without children.
Have we foolish men, that you have come in this man to make sport of the man who is mad before me? will this man come into my house?
And be seen in him, not having my approval, which is of the law, but that which is by the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is by God by faith:
There is no evil in his eyes, but all things are without clothing and open to his eyes, to whom our words are.
In the same way, God, desiring to give more to the heritage of the undertaking of the undertaking of the undertaking which he had made,
By faith he was living as a strange man in the land of a strange land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, having the same as a heritage.
And the priest gave him holy bread, for there was no bread there, but the bread which was taken away before the Lord, to put bread on the day when it was taken away.
And on the day when the people got up early, they made an altar there and burned offerings and peace-offerings.
And God took the hollow place of the hollow place, and water came out from it; and he was drinking, and his spirit came back to life, and he gave birth to his life. And it was named, The Well of the Stone, which is still to this day.
And the House, a holy place, is holy.
And the war came back again, and David went out and went with the Philistines and overcame them with a great slaughter, and they went away from his face.
And God gave effect to the evil-doing of Abimelech, which he did to his father, to death for seventy brothers.
And I will keep their sins and their wrongdoing no more.
And when Saul had news that David had gone in flight to Gath, he was waiting for him no more.
In that day they gave up their voices, and said,
And as they were going down at the end of the town, Samuel said to Saul, Give your word to the servant to go before us, and go on; but keep yourself in a minute, so that I may make clear to you the word of the Lord.
Saying, This is the blood of the agreement which God gave to you.
And the bands of war went out from the tent-circle of the Philistines in three divisions, and a division went on the way to Ophrah.
Not that I am looking for the present, but for the fruit which is increased for your account.
And Michal took an image and put it in the bed, and put his head on his head, and covered it with a cloth.
And David said to the men who were waiting by him, What will be done to the man who overcomes the Philistines, and take away the shame of Israel? for who is this man of the earth, the Philistines, to make sport of the armies of the living God?
Now then, take away my sin, and come again with me, so that I may give worship to the Lord.
For as long as the son of Jesse is living on the earth, you and your kingdom will not be made strong: then send him to me, for he will certainly be put to death.
For this reason he was to be made like his brothers in all sorts of fear, so that he might be a man of mercy and true priest, in order to make payment for the sins of the people.
You have not increased, you have said, The old has gone out of your mouth; for the knowledge of the Lord is the Lord's knowledge, and by him is the work of his hands.
And he put his faith in her, and said to her, My head has never been put to death, for I am a man of God from birth: if I am cut off from my strength, I will be like all the rest of the earth.
I had regret for Saul to be king, for he has turned back from me, and has not kept my orders. And Samuel was angry, and he cried to the Lord all night.
And the angel of the Lord put out the stick which was in his hand, and he took the meat and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up out of the rock and burned up the meal and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of the Lord went out from his eyes.
Now in these last days has been given to us by his Son, whom he has put over all things, by whom he made the world.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and gave worship to the Baals and the gods of Aram, and the gods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they went away from the Lord and gave him no respect.
And they went through the waste land and went round the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came on the east side of the land of Moab, and they put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon, for the Arnon is the limit of Moab.
And being seen in form like a man, he made himself low, and became the way of death, even the death of the cross.
And the spirit of God was in power over Saul, and in his hearing these words, and his wrath was burning.
And he said to him, Where is your glory, O you who say, Who is Abimelech, that we may serve him? Is this not the army which you have put to shame? go out now and fight against them.
And let these signs come to you, so that you may be your servants, for God is with you.
And after him was Abdon, the son of Harim, who was the Pirathonite, who was the ruler of Israel;
And all the people of the Philistines came together to Aphek, and Israel put up their tents by the fountain of Jezreel.
And I took him from all the tribes of Israel to be a priest to me, to go up to my altar, to make perfume and to take an ephod before me; and I gave to the house of your father all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel.
And she said to her servants, Go before me, and I will come after you, but she did not say to her husband of the widow.
And they said to Joash, Take your son here, so that he may be put to death, because he has broken the altar of Baal, cutting down his Asherah.
And the three hundred sounding the horns, and the Lord put every man's sword on his neighbour through the tent-circle; and the army went in flight to the town of Abel-beth-maacah, to the end of Abel Hepher, with the bath.
And when the people saw him, they gave praise to their gods: for they said, Our god has given us into our hands our hater, and the destruction of our country, which have been put to death.
And the angel of the Lord said to another, If you keep me, I will not have enough of your bread; and if you make ready a burned offering, give it to the Lord; for a man has not seen that he was the angel of the Lord.
And the man had no pleasure in the night all night; and he got up and went and came to the town of Jebus ( that is, Jerusalem), and with him a couple of asses, and his wife was with him.
And Saul took the spear and said, I have overcome David through the wall. And David went back from his face.
O Lord, the God of Israel, why is the cause of evil come to your people, to take away from among us this day?
And make clear to your memory the first days, in which, having been full of knowledge, you have undergone much trouble.
For I have no other opinion of you, who will keep you safe.
In the days of sport, the son of Gallim, in the days of Jaea, the roads were turned away, and the travellers went by the way.
And Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and went to see David and his men on the rock of the field.
And Saul said, Give me the burned offering and the peace-offerings; and he gave up the burned offering.
The judge is lifted up by the Lord, and he gave them salvation from the hand of those who took away their goods.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what is good in your eyes: let the Lord keep his word, and let the Lord give effect to his word. And the woman went in and gave her son to her son till she was a child.
Even as Zebah and Zalmunna said, Up and fall on us; for as the man is, so is his strength; and as for Zebah and Zalmunna, and as for Zebah and Zalmunna, and put the ornaments of their camels on their backs.
Then he made prayer to the Lord, saying, Let me, my Lord, be pleased with the man of God whom you sent again to us, and give us orders what we may do to the child who is to be born.
And he said, What have you done? And he said, Because I saw that the army was driving out from me, and you did not come at the time when the Philistines came at Michmash,
And if not, fire came out from Abimelech, and burned up the owners of Shechem and the house of Millo, and fire came out from the masters of Shechem and from the house of Millo and came to Abimelech.
And he made prayer to the Lord and said, O Lord, let the man of God which you sent come again to us, and give us teaching what we may do to the child who is to be born.
And when the people of Ashdod got up early on the day, they saw their faces and their faces to the earth in front of the ark of the Lord; and they took their place of Dagon and put him in his place again.
And there was another war; and David went out with the Philistines and overcame them with a great slaughter; and they went in flight before him.
And David got up and went over, he and the six hundred men with him, to see the son of Nahash, king of Gath.
The mountains were moved before the Lord, even Sinai before the Lord, the God of Israel.
And Saul sent men to take David; but she said, He is ill.
Then Abimelech went to the town of the Chaldaeans and put up his tents against him and took it.
And there was a gold altar for burning perfumes, and the ark of the agreement was plated with gold, a vessel of gold in keeping with the manna, and the rod of Aaron, which was over it, and the tables of the agreement;
And Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
And the Lord said, Judah will go up, and I will give the land into his hands.
By the two table things which are necessary for God to be false, but a strong comfort we may have who went in flight for a place to take the hope before,
And his wife's wife was weeping before him, and said, You have hate me and have no love for me: you have given up the sense of the children of my people, and have not made it clear to me. And he said to her, See, I have made it clear to my father or mother, and I will make it clear to you.
Then Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what will we take the man? for the bread is gone in our vessels, and there is no present for the man of God. What have we?
And now, let not my blood be put to death on the earth before the Lord: for the king of Israel has come out to search like a bird, like a bird wandering in the mountains.
Let it be clear to the training of the training: for God has given you the same children: for what is the son of a father without training?
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the mercies of Christ Jesus.
There is no one holy as the Lord, for there is no one beside you; there is no Rock like our God.
And Joash said to all those who were against him, Do you make a request for Baal? do you give him salvation? the man who takes his place for him is put to death in the morning; if he is a god, he will make a request against him, because he has broken down his altar.
To whom Abraham gave the tenth part of all; first, the king of righteousness, and the king of Salem, which is the King of peace.
And Samuel was getting up, and the Lord was with him, and did not let his words come to the earth.
For if Jesus had given them rest, he would not have said again about another day.
And Saul said, Come near here, all the chiefs of the people, and see, and see where this sin has been this day.
And Samuel did what the Lord said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the responsible men of the town were shaking with fear at his coming, and said, Why do you have trouble?
And David had news in the waste land of the waste land, which was the wool of his sheep.
And who will give ear to you about this thing? For as the part of the one who went down into the fight, so the part of those who were with it will be for the same.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered on that day out of the towns, twenty thousand men of war, besides the men of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
So that through them I may make a decision to Israel, if they will keep the way of the Lord, as their fathers did, or not.
And one of the servants said to Abigail, the wife of Nabal, who said, See, David sent men out of the waste country, requesting our master, and he let them go.
And has tasted the good word of God, and have the power of power to come.
In the days of Shelomoth, the son of Gad, in the days of Hosah, the roads were not moved, and the men went by the way.
And again there was war; and David went out with the Philistines and put them to death with a great slaughter; and they went in flight before him.
So he took the army and put them in three divisions, and he put an secret place in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the town, he got up against them and put them to death.
And they said, What is the sin offering that we are to come back to him? And they said, The number of the chiefs of the Philistines is five, and put five sorts of gold and five gold, because the disease was on all of you and all your rulers.
And the Philistines came together with all their armies at Aphek; and Israel put up their tents at the spring of Jezreel.
And he said to Jether his oldest son, Up, and put them to death; but the young man did not put his sword in flight, because he was still a child.
By my desire and my hope, so that I will be put to shame in nothing, but with all boldness, even as Christ will be lifted up in my body, whether through life or through death.
And Samuel said, Send all Israel to Mizpah, so that I may make prayer to the Lord for you.
And he said, Give ear now, O son of Ahitub. And he said, Here I am, my lord.
And she said to him, See, you have been untrue to me, and have said to me falsely: Now make clear to me, that you may be put to shame.
But Asher was living among the Canaanites, and the people of the land, because they did not send them out.
So they sent the ark of God to Ekron, and as the ark of God came to Ekron, crying out, They have taken the ark of the God of Israel to us, to put us to death and to our people.
Let her take no food of anything that comes from the vine, or drink wine or strong drink, or take anything unclean; let her keep all that I have given orders.
And her father said, I thought that you had a great hate for her: so I gave her to you: is not her younger sister than she? take her, I pray you, for her.
So now, give up the men who are in the town at Gibeah, so that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel. But Benjamin would not give ear to the voice of their brothers, the children of Israel.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, with David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David went in flight to get away from Saul, for Saul and his men were about David and his men round about to take them.
How much more if the people had well to do this day because of the wealth of its haters which it has been seen, for now the destruction has not been great among the Philistines.
But he whose family is not numbered from them has taken the tenth of Abraham, and he has given him his blessing.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Am I still to go out to fight against the children of Benjamin, my brother? or will I put an end? And the Lord said, Go up; for tomorrow I will give him into your hands.
And all the land of the Amorites, from the Arnon to the Jabbok, and from the waste land to the Jordan.
And he went down and talking with the woman, and she was pleased with the woman.
And the asses of Saul, the father of Saul, were lost; and he said to Saul his son, Take, I pray you, one of the young men with you, and get up and go looking for the asses.
Gilead is on the side of the Jordan, and the House of the House of Dan: how is it that he is living in the direction of the sea? Asher has been at the farthest part of the seas, and by his moving places are the tent of meeting.
And the servants of Saul said to him, This is what David said.
So his father went down to the woman and made a feast for his son, the son of Shimea, for the young men were doing.
And he said to them, I would make a request for you, that you would give me the rings of his goods: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
And most of the brothers, put in the Lord's faith in my chains, even more to say the word without fear.
And Micaiah said to him, Where have you come from? And he said to him, I am a Levite in the land of Judah, and I go to a living-place where I may be there.
And they made themselves unclean with strange gods, worshipping them, and quickly went away the way which their fathers had gone; and they gave ear to the orders of the Lord, and they did all things.
This is what the Lord of armies has said: I have seen what Amalek did to Israel, when he went up out of Egypt.
And the man said, I am he who came out of the army, and I went in flight today out of the army. And he said, How did the thing go, my son?
And the responsible men of Jabez said to him, Let us send us for seven days, so that we may send representatives to all the country of Israel; and if there is no one to make a decision against us, we will come out to you.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
This is the blood of the agreement which God gave you.
But hard food is necessary for those who are full of the flesh, who have knowledge of the things which are necessary for the purpose of the good and evil.
And the people, the men of Israel, took their heart, and put up their position in the place where they put themselves in position the first day.
And the house of Joseph sent to the town of Beth-el, and the name of the town was Luz.
And Hananiah said, My heart is glad in the Lord; my horn is lifted up in the Lord: my mouth is open wide over my haters, and I am glad in your salvation.
And now, give up the men, the sons of Evil men, who are in Gibeah, so that we may put them to death and put away evil from Israel: but Benjamin would not give ear to the voice of their brothers, the children of Israel.
And they said, Who is one of the tribes of Israel who has not come up to the Lord to Mizpah? And see, no one came to the tent-circle from Jabesh-gilead, to the meeting of the people.
And Saul came after the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, What the people are weeping? and they gave him the words of the men of Jabesh-gilead.
Whose end is destruction, whose god is the stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, who have thought of earth.
And his mother's brothers were talking about him in the hearing of all the masters of Shechem, saying, He is our brother.
And David went after them, and he and four hundred men went after him; for two hundred men were waiting for them, so that they might not go over the river.
And Jehoash, the son of Joash, was dead in a good old age; and he was put to death in the resting-place of his father Joash, in the place of the house of the Rechabites.
And Jonathan made a agreement with David's house, saying, The Lord will take care of it at the hand of David's haters.
Though I, myself, have put my hope in the flesh, if any man is certain that he has faith in the flesh, I still am still.
And the servants of Saul said to him, This is what David said.
And Samuel was dead; and all Israel had a grief for him, and they put him in the earth in Ramah, in his town. And Saul had put away the readers of spirits and the readers of the Chaldaeans out of the land.
For this cause Jesus has made a good agreement for himself.
And when he had put the rods on fire, he let them go to the grain of the Philistines, and burned up the waste and the grain and the olive-trees.
And the women were glad as they were dancing, and said, Saul has sent down his thousands, but David has ten thousands.
And the living men of the unwalled places were stopped in Israel; and when it came to the end, when I was a mother in Israel, there was a mother in Israel.
See, the king is walking before you: I am old and full of hair: see, my sons are with you: I have gone before you from my youth to this day.
And again the name of the Lord came from the third time, and he got up and came to Heli,
And they got up early; and about the spring of the day, Samuel sent to Saul on the roof, saying, Up, and I will send you away. And Saul got up and they went out from them, he and Samuel.
And they said to the foolish, Come and be our captain, so that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
And there were not the priests of Dagon, or any of those who went into the house of Dagon, on the doorway of Ashdod to this day.
And he was living in the land as a strange man in the land of promise, as in a land not his heritage, living in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the sons of Israel.
And to those who were in Hormah, and to those who were in Mesopotamia, and to those who were in war,
And when Saul came from the field after the cattle, he said, What is the thing with the people weeping? And they gave him a account of the words of the men of Jabesh.
For such a high priest has been given to us, who is holy, without a man, without a man, and without a sinner, and a separate place from sinners, and made himself higher than heaven;
And when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, went in flight to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And he said to him, See, you are become old, and your sons do not go in your ways: now give us a king to judge us, like all the nations.
For the Sabbath is rest for the children of God.
And the Lord overcame Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel were cut off from the tribe of Benjamin that day, twenty thousand and five thousand: all these were taken swords.
And after they had taken it round, the hand of the Lord was against the town, a very great destruction; and he sent destruction on the men of the town, from small even to great; and they went out on them.
And they said to one another, Who has done this thing? And when they were questioning, they said, The son of Joash has done this thing.
So let us be full of fear, so that any one of you may seem to be cut off by his word.
And Abigail came to the widow of Nabal; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and the heart of the sinner was glad inside him, because he was very drunk, and she gave him no more than the morning light.
And they got up in the morning, and it was now to be light; and Samuel sent Saul on the top of the house, saying, Get up, and I will let you go. And Saul got up, and they went out with Samuel.
Now a young man from Beth-lehem, of the family of Judah, was a Levite, and there he was living there.
And now, O king, by all the desire of your soul, come down, and let us be shut up to the king.
But the thing was evil to Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. So Samuel made prayer to the Lord.
For this cause he is the judge of a new agreement, having been put to death because of the punishment of the sins which were under the first agreement, so that those who have been named may have the word of eternal heritage.
See, there are a tenth of those who are put to death, but there is a tenth of the things which are given to him that he is living.
And Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and went to see David and his men on the rock of the field.
Now when he had made an end of talking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his soul.
So Saul and his three sons and his body-covers and all his men were on the same day.
But I have hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you quickly, so that I may be quiet, having knowledge of what you get on.
And there were still in Hebron, and to the rest in those places where David was living with his men.
The fighting was hard against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly troubled by the archers.
And the number of those who had had water, putting it with the hand to their mouth, were three hundred men: and all the people were drinking wine.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel said to the Lord, Which of us will go up against the Canaanites first to fight against them?
And he made request for her water, and gave him milk, and gave him milk in a plate of spices.
And Jonathan gave his arms to the child and said to him, Go and take them into the town.
Then Saul said to the Lord, the God of Israel, Give a blessing, for Saul and Jonathan were taken away, but the people got away.
Let a bride be honoured among all, and let the bed be free from the bed: for God will judge the evil and the false man.
No man takes this honour on himself, but he is named by God, like Aaron.
At the end of all the men of Gilead, the people of Gilead were fighting with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead overcame Ephraim, because they said, You are safe of Ephraim, in the middle of Ephraim, and in the middle of Manasseh.
And his mother made a robe for him, and he took it to him year by year, when she came up with her husband to make a meal offering.
Even as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he went after them; and he took away the two kings of Midian with Zebah and Zalmunna, and all the army were troubled.
And I am certain that I am certain that I will be living with you, for your salvation and joy of faith.
A servant of the holy place, and of the true House, which the Lord put up, not man.
And the angel of God said to him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and put them on this rock, and put out the soup of spices. And he did so.
And he made him a sword which had two ends of a cubit long, and put it on his robe on his right leg.
And the sons of Benjamin said, They are put to death before us as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight, so that we may go out to the roads.
And we desire that every one of you may make clear to the full effect of hope to the end:
For such a high priest was right for us: holy, without faith, without faith, cut off from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;
And when the evil spirit of God was on Saul, David took an instrument of music with his hands, and he was comforted and was well, and the evil spirit went away from him.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
And her husband got up and went after her, and he went with her, and took her back with his servant and two asses, and took him into her father's house. And when the girl's father saw him, he was glad to see him.
And when the Zidonians and Amalek and those who have been cruel to you, you cry to me, and I have kept you safe from their hands.
For it is God who works in you the right pleasure and the working for good pleasure.
And the wall of Jericho came down on the wall of Jericho seven days.
And Abimelech went after him, and he went in flight before him; and a great number of people was wounded at the doorway of the doorway.
And they said to him, Keep quiet, put your hand on your mouth, and go with us, and be to us for a father and a priest: is it better to be a priest to the house of one man, or to your father, or to a tribe of Israel?
And the Philistines got up and came to David, and David went quickly to the fight to see the Philistines.
You have no pleasure in all the burned offerings and offerings of sin.
And Samuel said to him, The Lord has taken away the kingdom of Israel from you, and has given it to your neighbour who is better than you.
And a man of Benjamin went out from the fight, and came to the same day to Shiloh, and his clothing was broken and earth was on his head.
And he put out a certain ass of the ass, stretching out his hand and took it and put a thousand of it on it.
By faith, Isaac gave blessing to Jacob and Esau;
Then all the children of Israel got up from the places where they were, put their armies in order, in the place which is named Baal. And there was a surprise on the town, and there was little and little in flight.
And when the burning was lifted up out of the town, Benjamin saw that the whole town went up to heaven.
For you have made a design against me all against me, and no one has uncovered my ear about my son's agreement with the son of Jesse; and there is no one who has sorrow for me, and has uncovered my ear, so that my son has made my servant come up against me, to keep waiting as this day.
Who may have mercy on the foolish, and on those who go out of the way; for he himself is full of disease.
And Adam said to his wife, We will certainly be put to death, because we have seen God.
And the angel of the Lord said to Adam, Let the woman give attention to all my words.
And they went back to the house of the young man, the Levite, to the house of Micah, and said to him,
And I took her and cut her in pieces, and sent it into all the land of your heritage: for there was no sin in Israel, and there was no sin in Israel.
And Jehoash said to all who were against him, Will you make a request for Baal? will you give him salvation? let him be put to death while it is still in the morning: if he is a god, let him make request for himself, for he has put down his altar.
Go down before me to Gilgal, for I will come down to you, and you may make an offering and peace-offerings of peace: seven days you will be waiting for seven days till I come to you, and I will make clear to you what you are to do.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and gave thought to the Lord their God, and gave worship to the Baals and the Asherah.
If, then, had the rest of the divisions of the Levites, for the people under it had been given law, what need will be given by the order of Malchijah, for a priest to get up, and not to be named by the order of Aaron?
And when they went up the road to the town, they saw young women coming out to get water, and they said to them, Is this the man here?
Are they not all the desires of the spirits, sent to take care of them, who will get the heritage of salvation?
And Saul saw that the Lord was with David, and Saul's daughter Michal was dear.
And he said, I have come to give offerings to the Lord: make yourselves holy, and come with me to the offering; and he made Jesse and his sons holy, and he sent them to the peace-offerings.
And they said to him, See, you are old, and your sons do not go in your ways: make us a king to judge us, like all the nations.
And Judah took away Gaza and its country, and Ashkelon and its land, and Ekron and its land;
And Micaiah said to him, From this day I will be upright in what I do against the Philistines: for I will do you evil.
And the sons of Saul: Jonathan and Ishvi and Malchi-shua and the names of his two daughters: the name of Michal the first, and the name of the younger woman.
And Gilead took the side of the Jordan to Ephraim, and it came to pass when one of the men of Gilead said, Let me go by. And the men of Gilead say to him, You are your wife. And he said, No.
And Saul was greatly afraid of David; and Saul was the hater of David all the time.
And Samuel took a stone and gave it to Mizpah; and it was named to him, saying, This is the way the Lord has given us.
And when they had seen it, they said, There was no such thing in Israel from the day our fathers came up out of Egypt till this day: give orders and make clear what is to be done.
And to Jesus the copy of the new agreement, and to the blood of death, than the witness of Abel.
Then it came to the name of Samuel, and said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
And when she came to him, she made him requesting a field for her father; and she got down from her ass, and Caleb said to her, What would you do?
And the children of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What evil is this that has come among you?
And Samuel said, Why then do you say to me, The Lord has gone away from you, and is your hater?
And the angel of the Lord said to Adam, Take care of all that I said to the woman.
And Jesse gave his name Abinadab, and took him before Samuel. And he said, This is not the Lord's selection.
And the children of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord; and the Lord made it hard for Eglon, for they had done evil in the eyes of the Lord.
And she made a vow, saying, O Lord, of armies, if you will see the trouble of your servant, and keep me in mind, and not forget your servant, and give to your servant a male child, I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no one will have a razor on his head.
Who had no day by day, as the high priests, first to make offerings for his sins, then those of the people: for this was the same for ever.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth, and put them on the wall of Dor.
Only give your lives to the good news of Christ, so that if I come and see you or am away from you, I give ear to you that you are strong in one spirit, with one soul with one mind for the faith of the good news;
And they were crying out to the Lord, and said, We have done wrong, because we have been turned away from the Lord, and have given worship to the Baals and the rod, but now give us salvation from the hand of our haters, and we will be your servant.
And he was living in the land of the Canaanites, and they did not put them to death.
And Samuel said to the cooked cook, Take the land which I gave you, which I said to you, Give it to you.
And he said to him, Far be it from me that you may not be put to death: for my father will have nothing great or small, and no one has said to me, Am my father kept this word only from me? No, this will not be.
And he said to him, The number of men, whom you put to death in Tabor, said, These men were like you, and one of them as the king's son.
But if it is thorns and thorns, it is turned away and cursed, and whose end is to be burned.
And there was a prophet named a prophet, the wife of the woman, who was judging the people.
For this man is thought of greater glory than Moses, because he who makes it greater than the house.
And the word of Samuel was to all Israel; and Israel went out to see the Philistines for war, and they put up their tents at Aphek; and the Philistines put up their tents at Aphek.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, went in flight and were troubled.
But this man, because he has come to an end, has a fixed priesthood.
How much more will the blood of Christ, which he has given to God by the eternal Spirit that he has not been able to give himself to God, to make your heart clean from death to the living God?
And the people would not give ear to the voice of Samuel, saying, No, but a king is over us.
And when Saul had come to Keilah, Saul said, God has made him known to my hands, for he has been shut in, to go into a town of doors and in a doorway.
May the Lord be the judge, and let him judge between me and you, and let him see my cause, and let him be my judge.
And the spirit of the Lord came on Saul, and when he had heard these words, his wrath was very burning.
When the people came to the woods, they saw honey dropping out honey; but no one put his hand to his mouth: for the people were afraid of the oath.
So they went on and went away, and the sun went down on them at Gibeah, which is for Benjamin.
And she said, The glory of God has gone away from Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
So David got up early with his men to go back in the morning to go back to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And David gave answer to the priest and said to him, The women have been kept from us about these three days; when I came out, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was but a land's journey: how much more will their vessels be holy?
And the Lord gave them into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan, who had ruled in Hazor, and the head of Sisera, and he was living in the air.
He put fire into the fire, and he let the foxes go into the mass of the Philistines; and he burned up the mass of grain and the grain meal, to the vine-gardens of olive-trees.
So God overcame that day, as Jabin, king of Canaan, before the children of Israel.
Of whom the world was not good, in the waste land and in the mountains and in holes and in the holes of the earth;
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to fight against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim, and Israel was very sad.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Naham, the son of Zerahiah, the son of Mica, the son of a Benjamite, a man of wealth.
And Judah took Gaza with its limit, and Ashkelon with its outskirts, and Ekron with its outskirts.
Is this not this not David of whom they make sport of us, saying, Saul has put to death his thousands, but David, his ten thousands?
And they got up early; and when the morning came up, Samuel sent to Saul on the roof, saying, Get up, and I will send you away. And Saul got up, and they went out.
When he saw that he had no desire for you all, and in sorrow, because you had news that he was troubled,
Even as it is right for me to be in mind of you all, because I have you in my heart, and in my chains, and in the undertaking of the good news, you are all in my grace.
And he said to the children of Israel, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I took Israel out of Egypt and gave you salvation from the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hands of all the kingdoms of your hands.
And the children of Israel had pity on Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And it came to the end of the time, that she had been talking in her heart, and her lips were moved, and her voice was not able to be heard, so she said,
And when he had endured, he took the oath.
And David went from there to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother come with you till I see what God will do for me.
For such a high priest has been given to us, holy, without faith, without number, cut off from sinners, and was higher than the heavens:
And Adam made prayer to the Lord, and said, O my Lord, the man of God whom you sent, let him come in, and let us give us orders what we do to the birth of the young man.
And they went back and went in flight to the waste place of Rimmon, to the top of Rimmon, five thousand men, and went after them to go after them, and put to death two thousand men.
And they said to them, He is before you; see, he is before you. Come quickly, for he has come today into the town, for the people have a offering today in the high place.
And what more will I say? For the time has come to me, that I may make a record of the words of the Lord, the son of Barachel, the son of Imnah, the son of Imnah, the son of David, the son of Samuel, and the prophet.
For when they had news, they were angry; but not all came out of Egypt by Moses.
And his wife was untrue to him, and went away from him to the house of her father in Judah, and was there four months.
And Saul's brother said to him and to his servant, Where did you go? And he said, To search for the asses; and when we saw that they were not there, we came to Samuel.
And this is what you are to do: every male or woman who has connection with man may be put to death.
And Joash, the son of Joash, was dead in a good old age, and was put to death in the resting-place of his father, who was in the house of Machir, who was in the house of Gad.
And the thing was evil for Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord.
And Melchizedek, king of Salem, the priest of the Most High God, came to Abraham from the death of the kings and gave him his blessing;
And his arms said to him, Do all that is in your heart: let your hearts be turned; see, I am with you in your heart.
And David said, What have I done now? is there no cause for a cause?
The legs of the horse were crushed by the rod, and the weight of their strong ones.
And when she had weaned him, she took him with her, with three oxen and an ephah of meal and a bottle of wine, and took him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh: the child was young.
If anyone comes out of the doors of my house, and comes to me when I come back in peace from the children of Ammon, I will give a burned offering to the Lord.
Then Abijah went down to Timnah, and saw a woman of the daughters of the Philistines.
For the Lord takes note of the man whom he has loved, and will give punishment to every son whom he has pleasure.
And on the fourth day they got up early in the morning, and when he was ready to go, the father of the young woman said to his daughter-in-law, Give me care of food, and then you may go.
Zebulun has not taken away the people of the land, and the people of Succoth; and the Canaanites are living in it, and they are forced to work.
And the spirit of the Lord went on him, and went down to Ashkelon; and he put to death thirty men from them; and he took their goods, and gave special robes to those who had knowledge of the sense: and he was angry and went up to his father's house.
And David said to Abigail, Happy be the Lord, the God of Israel, who sent you today to see me:
And the Philistines went after Saul and his sons; and the Philistines overcame Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And he went back to Ramah, for there was his house; and there he was judged by Israel, and there he made an altar there to the Lord.
There is no one holy as the Lord, for there is no other; there is no Rock like our God.
But as for us, dear friends, we are glad about all things of you, and things that go with salvation, even though we say:
And the woman gave birth to a son, and gave birth to the name of the child, and the child became a child, and the Lord gave him blessing.
And every one got up in his place round about the tent-circle; and all the people went in flight, crying out as they went in flight.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were crushed, because the people were troubled, they were kept in holes and in holes and in holes and in holes and in holes.
And they made a agreement before the Lord; and David was living in the woods, and Jonathan went to his house.
But they took away the form of a servant in the form of men,
And he took away the king of Amalek with the sword, and overcame all the people with the sword.
And have come to life again: to be changed again, and to be changed again to the Son of God, and to make sport of him.
Not that I have no respect for need, for I have knowledge of what I am to be in it.
Do not put your servant before a foolish woman, because of the number of my thoughts, and of my wrath, till now.
Make a question to your servants, and they will say to you: Now let your servants be good in your eyes: for we have come in a good day, whatever your hand may give to your servants and your son David.
And David came to Ziklag, and sent the men of war to the chiefs of Judah, saying, See, you are a blessing, of the goods of the Lord's haters.
And when the king got up early, he got up early with all the people who were with him, and they put up their tents by the water-spring; and he had the tents of Midian by the hill of Moreh.
And when David saw that Saul had come out to search for his life, and David was in the waste land of Ziph,
Let us keep the faith of our faith without doubting, for he is true to his word.
But David went back from Saul to take care of his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
I have no need of need, for I have had knowledge of myself in what I am.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons, and he went on his way on seventy ass, and he judged Israel for eight years.
By faith Rahab, the loose woman, has not been put to death with those who were not sinners; for she took the men of men in peace.
And Samuel said to all the people of Israel, If with all your heart you are turned back to the Lord, take away the gods of the strange man from among you and Ashtaroth; give your heart to the Lord, and be his servant, and he will keep you safe from the hands of the Philistines.
Let your curse be cursed, says the angel of the Lord, curse the people who are living in it, because they did not come to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against the strong.
And he said to her, If you go with me, I will go; but if you do not go with me, I will not go.
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go away, get you down from the Amalekites, or I will send you to destruction with them: for you have mercy on all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites went away from the Amalekites.
And David and all the people who were with him were weeping and weeping till they had no power to cry.
Now when the Philistines had news that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah, the chiefs of the Philistines went up against Israel; and when the children of Israel had news of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, the son of Ahimelech, give me the linen ephod. And Abiathar took the ephod there to David.
And questioning the Lord for him, he gave him food and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And here are some of those who are going to death from death, but there is a tenth of them, but there is a witness among them.
And Saul was very angry, and his words were evil in his eyes; and he said, They have given up to David ten thousands; but to me they have given up the thousands, and are there more for him but the kingdom?
Go and call on the gods which you have taken; let them give you salvation in the time of trouble.
Whose voice was the voice of the earth, but now he says, Still I will not go on the earth but heaven.
Of whom the world was not good, wandering over on the earth and on the mountains and in holes and in holes and in holes.
And they said, What is the sin offering which we will go back to him? And they said, Five of gold, and five of gold, like the number of the lords of the Philistines, because the disease was on you all and on your heads.
And he said, Why does my lord go against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in my hand?
If you undergo training, as God has given you his heritage, who is a son whom a father does not give punishment?
And the Lord looked on him and said, Go in your strength, and let Israel go out of the hands of Midian: see that I have sent you.
But I have all things, and have increased; I am full, and have taken away the things which came from you, a sweet smell of a sweet smell, a offering pleasing to God.
And he took the three hundred men into three parts, and put the horns in their hands, and put out the vessels with the lights in the vessels.
And Saul said to David, See, my older daughter Michal is to give you your wife; only be strong for me, and fight against the Lord. For Saul said, Let not my hands be on him, but let the Philistines be on him.
And it was so; he got up early the day, crushing the wool from the wool, and draining out the drops of dew from the drops of water.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to their voice, make them a king. And Samuel said to the children of Israel, Let every man go to his town.
And a certain woman put a sharp stone on Abimelech's head, and took his head.
And when you saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, came against you, you said to me, No, a king will be king over us, though the Lord your God is your king.
For this cause even the first agreement was not made clear without blood.
By the window she was looking down, and the mother of Sisera was crying out through the window, Why is his carriage waiting for a long time? why do the doors of his carriage be waiting?
And Saul was looking for the spear through David, and through the wall; and he was angry with Saul, and he put the spear through the wall; and David went in flight and went in that night.
For it is clear that our Lord has come out of Judah, about which Moses has said nothing against the priests.
And it will come to pass, that every man who is left in your house will come and bow to him for a bit of silver and a cake of bread, and will say, Put me to one of the priests' orders, so that I may take a bit of bread.
Now then, my lord the king, give ear to the words of your servant: If the Lord makes you come up against me, let him take his offering: but if the sons of men are cursed in the eyes of the Lord, who have sent me out this day, that I may not be living in the heritage of the Lord, saying, Go to strange gods.
And they will give you their love, and give you two loaves of bread which you will get from their hands.
Even as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he went after them; and he took away the two kings of Midian, like Zebah and Zalmunna; and all the tents were troubled.
And Samuel said, How am I to go? if he has news of it, he will put me to death. And the Lord said, Take a young cow with you, and say, I have come to give an offering to the Lord.
So they took away the images, the ephod, and the images and the metal images. And the priest said to them, What are you doing?
For the earth, which is the drink of the rain, comes on it, and gives food to those who are clothed with food, because of those who are clothed in the body of God;
And they went through the land of Jabez, and had not seen them; they went through the land near Salim, and they were not there; and through the land of Shelah they did not find them.
And there was a man named selection of Zebulun and Naphtali, and the men of Israel went with him.
For our life is in heaven, and from where we are looking for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
Because of your fruits from the first day till now,
And David made an oath to Saul, and he went to his house, and David and his men went up to the strong place.
And when they were living in the tower of Shechem, they went into the house of their god, where they had made a agreement with him, and from there the place had taken its name, and it was very strong.
And by day after day she gave birth to her words, and desiring to get him, his soul was troubled to death.
And Benjamin came back at that time, and they gave them the wives they had given to the women of Jabesh-gilead, but they had no need for them.
And it was said to Saul, David is in the town of Ramah.
So make strong your feeble hands and your feeble knees.
And Saul sent representatives to Jesse, and said, Send to me your son David, who is with the flock.
And the people of Gilead said to one another, Who is the man who will make war with the children of Ammon? he will be head over all the people of Gilead.
And Samuel said to the people, Come and let us go to Gilgal, and make the kingdom new again.
And again he has a day, saying in David, To day, after a long time; as it is said, If you will give ear to his voice, do not be hard-hearted.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Take the ark of God; for on that day the ark of God is with the children of Israel.
And the Amorites were living on the top of the mountains, in Aijalon, and in Bene-jaakan; but the hand of the house of Joseph was hard, and they became forced to work.
And they took sheep and oxen and oxen and oxen and put them to death on the earth; and the people took their food with the blood.
And the people sent word to Shiloh, and they took the ark of the agreement of the Lord of armies, who is seated between the winged ones, and the two sons of the selection of God, the chief of the Levites, the chief of the agreement.
Who by faith overcame kingdoms, who did what was right and what was said, shut the mouths of lions,
God has given into your hand the chiefs of Midian and Oreb and Zeeb: and what have I been able to do with you? And their wrath was turned to him when he said that.
And the Spirit of the Lord will come on you, and you will be prophets with them, and be changed into another man.
And Samuel said to him, The Lord has put the kingdom of Israel away from you today and gave it to your neighbour who is better than you.
And David went up from there, and took his living-place at En Gedi.
And when she saw that he had given news to her all his heart, she sent for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he has given me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up to her and took the money in their hands.
And when he went up, he went up by the way of those who were living in tents on the east side of the east, with weeping and weeping, and overcame the tent-circle; for the tents were at its rest.
And after him was Abdon, the son of Shelomoth, a Pirathonite, who was responsible for Israel.
For this cause, as the Holy Spirit says, Today, if you give ear to his voice,
And there were six hundred men of Benjamin, six hundred men who were able to go out to the waste land; and they were living in the rock for four months.
And he gave orders to Eglon, king of Moab; and he made it very fat.
And I will put three arrows on the side of it, and I will send out three arrows.
And the wife of Gilead gave birth to his sons; and when his wife's sons got up, they gave birth to laughing and said to him, You are not to have a heritage in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman.
And Caleb said, I will give my daughter Achsah as wife to the man who overcomes Kiriath-sepher and takes it.
My heart goes out to the chiefs of Israel, and those who give themselves freely among the people: give praise to the Lord.
And after the second veil, the House which was named the holy place,
And the priest said, See, the sword of Goliath, the Philistines, whom you have put to death in the valley of God, is covered in a cloth after the ephod: if you are to take it, take it; for there is no other place except that. And David said, There is no one like that. Give it to me.
For he was ill and almost to death, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him only, but on me, so that I might not have sorrow on sorrow.
But in them there is a sign of sin in them year by year.
And she said to her, How long will you get away? put away your wine from you.
Your servant put to death the lion and the bear; and the last of the Philistines is like one of them, seeing he has made sport of the armies of the living God.
And Abijah went down to Timnah and saw a woman in Timnah by the daughters of the Philistines.
And he took his rod in his hand, and took him five smooth stones out of the stream, and put them in the bag of the keeper which he had, even in his bag; and he put his arrows in his hand, and he went near to the Philistines.
For you yourselves have knowledge that when he comes later to take his heritage, he was put to shame; for he had no place for a change of mind in his father, though he kept it with weeping.
Go after peace, and be holy, without any man to see the Lord.
For see, you are to give birth to a son, and a son will no longer come on his head: for the child will be a man of God from the body, and he will come to salvation Israel out of the hands of the Philistines.
And Abishai said to David, God has given up your enemy into your hands this day: now let me put an end to him with the spear on the earth, and I will not put him to death again.
For if the blood of the ox and of the oxen and the dust of a cow makes unclean those who are unclean, holy to the clean of the flesh:
And he sent and took him in. And he was red, and in addition to a beautiful face and beautiful face. And the Lord said, Get up, put oil on him, for this is he.
And when all Israel had news of it, Saul had the army of the Philistines overcome, and Israel was fighting against the Philistines; and the people went after him to Gilgal.
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the town of the living God, in Jerusalem, and to the great number of angels.
It is a fear to fall into the hands of the living God.
And David, questioning the Lord, said, If I go after this army, will I overtake them? And he said to him, Go after them; for you will overtake them, and you will not get well again.
But Saul and the people were cruel to them, and the best of the flock, and the best sheep, and the oxen, and the lambs, and all that was good, and they were not able to put them to destruction: but everything was turned to shame and put to destruction.
And do not be troubled by those who are against those who are against them; for this is the sign of destruction, and of salvation, and of God.
And the old man said, Peace be to you: let me give you all your needs, and do not sleep in the street.
And he came to the house of his father in Ophrah, and put to death his brothers, the sons of Libya, seventy persons on one stone; but Jotham, the youngest, the son of Jerub-baal, was waiting for himself.
And all these things were true by the word of faith, not having the word of God.
He had thirty sons seated on thirty value, and they had thirty towns; and they gave them the name of Jair, to this day, in the land of Gilead.
But to the measure which we have, let us go by the same rule; let us be of the same mind.
You will see the trouble of my living-place, and all the good things for Israel; but there will never be an old man in your house for ever.
And they said, What is it that we have to give to him for sin? And they said,
For this cause I was angry with this generation, and said, They have no knowledge in their hearts, but they have no knowledge of my ways;
And as he was talking with them, there was a great man, the Philistines of Gath, whose name was Goliath's name, out of the army of the Philistines, and said the same words, and David gave ear to them.
And he said to her, Get up, and we will go. And there was no answer, and he took her on the ass, and the man got up and went to his place.
And if any man says to him, Let them not be without cause to put the fat at once, and then take as much as your soul desires. Then he will say to him, No; but if not, I will take it by force.
And again the third time, the name of the Lord came to Samuel, and he got up and said, Here am I; for you have been my servant, and she saw that the Lord had given him the child.
And when the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel, they said to her, David has sent us to you to take you to his wife.
And they were almost far from the house of Micah, when the men who were in the houses near the house of Micah were gathered together and overtook the children of Dan.
You have love righteousness and hate evil; because of this he has made selection of you, O God, your God, with oil of joy over your friends.
And David said to Abishai, Do not put him to death: for who is able to put out his hand against the Lord, and be free?
And I said, Because you had hated her, so I gave her to your friend: but she has a sister who is younger and better than she, and take her to wife for her.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to go before the Lord this holy God? and to whom will he go up from us?
And as Samuel was turning away, he put on the robe of his robe, and was sad.
See that God is able to get up from the dead; from where he has been taken up, he will take him back again.
Then Saul went to the town of Amalek, waiting in a valley.
And Benjamin came back at that time, and gave them the women whom they had kept from Gilead; but they were not enough for them.
Then the Spirit of the Lord came on laughing, and went over Gilead and Manasseh, and went over to Mizpah, and went over to the children of Ammon.
And after the veil was a holy place, the holy place was holy.
And he said to them, I have a desire for one of you: give me the request of your goods, for the bands of the Ishmaelites were made in gold.
And he said to their father, Zebah and Zalmunna, How is the men of whom you put to death in Tabor? And they said, As you are, like the form of the king's sons.
And the children of Dan sent five of their families out of their country, and the captains of Zorah and Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land; and they said to them, Go and see the land. When they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they were there.
And David said to Saul, Why do you give ear to the words of men, saying, See, David is looking for your evil?
And the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you be sad about Saul? I have put an end to him from being king over Israel: put up your horn with oil and go, and I will send you to Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem, for I have made a king for myself among his sons.
But this is the way, when it is made clear when it is moved, so that what is not moved may be stopped.
And when the Philistines had news that the children of Israel had come together to Mizpah, the chiefs of the Philistines went up against Israel; and when the children of Israel had news of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
For if he was on the earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are priests who give the offerings by the law.
And when it was a blessing for Elkanah and his wife, he said to him, May the Lord give you seed of this woman, for you have taken his debt to the Lord, and they went to their place.
For six years Israel gave punishment for Israel; and she came to an end in the land of Gilead, and was put to death in one of the towns of Gilead.
And having been made complete, became to all those who keep him, even the God of eternal salvation.
And they went away from the Lord, and gave worship to Baal and to the rod.
And Jonathan did not have news of the words of his father for the people, and he put out the stick in his hand, and put it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes saw.
And you have said this day that you have done well with me, because the Lord has given me up into your hand, and you have not put me to death.
Let not my lord be a man of the evil man of the dead, for as his name is, so that he may be named the wife of the sinner; and I will not see the young men of my lord whom you sent.
And Saul said to the people who were with him, Take a number and see who is missing from us. And when they were numbered, Jonathan and his men were not there.
But Christ has come to the high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and complete tent, not made with hands, which is to say, not of this building;
Now go and take away Amalek, and put an end to all that he has; do not take care of him, or take care of anything which is his: but put to death every man and woman and child and sheep and sheep and sheep and ass.
And Abimelech and the people who were with him went forward, and took their place at the doorway of the town, and the two captains went running to all the people who were in the field, and put them to death.
And he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and went through the land of deceit, but they did not find it; and they went through the land of Ararat, and they were not there; and they went through the land of Benjamin, and they did not find it.
By faith Rahab the harlot did not come to death with those who had no faith, but had taken the men of men with peace.
And Abimelech was told that all the men of Shechem were together.
Now the words which David had said were given to Saul, and he sent for him.
But we are not of those who go back to destruction, but of those who have faith in the salvation of the soul.
And the Levite was united with the man, and the young man became as one of his sons.
Have no memory of the guests of strange men, for they have had knowledge of the angels without knowledge.
So they cut off his head, and took off his robe, and sent representatives round the land of the Philistines to give news in the houses of their gods and the people.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred bits of silver, which you put aside for yourself, and what you have put in my oath, see I have, and they are with me. And she said to him, Happy be my son by the Lord.
And Saul was still in fear of David; and Saul was the hater of David ever.
Now faith is in secret, waiting for things which are not seen.
And he put Israel to death for three and twenty years; and he went to death and was put to death in the town of Jair.
And I will take care of my wife, cutting her in pieces, and send her into all the land of Israel: for they have done evil and foolish in Israel.
And Saul took the spear, for he said, I will put David to death even to the wall. And David went back from before him twice.
And David and all the people who were with him lifted up their voice and were weeping, till there was no longer a cry.
All the people went into the woods, and honey was on the earth.
And again there was a second time, and said, See, people are coming down from the high parts of the land, and one company is coming by the way of the great tree.
And he had thirty sons, thirty daughters, and thirty daughters for his sons, and seven years for Israel.
The children of Benjamin were numbered on that day out of the towns for twenty-six thousand men who took the sword, besides the men of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
And fear in the army, and in the fields, and among all the people, the armed men and those who came to war were shaking with fear, and the earth was shaking, and the earth was shaking with fear.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, even Oreb and Zeeb; and they put to death at the rock of Oreb, and with like Zeeb; and they went after Midian, driving the heads of Oreb and Zeeb on the other side of Jordan.
For the glory of Moses is greater than Moses, because he is greater than the building of the house.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the people of Shechem; and Shechem was cruel to Abimelech.
By faith he has been living in the land of the undertaking of a strange land, living with Isaac and Jacob, having the same heritage,
So that through them I may make a decision to Israel, if they will keep the way of the Lord, as their fathers did, or not.
The chief priest was named by God, as the order of Melchizedek.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord; and the Lord gave orders to Eglon to make it hard for Eglon, because they did evil in the eyes of the Lord.
And it came to pass, when the men of Midian went after the people of Sisera, and Shimei came out to see him, she said to him, Come, and I will let you see the man whom you are looking for. And he came with her, and saw that he was dead, with the cord in his house.
And David came to Ziklag and sent some of the goods to the responsible men of Judah, saying, This is a reward for you from the goods of the Lord.
I will keep the memory of their sins and their wrongdoing no more.
For they say these things, so that they are looking for a country.
For this reason Jesus has become a witness of the agreement.
And David made an oath to Saul, and Saul went to his house; and David and his men went up to the walled place.
But six hundred men went back to the waste land, to the rock of Rimmon, and stayed in the rock of Rimmon four months.
A fear of God is falling into the hands of living God.
And early in the morning they got up early in the morning, and there were haircloth on his face before the ark of the Lord; and the head of Dagon and the hands of his hands were cut off on the doorstep, and only the work of Dagon.
And Israel was very feeble from the face of Midian, and the children of Israel cry out to the Lord.
And when she had sent him hard with her words, she took care of him, so that his soul was troubled.
And now, the blessing which your servant has given to my lord, it is given to the young men who go up at the feet of my lord.
Then he said to all Israel, Be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do what seems good to you.
There is nothing to do with a man's pride or a man's pride, but in his pride he is better than himself.
For in that he himself has been tested by himself, he is able to give help to those in need.
And when the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, and those on the other side of the Jordan, saw that the children of Israel had gone away, and Saul and his sons were dead, they left the towns and went in flight; and the Philistines came and made their living-place in them.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines and overcame them till they came under the attack.
And the Lord will be between you and me for ever.
And when the people came into the tent-circle, the responsible men of Israel said, Why has the Lord put us to death before the Philistines? let us take the ark of the agreement of the Lord from Shiloh to us, so that when it comes among us, it may be safe from our haters.
And on that day he said, The name of Baal is against him, because he has broken down his altar.
And David took these words to heart, and was greatly afraid of the king of Gath.
And the angel of God said to him, Take the flesh and the unleavened bread, and put it on this rock, and let the soup be drained out. And he did so.
And Samuel got up and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the men who were present with him about six hundred men.
In those days there was no king in Israel; there was a Levite, a Levite, living in the mountains of Ephraim, and took a woman of Beth-lehem in Judah for himself.
For the dead bodies of those whose blood is taken into the holy place by the high priest is burned outside the tent-circle.
And one of the people said to one of the people, Your father gave orders to the people, saying, Cursed is the man who takes food today today, and the people are feeble.
For they are judged for a short time, as it seemed good to them, but he for profit, in order to be holy.
The Lord will judge between me and you, and the Lord will take care of you; but my hand will not be on you.
And we have taken ten men of one hundred men of all the tribes of Israel, a hundred thousand of a thousand, and a thousand of a thousand, to take care of the people at Gibeah of Benjamin, because of all the foolish things which it has done in Israel.
And Abimelech and the men who were with him were cruel to him, and took their place at the door of the town, and the two men were pushing against all who were in the field and put them to death.
And all the people got up as one body, saying, Not one of us goes to his tent, or let us go back to his house.
And Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Come with me into my country, so that we may fight against the Canaanite, and I will go with you in the same way. So Simeon went with him.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will make prayer for you to the Lord.
Because he did not make a priest without the oath,
And Samuel said, Are you not, if you are only little in your eyes, heads of the tribes of Israel? and the Lord will put on you king over Israel,
How much more will the blood of Christ be able to give himself to God by the eternal Spirit, to make our hearts clean from the dead?
In your going today, you saw two men by the body of Rachel, in the land of Benjamin, at Zilpah, and they said to you, The asses have been seen which you have come to search for; and, behold, your father has gone out of the hands of the asses and has sorrow for you, saying, What do I do for my son?
And David came to Ziklag, and sent to the responsible men of Judah, to his friends, saying, See, here is a meal for you of the destruction of the haters of the Lord:
And the children of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord, and worship the Baals.
And David, questioning the Lord, said, If I go after this army, will I overtake them? And he said to him, Go after them; for you will overtake them, and you will not get well again.
And he will take one tenth of your sheep, and you will be his servants.
And when he gave back the money to his mother, his mother took two hundred shekels of silver and gave them to a man of silver, who made an image and a metal image out of it, in the house of Micah.
But I was glad in the Lord, so that now you have been comforted for me, for whom you were thinking, but you had no chance to say it.
And Saul said to David, See now, my older daughter, whom she will give you to wife: only be strong and fight against the Lord. And Saul said in his heart, Let not my hands be on him, but let the Philistines be on him.
And all things by the law are made clean with blood, and without death there is no forgiveness.
And they put their places in his place round about the tent-circle, and all the people were running, crying out and running away.
And the men of Israel, in addition to Benjamin, were numbered of all four hundred thousand men, men of war.
And when they came to the land of the Kohathites, Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come and let us go back; or my father will take care of the asses and take care of us.
For this cause, brothers and brothers, have faith in the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
By which will we be made holy through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; they came in like the locusts for a number of locusts, they and their camels without number; and they came into the land to put an end to it.
Make my joy to you, so that you may be in one mind, having the same love, being of one mind.
And he took a young man out of Succoth, and gave him the name of the chiefs and the chiefs of Succoth, and gave orders to him seventy men.
And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men who were in the houses near the house of Micah were gathered together and overtook the children of Dan.
And Saul said, I will give her to him, so that she may be a cause of falling to him, and that the band of the Philistines may be on him. And Saul said to David, In two things you will be my son in law this day.
And the trees went out to put oil on the king, and they said to the olive-tree,
Then Saul said to the Lord, the God of Israel, Give ear to a decision. And Jonathan and Saul were chosen by much, and the people went out.
To our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. So be it.
And he took him into his house and gave food to the asses, and they washed their feet and gave food and drink.
When a long hair is over Israel, when the people are in their hearts, blessing the Lord.
A sword from heaven was made against them, and the stars in their order and their divisions were fighting against them.
And to those who were in the towns of the family of Jerahmeel, and to those in the towns of the Kenites,
And they made a agreement before the Lord; and David was living in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
Because of what had been done, they were angry, but not all who came out of Egypt by Moses.
For our property is in heaven, and our hope is from the Lord Jesus Christ.
So that your joy may be increased in Christ Jesus with you again.
There is no one holy like the Lord, for there is no one besides you; there is no Rock like our God.
And said to her, Give me a little water, for I am in need of water. She gave him a bottle of milk and gave him a drink, and gave him a covering.
And the ruler of the town, the ruler of the town, had news of the words of Gath, the son of Shelemiah.
And all the words of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
And after Elkanah, he gave up his wife and all her sons and her daughters.
And David's servants gave orders to David, and the thing was right in David's eyes to be the king's wife: and the days were not ended.
And Jonathan took off his robe from the robe which was on him, and gave it to David and his robes, even to his sword and his bow and his band.
And Jonathan said to David, The Lord, the God of Israel, is my witness that I will make a request to my father by this time the day after tomorrow; and if he is pleased with you, will I not send word to you and make it clear to you?
Give my love to every holy one in Christ Jesus.
For we have no town for ever, but we are looking for the town which is to come.
But be still in the flesh for your sakes.
And the woman came and said to her husband, A man of God came to me, and his form was like the image of an angel of God, very great: but I did not ask him where he was, and he gave me no knowledge of his name.
And they put to death the ox and gave birth to the child.
And after him was Abdon, the son of Zerah, the Pirathonite, who was responsible for Israel.
And Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land; you have seen that my eyes are shining, because I have tasted a little of this honey.
And Samuel said to the people, The Lord, who made Moses and Aaron, and who took your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And again a certain day he said, This is the day when David said, This is the day when you said, Today, if you give ear to his voice, do not make your hearts hard.
The bow of the strong is overcome, and the feeble are clothed with strength.
And the Spirit of the Lord is on him, and he judges Israel, and went out to the fight; and the Lord gave orders to the king of Babylon, when he went out against the town of the king of Aram, attacking the town of the Ethiopians.
If one man sins against another, God will judge him; but if a man sin against the Lord, who will make a request for him? But they did not give ear to the voice of their father, for the purpose of the Lord was purposing to put them to death.
In the same way, when you were made a cause to be seen in shame and in trouble, and on the other, when you had a part with those who went through them.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver which were taken from you, and about which you gave a curse in my hearing, are with me, and I took it. And his mother said, Happy be my son by the Lord.
In every place where they go out, the hand of the Lord has been against them for evil, as the Lord has said; and as the Lord made an oath to them, and they were troubled.
And the children of Dan sent out of the family of their families, the towns of Zorah and Eshtaol, to spy out the land and see it. And they said to them, Go and see the land. And they went to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and they put the night there.
Do all things without talk and thoughts.
And it was necessary for him to give to the people for sin.
And it came to pass, as for Sisera, when they went after Sisera, he came out to meet him, and said to him, Come, and I will let you see the man whom you are looking for. And he came to her, and, when Sisera was put to death, and the tent put in his houses.
And Abraham, when he was named, went out to a place where he was going to get a heritage; and he went out without knowledge where he was going.
And when he had a number of wives, he had a number of wives.
Now I desire you to see, brothers, that I have come to you for the good news of the good news.
For they were thought to cut them off, as they did before; but they were attempting to get them away from the town; and when they came to flight, they went in flight to the roads.
Who in the days of his flesh, having given up the prayer of prayer and requesting mercy for him who was able to keep him safe from death, with a loud cry and crying, because of his fear,
And the king said to the priests, Go up against the priests, and let the people of Edom come up against the priests, and put on the linen robes in that day.
Now these are the nations which the Lord went away to put Israel on them, even as many as had not been seen in the land of Canaan.
And the Philistines said, This day I have made sport of the armies of Israel: give me a man, so that we may be fighting together.
But now they have a desire for the land, for it is a heaven who is not shamed to be named to their God: for he has made ready for them a town.
And Micah had a house of gods; and he made an ephod and images of gods and made holy his sons, who became his priest.
And Saul, and Jonathan, his son, and the people who were present with them were living in Geba; but the Philistines were at Michmash.
And the son of Joash went back from the war to the king of Judah, and put up his rod.
And the five men, before they had been sent to see the land, said to the rest of their brothers, You have knowledge that in these houses there is an ephod and a pictured image and a metal image: see what you are pleased to do.
But Saul did not say anything that day, for he said, He is not clean, and he is not clean.
And Saul's servants said to him, See now, an evil spirit from God is troubling you.
Now when the ark of the Lord's agreement came to the tent-circle, all Israel gave a loud cry, and the earth was moved.
So the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he made them put them in flight into the hands of Shushan, king of Aram; and the children of Israel had been in danger for eight years.
For the priesthood is changed, and there is no need to change the law.
And laughing said to the responsible men of Gilead, If you take me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and the Lord has given them before me, am I to you for a head?
And the men of David said to him, See the day of which the Lord said to you, See, I will give your hater into your hands, so that you may do to him as it seems good to you. Then David got up and cut off the robe of Saul secretly.
For our God is a burning fire.
For he was still in the body of his father, and Melchizedek came to see him.
And he went away from the stone and went on to the top of the rock, and went to the place of the town.
And they said, You have done no wrong to us, or have been cruel to us or taken by any man's hand.
For this cause the children take part of blood and flesh, he also took part in the same, so that through death he might send him away who has the power of death, that is, the Evil One.
By the voice of weeping between the water-waters, there they give out righteousness of the Lord, and righteousness in Israel, and ruling in the doorways of the Lord.
And all those of Benjamin, twenty thousand men of Benjamin, were able to send the sword on that day.
And I have knowledge how to do little, and I am conscious how to have a great amount: in everything and in all things I have knowledge of the secret, to be full and to be without food, to have a great and to go without.
Who is the glory of the glory, and the glory of his last, giving up all things by the word of his power, having made a clean place for our sins, seated at the right hand of the glory in the heaven,
And he sent representatives into all Manasseh, and they went after him; and another sent representatives into Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali, and they came to him.
And the children of Israel got up early in the morning and put up their tents by Geba.
Is not the heritage of the god Chemosh for you? but what the Lord our God has taken will be our heritage.
So put up the hands which are bent and feeble,
And David took the head of the Philistines and took it to Jerusalem, and put it in his tent.
And Saul made an altar to the Lord, the first altar which he made to the Lord.
How much less will he be thought to be thought, who has been crushed under the feet of the Son of God, and has taken the blood of the agreement with which he has been made holy, and who has been holy, and has done to the Spirit of grace?
And David's son was Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they were two of them;
And he went out into the room and shut the doors of the room on him and shut them.
And David put his sword on high over his long robe, and he was going to go, for he had not been tested. And David said to Saul, I am not able to go with these men, for I had not been tested. And David took them away from him.
And when he had news of the dream and its sense, he gave worship and went back to the army of Israel and said, Up, for the Lord has given you the army of Midian.
For I will have mercy on their wrongdoing; I will keep their sin and their sin no more.
And Jonathan said to David, O Lord, the God of Israel, when I have given orders to my father about the day, or the third day, see if there is anything good for David, and I do not send it to you and give it to you;
And she said, Take glory from Israel, for the ark of God has been taken.
The men who were not put to death were put to death, and the cry of the town went up to heaven.
And the women said to one another as they were, and said, Saul has put to death his thousands, and David has ten thousands.
Take care of nothing, but in all things by prayer and prayers, let your prayer be made clear to God.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and in those days the tribe of Dan gave them an heritage to be living in: for to that day their heritage had not come to them among the tribes of Israel.
We have an altar from which those who work for the holy tent have no right to take food.
And she came down at his feet and said, Let me, my lord, be right with me; let your servant give ear to your servant, and give ear to the words of your servant.
And all the people of the land came to wood, and honey was on the earth.
And Asher did not send out the people of the land, or the people of Zidon, or of the outskirts of Achzib, or of Achzib, or of coral, or of Rehob;
And Eber, the Kenites, was parted from the Kenites, from the sons of Reuel, Moses' father-in-law, and had put up his tents as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
And the strength of Israel will not be false, and the strength of Israel will not be changed: for he is not a man to change his mind.
And he gave an answer to the Edomites, who were named by the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub,
And Saul said to his servants, Take your sword and let me go through with it, so that these unclean men may not come and make me come through, and make me foolish. But his arms were not willing to do so because he was very afraid. So Saul took the sword and went down on it.
For men make an oath by the greater word, and in every cause of them the oath is complete.
And I went out after him, and overcame him, and took it out of his mouth; and when he came up against me, I took him by his chin and put him to death and put him to death.
For he put his life in his hand, and overcame the Philistines, and the Lord gave a great victory for all Israel; and you saw it and were glad: why then will you sin against those who have done wrong, to put David to death without cause?
And they said to him, Be quiet, put your hand on your mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest. Is it better for you to be a priest for the house of one man, or to be priest for a tribe and a family in Israel?
And Micaiah said, Truly I will be good to the Lord, because I have a Levite as my priest.
And the responsible men of the people said, How are we able to get wives for those who are left, seeing that the women are put out of Benjamin?
And Samuel said to all the people of Israel, If you go back to the Lord with all your heart, put away the strange gods and the violent men from among you, and put your hearts to the Lord, and be his servant, and he will give you salvation from the hand of the Philistines.
Then all the children of Israel went out, and the people came together, from Dan to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, to the Lord at Mizpah.
Give up the men of Gibeah, who have done this evil thing, so that they may be put to death, and the evil may be taken away from Israel: but they would not give ear to the agreement of their brothers, the children of Israel.
And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? They said, We have come up to be put to shame, to do to him as he has done to us.
And Jonathan said to Jonathan, See, we will go over to the men, and we will make their decision to them.
And David took back all that Amalek had taken away; and David took away his two wives.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they overcame the Canaanites who were living in the valley, and put them to death: and the name of the town was called Hormah.
And they went up and put up their tents in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: and they gave that place that place is to this day. See, it is in the middle of Kiriath-jearim.
And when they came to the land of the Kohathites, Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come and let us go back, or let my father take care of the asses, and take care of us.
And you have knowledge, even as you have been true, so that when I went out of Macedonia, there was no division with me, but only you only.
And they said to sport, Come, and you will be our captain, and we will be fighting against the children of Ammon.
And it was given to the town of Gath, saying, The son of Jonathan has come here. And they went round about him, and put waiting for him all night in the town, and keep quiet all the night, saying, Let us be till the morning light, and we will put him to death.
And put free all those who were in fear of death through all their life.
And Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to give you king over his people Israel: now give ear to the voice of the Lord:
They will be cut off, but you will be increased; they will be as old as a robe.
And Saul made an oath to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord is living, there will be no evil for you.
And when she came to him, she made him requesting a field for her father; and she got up from her ass, and Caleb said to her, What will you do?
And he will take the tenth of your sheep, and you will be his servants.
And the legs of the horses were broken, while the attackers went in flight, falling down on their feet.
And he gave back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I am certainly to give the silver to the Lord from my hand for my son, to make a image and a metal image: now I will give it back to you.
So that we may go with fear to the seat of grace, so that we may have mercy, and may have grace in the time of need.
And Jonathan said to David, Whatever your soul says to me, I will do for you.
At that time the earth shook the earth, but now he has said, But I will not be moved from the earth only but heaven.
And he took down the tower of Peniel, and put to death the men of the town.
But this is the oath by him who said to him, The Lord has made a oath, and he will not be changed: you are a priest for ever.
And they gave birth to the name of the town Dan, after the name of Dan their father; but the name of the town was Achsah at the first.
If a man had broken the law of Moses, there was no mercy on two or three witnesses:
And then, through Abraham, the Levites, who have given the tenth part, has been given the tenth part.
And as they went up the hill to the town, they saw young women going out to get water, and said to them, Is the man here?
Who have been made, not by the law of the flesh, but by the power of an eternal life.
She puts her hand to the place of the nails, and her right hand to the work of the workmen; with the hammer she sent to Sisera, and she is crushed by his head; and she is wounded in his houses.
And Japhlet went with the responsible men of Gilead; and the people put him over them for head and for captains, and for all his words before the Lord in Mizpah.
But give help to one another every day, while it is given to day, so that no one may be made free through the deceit of sin.
And she was weeping before him the seven days, while they had the feast. And on the seventh day he made it clear to her, because she was cruel to him. And she made clear the sense to the children of her people.
And Deborah, a woman who had a wife, a wife of the woman, was judging Israel at that time.
And they took their bones and put them to death under the tree in Jabesh, and without food for seven days.
And Samuel said, Like the sword of your sword, so will your mother be without children more than women. And Samuel, the son of Samuel, was cutting off before the Lord in Gilgal.
And the people had said to him, It will be done for the man who overcomes him.
And Abigail went quickly and went on a young ass, and five of her daughters who were with her; and she went after the men of David and became his wife.
The virgin is honoured in all, and the bed is free, and the man who is unclean and is untrue to God will be judge.
And Jesse gave seven of his sons to the end of Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not given these things.
And when the child was gone, David got up from the south, and went down on his face to the earth, and gave his face to the earth three times; and they gave a kiss for one another, and he was weeping one with another; and David was weeping for the first.
And the blessing of Elkanah and his wife said, May the Lord give you seed of this woman for the request of the Lord, and they went to their place.
And the sons of Saul: Jonathan and Ishvi and Malchi-shua and the names of his two daughters: the name of Michal the first, and the name of the younger woman.
And Samuel said to Saul, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place: for you will be feasting with me to day, and tomorrow I will let you go and say to you everything that is in your heart.
For to you it is given for Christ, not only to have faith in him, but also to undergo for him.
But there was a strong tower in the town; and all the men and women of the town went in flight, shutting themselves in, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And those who were numbered of them were numbered by number; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
And Saul put up their tents in the hill-country of Ararat, facing the road. And David was living in the waste land; and when he saw that Saul had come after him into the waste land,
Do not send away your glory, which has great reward.
The rod of his spear was like a cloth-vessel's rod; and his spear was about six hundred shekels of iron, and his master went before him.
And Samuel took a stone and put it between Mizpah and put it in place; and he gave the place, the Rock, and said, This is what the Lord has given us.
And Saul's brother said to him and to his young man, Where did you go? And he said, To search for the asses, and we may see that they are not, and we come to Samuel.
So that we may say, The Lord is my help, and I will not be afraid of what man will do to me.
And they came together to Mizpah, pulling water, draining it out before the Lord, and went without food on that day, and said there, We have done evil against the Lord. And Samuel was judged by Samuel in Mizpah.
And Saul came back from the Philistines and said, See, David is in the waste land of En-gedi.
And Samuel said, Does the Lord make offerings for burning offerings and offerings, and not rather that the voice of the Lord is to be done? for better is better than offerings, and to give ear more than to give the fat of the sheep.
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, in Philippi, with the workmen and the workmen;
But if there is a cause of thorns and thorns, and a curse, and a curse, whose end is to be burned up.
The shame of Christ is greater than the wealth of Egypt, for he was looking for the reward of his reward.
And the responsible men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Give us seven days' rest, so that we may send representatives to all the country of Israel, and then if there is no one to keep us safe, we will come out to you.
So that we may go to the seat of grace, so that we may be given mercy, and have grace in the measure of God.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David go before me, for he has seen grace in my eyes.
And we have food and food for our asses, and bread and wine for me and for your woman-servant and for the young men with your servants: there is no need of anything.
And wisdom said to the responsible men of Gilead, If you let me go back to fight against the children of Ammon, and the Lord gives them up before me, will I be your head?
And let every tongue say that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Looking straight on Jesus the chief and complete faith: who saw the joy which was false before him, being overcome with shame, being put to shame at the right hand of God.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and made war against it, and went to the door of the tower to be burned with fire.
And he went down and talking with the woman, and she was pleased with the woman.
And Jonathan said to the young man, Make haste; do not keep quiet; and Jonathan's young man got the arrows and came to his master.
And he said, This will be the way of the king who will rule over you: he will take your sons and let them be his servants, for his war-carriages and for his horsemen; and they will go running before his war-carriages.
And the Lord was troubled with the sword, and all his war-carriages, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before a man; so that when Sisera went down his chariot, he went in flight on his feet.
And the Holy Spirit was made clear, so that the way into the holy place was not seen, but the first place was still in the first.
Saul was thirty years old when he became king, and he ruled for forty-two years over Israel.
And Saul overcame Amalek from Havilah, going to Shur, which is on the front of Egypt;
For this reason let this mind be in you in Christ Jesus,
Be awake, O Shulammite, awake, awake; awake, awake, O wise! take your prisoners, O daughter of Abinadab.
And the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you be weeping for Saul, and I have put him away from the rule over Israel? put your horns with oil, and go, I send you to Jesse, the Beth-house, for I have seen among his sons a king.
And the children of Dan said to him, Let not your voice be heard among us, lest a man's wrath come on you, and you give up your life and the life of your house.
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him go back to his father's house.
And Sarah was able to give birth to child, and she gave birth to the time of life, seeing that she was true to him who had a word.
And his mother said to him, This is what Samuel said to you.
For when the people were numbered, there were not any of the people of Jabesh-gilead there.
For you have not come to a burning fire, and to a burning fire, and to the dark, and to the storm;
And the children of Asher were living among the Canaanites, and the people of the land, because they had not taken their property.
And David took all the flocks and herds which they were driving before them, and said, This is the destruction of David.
And she put it on the band, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, O Lemuel. And he got up from his sleep and took away the band of wood and the house of the house.
And you will see the troubles of my house, in all the wealth which God will give Israel; and there will be no old man in your house for ever.
And when Saul and all Israel had news of the words of the Philistines, they were troubled and full of fear.
And the eighth day of the children of Israel, from the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, and the law of a Pharisee;
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the son of Reuel, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of the Lord at Shiloh, had the ephod; and the people did not see that Jonathan was gone.
And twenty years old he judges Israel; and he was dead and was put to death in the earth.
And every priest is to keep his work every day, and every one of them has the same offerings, which is not able to take away sin.
And there went up to Abimelech for help Israel, the son of Puah, the son of the Ahohite, a man of Issachar, and he was in the hill-country of Ephraim.
So in the morning Jonathan went out into the field at the time of David, and a little child with him.
So let us be quick to go into that place, so that no one may be turned into the same way of faith.
And the Midianites and Amalek and all the children of the east went in the valley like a swarm of locusts, and their camels were not numbered as the sand on the sea.
But the men would not give ear to him; so the man had connection with his wife, and took her out to them, and they had knowledge of her and made it hard for her all night till the morning; and when the time came to spring, they let her go.
And Christ, as a son over his house, whose house is we, if there is a man's glory, and the joy of the hope to the end of the end.
Go back and go in peace, and do not have respect for the chiefs of the Philistines.
And Saul took him on that day, and did not let him go back to his father's house.
So David took the spear and the vessel of water from Saul's head, and they went away: and no man saw it, or had knowledge of it, or did any sleep: for they were all sleeping, because a deep sleep from the Lord came on them.
And to those in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men went about.
If only this people were in my orders, then I would take away Abimelech, and I would say, Make your army increase, and come out.
And when they were near the house of Micah, they had knowledge of the voice of the young man, the Levite; and they turned back and said to him, Who took you here? and what are you doing in this place? and what have you here?
And when he came, he was seated on his seat by the wayside; for his heart was moved for the ark of God. And when he came into the town, all the town was crying out.
And the people of Israel made themselves strong, and put their position in position in the place where they put themselves in position the first day.
And one of the servants said, See, I have seen a son of Jesse, the keeper of the town, expert in music, and a man of war, and a man of war, and a man of understanding, and a man of form, and the Lord with him.
And David is covered in the field, and it is the new moon; and the king is seated by the food to take food.
And the dead, whose name was Jealous, was put to death at Beth-lehem.
Have no respect for the servant of your servant, but because of my sorrow and my wrath which I have made, I have said all this.
And the Philistines were full of fear, saying, God has come into the tent-circle. And they said,
So that you may have knowledge of what is greater, so that you may be true and without fault in the day of Christ;
And she got up and put on her face to the earth, and said, See, your servant is a servant to keep the feet of the servants of my lord.
And David was the youngest; and the three sons went after him.
And I said, See, I am coming; in the head of the book it is said of me, I am to do your will, O God.
And Saul said, Let us go down to the Philistines by night, and let us be put to death till the morning light, and let us not go away from a man. And the people said, Do all that seems good in your eyes. And the priest said, Let us go near here to God.
For if the first agreement had been without sin, then no place was made for a second time.
And the men of Israel were numbered from Benjamin, four hundred thousand men of war, every man of war.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and Shechem was untrue to Abimelech, saying,
And Jonathan said to David, O Lord, the God of Israel, if I may see my father's heart, tomorrow or the day after, and there is anything good for David, I will send no attention to you and make it clear to you.
And he took the gift to Eglon, the king of Moab; and he was very fat.
And David put them to death from the evening even till evening, and there was not a man taken from them, except four hundred young men who had come on the camels, and were running away.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a good and beautiful man; and there was no longer among the children of Israel, and there was no longer among the children of Israel, from his arms and over all the people.
But the first time they went up to weeping before the Lord till night, questioning him, saying, Will I go out to fight against the children of Benjamin my brothers or not? And he said to them, Go up against them and make war.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead had news of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
Then the children of Israel sent men through all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil thing among you?
And laughing came to Mizpah to his house; and his daughter came out to see him with timbrels and dancing; and she was a only child in addition to her son or daughter.
And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was very troubled, and said to him, See, your servant has given ear to your voice, and I have put my life in my hands, and have given ear to your words which you have said to me.
And they gave news to Saul, saying, See, the people have evil against the Lord, to take food with the blood. And he said, You have been untrue to me today a great stone.
Then they said to him, Say sharp words, and he said, He was not able to say it right: for he was not able to say it right. So they took care of him and put him to death at the Jordan across the Jordan. And at that time there came to Ephraim forty thousand.
And we desire every one of you to do the same for the full hope of your hope till the end;
And when they came to the land of the Kohathites, Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come and let us go back; or my father may give up the asses and take care of us.
For see, you have had a son and a son, and a razor does not go up on his head: for he is the child of God from the birth of birth, and he will take Israel out of the hands of the Philistines.
Why do you take up the hands and the feeble knees,
And the woman got quickly and went to her husband, and said to him, See, the man has been seen by me, who came to me the other day.
Do not make an agreement with the people of this land; you are to put down their altars, but you have not given ear to my voice. Why have you done this?
So the two of them were seated together, and they had food and drink together; and the father of the young woman said to the man, Let me take care of the night and be glad.
And she was bitter in soul, and made prayer to the Lord and was crying bitterly.
And they took all the land of the Amorites, from the Arnon to the Jabbok, and from the waste land to the Jordan.
In addition, we have had the fathers of our flesh as sport, and we are honoured: will we not have much more than the Father of spirits and life?
And David said to Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, my father's house in Israel, that I may be son-in-law to the king?
For you yourselves have knowledge that later, desiring to get the blessing, he was not able to get away from them, because he did not have a place for fear, though with weeping had come after it.
And Jonathan said to his war-man, Come, let us go over to the armed men of these unclean men; may the Lord do for us, for there is no cause for the Lord to give salvation by number of or small.
I will make clear your name to my brothers; I will give you praise in the church.
And the weight of the gold rings which he made for a thousand, seven hundred shekels of gold, with silver and silver and purple robes, which were on the kings of Midian, and with the chains round about their camels.
So Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went to his heritage to take the land.
And Samuel said, Though you were little in your eyes, were you not the head of the tribes of Israel? and the Lord made you king over Israel.
And when Saul saw David coming out to the Philistine, he said to Abner, Whose son is the son of Abner, whose son is Abner? And Abner said, I have no knowledge.
Have no fear; but in every thing, by prayer and prayer, let your prayer be made clear to God.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her seven green cords which had not been dry, and she put him in chains with them.
But if it is to be living in the flesh, this is good for me, and I am not conscious of myself.
So now, get up early in the morning with the servants of your lord who are coming with you; and when you get up early in the morning and have light, go away.
Even as for Zebah and Zalmunna, saying, Up and fall on us; for as is the man, so is his strength; and as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he put to death all the days of Zebah and Zalmunna;
So that, my love, as you did all things, not as in my face only, but now much more than you, working out your salvation with fear and trembling;
And now, my father, see, and see the robe of your robe in my hand: for I have cut off the robe of your robe and have not put you to death: see that there is no evil or evil in my hand, and I have not done wrong against you, but you are attempting to take my soul.
And he took directions to the Lord, and he gave him no answer, not by dreams, or by priests, or by prophets.
And give witness to us that the Holy Spirit has said before,
And when Saul was questioning the Lord, the Lord gave him no answer, not by dreams, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
Now David came to the priest at Nob, and Ahimelech the priest came with fear to see David; and he said to him, Why are you, and there are no men with you?
And he got up and said to the army of Israel, Why have you come out to make war for war? Am I not the Philistines, and you the servants of Saul? Give for yourselves a man, and let him come down to me.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel; and he made war against all his haters, against Moab, against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines, and against the Philistines.
In the same way, while you were made a public decision, there was no use of shame and sorrow, and some of the same as you were friends of them.
And she put it on the band, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, and the Philistines are on you; and he got up from his sleep and put out the band of wood and the House.
By faith we are certain that the world is made by the word of God, so that what has been seen has not been made out of things.
Which we have put up as a mark of the soul, quiet and strong;
And they said, A heritage has been given to Benjamin, and there is no division in Israel.
And the man of the dead said to David's servants, Who is David, the son of Jesse? There are many servants who are broken from their masters these days.
And as Samuel went round to go, he took the skirts of his robe, and was broken.
And he took ten men of his servants, as the Lord had said to him; and because he was afraid of his father and the men of the town, he was not able to do it by day, but he did it by night.
But Sihon did not put his faith in Israel to go through his land; so Sihon went with all his people and put up their tents in Jahaz; and he made war with Israel.
So the young men of David came and said all these words to the sons of Nabal, the wife of Nabal, and they were waiting.
Now Saul had come back from following the Philistines, saying, See, David is in the waste land of En-gedi.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to their voice, and you will be king over them. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his town.
And has tasted the good words of God, the powers of the coming world,
And now, let not my blood come to the earth far away from the Lord: for the king of Israel is coming out to get like a bird, as when a bird puts a bird on the mountains.
At that time there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Pai.
This is the number of things which we have said: We have a high priest, seated on the right hand of the seat of glory in heaven,
And I and all who are with me will be sounded with the sound of the horn, and you will be sounded with horns round about all the tent-circle, saying, For the Lord and for the rod.
Now David, the son of the town of Beth-lehem, the son of Judah, was the father of Jesse, and he had eight sons: and the man was an old man in the days of Saul, who was old in years of men.
And David said to him, Truly, you may see what your servant is to do. And David said to David, So I will keep you from my head for ever.
And the people said to Saul, Will Jonathan be put to death, who has done this great salvation in Israel? Far be it from it, as the Lord lives, not one hair of his head falling to the earth, because he has done with God this day. So the people took up Jonathan, so that he was not dead.
For the word of God living and hard, and small as a two-edged sword, and the parts of the body and the spirit, the work and the best, and the thought of the thoughts of heart.
And there was no need for them, from small to great, and to sons and daughters, and from the goods, even to all that they had taken.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house; and the child was waiting for the Lord before the Lord.
And laughing went over to the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into his hands.
All the saints send themselves to you, even those who are of Caesar's house.
At that time, when they were in Shiloh, there was no one there.
And when he saw her, he took his robes and said, Ah, my daughter, you have given me a bow, and you have become my trouble: I have made an oath to the Lord, and I am not able to take it back.
And Saul said, Happy be you of the Lord, for you have had mercy on me.
And the mountain went up on the north in Michmash, and the other on the south side of Geba.
And Samuel said, Send all Israel to Mizpah, and I will make prayer to the Lord for you.
So that your joy may be increased in Christ Jesus for me, when I come to you again.
Far be it from me, by the Lord, from putting out my hand against the Lord's selection; and now, take the spear that is on his bed and the water, and we go away.
And when these signs come to you, do for yourself as your hand is fixed, for God is with you.
But she did not go up, for she said to her husband, I will not go up till the child is taken up, and I will send him before the Lord, and there will be for ever.
And David was greatly troubled, for the people had a mind to put stones on him; for the soul of every man was bitter in grief for his sons and daughters: but David took heart in the Lord his God.
And when he was ninety-nine years old, his eyes were clouded, so that he might not see.
And laughing made a special promise to the Lord, saying, If you will give the children of Ammon into my hand,
And he took him into his house and gave food to his asses; and after washing their feet, he gave them a feast.
And all the children of Israel who had taken secret themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, hearing that the Philistines had gone away with their brothers in the fight, and there were with Saul about ten thousand men.
But to the Son, O God, your seat is for ever and ever: the rod of righteousness is the rod of your kingdom.
For it is clear that our Lord has come out of Judah, as Moses had said to the family of Moses for nothing.
And Jonathan said, My father has been evil in the land; see now that my eyes are shining, because I have tasted a little of this honey.
But when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the waste land to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And he came to the outskirts of the flock, on the way, and there was a hole with Saul, and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men were living in the open rock.
You have put all things under his feet: for in that he put all things under him, he went away from nothing that is not under him: but now we see not again all things under him.
And I would go out after it, take it down, and take the sheep out of its mouth; and if it came up against me, I would take it by the hair and put it on it and put it to death.
And every priest has a regular offering, and the offering for many times, which is not able to take away sin.
He has the love of love, knowing that I am put to the answer of the good news.
But if you are in fear, go down to the tent-circle with your servant;
And the young man was gone, and David came up from Beer-sheba to the south, falling on his face to the earth, worshipping himself three times and kissing one another, and they were weeping one with another, till David had made himself great.
Those who were full of food get out for food, and those who were in need of food have stopped for need of food; and the children of the dead have given birth to seven, and the number of children is feeble.
Which was a sign for the time, in which there were offered offerings and offerings of offerings, so that it might not make him who did the work complete, as in the heart of his heart;
And when he had let them go into the town, they overcame the town with the edge of the sword; but they let the man and all his family go.
And do not go from here till I come back to you, and make an offering and give it to you. And he said, I will be waiting for you.
And when she was ninety-nine years old, his eyes were open, and he was not able to see.
Let him be in the Lord with all joy, and take care of him.
This is the word which has been said, We have a high priest like this, seated at the right hand of the king in heaven.
And David said to Saul, Why do you take the words of men, saying, See, David is looking for your evil?
And when they went into the house of Micah, and took the image and the ephod and the images and the metal image and the metal image, the priest said to them, What do you do?
Not that I have been given this, or have been made without effect; but I am troubled by myself, if it is possible for which I have been put on by Christ.
And he had forty sons and the sons of thirty sons, seated on sixty and ten asses; and for eight years he gave punishment to Israel.
And let there be no memory of them, for they have no knowledge of it, but have no knowledge of it.
Christ did not give glory to himself, so that he might be made a high priest; but he who said to him, You are my Son, this day I have given you birth.
And he said to him, If now I have found grace in your eyes, let me see a sign that it is you who are talking with me.
And those who were in flight got up quickly out of their place, and Benjamin turned their backs to the sword, and went into the town and overcame it with the sword.
And everyone who saw it said, There was no such acts or seen from the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt to this day. Give thought to it and say,
So David made request to the Lord, saying, Shall I go and make these Philistines attack? And the Lord said to David, Go on against the Philistines and get up to the place of Keilah.
And there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Naham, the son of Zerahiah, the son of Michri, the son of Benjamin, a Benjamite;
But wherever they went, the hand of the Lord was on them, as he had said, and as he had made an oath to them: and they were greatly troubled.
And Samuel said to Saul, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, for you are to have food with me today; and in the morning I will let you go and say to you everything in your hearts.
And they said, What is the sin offering which we will go back to him? And they said, Five of the best gold, and five gold trees, and the number of the lords of the Philistines; for a disease is on them all and on your heads.
And they named the name of the town Dan, after Dan their father, who was born to Israel: but the name of the town was Laish.
And Saul said to Jonathan, Give me word what you have done. And Jonathan said to him, I am full of tasting a little honey in my hand; see, I am dead.
See, the days are coming, that I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house, so that there may not be an old man in your house.
Now when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he made war with all his haters, against Moab and against the children of Ammon and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah and against the Philistines: wherever he turned, he overcame them.
And when Saul had news of it, he said, As the Lord lives, he will not be put to death.
And when David had said these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and was crying.
For his glory is greater than Moses, so much as much as he who made the house is greater than the house.
And David said to his young men, Let every man put on his sword, and let every man put his sword on every man; and David put his sword on his head, and he went after David about four hundred men, and two hundred men went after them.
And on the day after the new moon, which was the second day, the place was wasted, and Saul said to his son Jonathan, Why does not the son of Jesse come to food, or yesterday or day?
And the wagon came into the field of Joshua, at Beth-shemesh, and there there was a great stone, and they took the wood of the cart, and gave up the oxen for a burned offering to the Lord.
Make my joy full of joy, having the same love of one mind, being of one mind;
I will make clear your name to my brothers; in the middle of the church I will make melody to your praise.
And Samuel came no more to see Saul till the day of his death; and Samuel was sorrowing for Saul, and the Lord was changing his mind that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And you will make the images of your cattle and the images of your disgusting things which are in the land, and give glory to the God of Israel, if he will make his hand clear to you and your gods and your land.
As to the rest, brothers and sisters, as many as are true, as many as are in the same way, as much as those who are upright, as much as those who are free, as much as a great number, and as many as have knowledge, and who give glory to them.
Now when Moses had said all the words of the law to all the people, he took the blood of oxen and goats, with water and red wool and hyssop and put them on the book and all the people.
And the Lord said to him, I will be with you, cutting off Midian as one man.
For whom the Lord has given love to the Lord, he takes care of all the son whom he has taken.
And Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for David, and they gave news to Saul and the thing was right in his eyes.
And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog, that you come to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And all the people sent word to the children of Benjamin at the top of Rimmon, and gave them peace.
And his lord said to him, Let us not go back to the town of a strange man who is not of the children of Israel, but we have gone over to the town of Gibeah.
And David said to Jonathan, See, tomorrow is the new moon, and I am not to go to the king's meal; but let me go, so that I may go into the field till the third day.
Then Israel sent representatives to the king of Edom, saying, Let me go through your land: but the king of Edom did not give ear. And he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel was living in Kadesh.
And he said to him, What is your name, that if your word may come, we may give glory to you?
Give the blessing which your servant has given you, my lord, and give it to the young men who go after you, my lord.
Let not my lord put his heart against this foolish man, even the sinner, for as his name is, and the sinner is his name; but I, your servant, did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent.
And the children of Israel had made an oath at Mizpah, saying, Not one of us will give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.
See, I will put the wool of wool in the floor, and if the dew be on the wool, and it is dry on all the earth, I will see that you will keep Israel by my hand, as you have said.
And the Lord said, Let Judah go up; see, I have given the land into his hand.
So Saul and his three sons and his arms and all his men were on the same day.
And David overcame the land, and no man or woman was living; and he took care of the sheep and the oxen and the oxen and the camels and the clothing and went back to the earth.
And it is still very great, if after the image of Melchizedek there was a priest,
If you are better than Balak, the son of Zippor, or the king of Moab, or will you make a decision against Israel and make war against him,
And the number of the men of Israel, in addition to Benjamin, were four hundred thousand men of war; all these were men of war.
And God said to Samuel, Go to bed; and it will be, if he will send you to say, Give word, O Lord, for your servant is hearing. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And now I am certain that you will certainly be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be in your hands.
But he would not, and said, I will not take food, but his servants and the woman together with the woman, and he gave ear to their voice. So he got up from the earth and took his seat on the bed.
And they said, We will give them their desire. And they put on a robe, and every man put the rings of his goods into it.
And the men of Israel turned back, and the men of Benjamin were troubled, for they saw that evil was coming on them.
And David took the head of the Philistines and took it to Jerusalem, and put his arms in his tent.
So Saul gave orders for the people, numbering them as lambs, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And they said to Samuel, Do not keep crying to the Lord our God, that he may keep us safe from the Philistines.
But Christ has come to the high priest of the good things to come, through the greater and without a tent, not made with hands, which is to say, not of this made:
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the town of the living God, the heaven of heaven, and to the holy armies of angels.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, The son of Ahimelech, the son of Ahimelech, send me here. And Abiathar took the ephod there to David.
And when he came again to the earth, he said, And let all the angels of God worship him.
So David and his men got up early in the morning to go back to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And he said, Let your words come true; how will we give orders to the child, and how will we do to him?
And when she was seated on the ass, she came down in the secret mountain, and there David and his men came down to see her, and she came to them.
Saying, There is no pleasure in it, to give offerings and offerings and offerings for sin; and you have no pleasure in it, which is given by the law.
And the Philistines put themselves in position to see Israel, and the fighting was stretched out against Israel; and Israel was overcome by the Philistines, and they came to flight in the field about four thousand men.
And the children of Dan sent five of their families, men of war, and of Zorah, and of Sharon, to spy out the land, and to see it: and they said to them, Go and see the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and put the night there.
And laughing made a special promise to the Lord, saying, If you do not give the children of Ammon into my hand,
Even though we had the fathers of our flesh, we gave them thought to them: will we not give more to the Father of spirits, and have life?
Take care for yourselves, brothers, that there may be in any one of you an evil heart of faith, fearing the living God.
And the people put on the goods and took sheep and oxen and oxen and put them to death on the earth; and the people took food with the blood.
And the men of Israel went back to the children of Benjamin, and they put them to the edge of the sword, and the people of the town and the beasts of the town; and they put fire on all the towns they had seen.
And she made a vow, saying, O Lord of armies, if you will see the evil of your servant, and keep me in memory of me, and not forget your servant, but give to your servant a son, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and there will not be a worm on his head.
And David had news in the waste land, which the man of Nabal had gone to shear his sheep.
For the light of God is not put out, and Samuel is resting in the house of the Lord, where the ark of God is.
If by any means I might come to life again to the dead.
And the men of the town said to him on the seventh day before the sun, What is better than honey is better than honey? What is stronger than a lion? He said to them, If you had not been ploughing with my cow, you would not have seen my knowledge.
And David said to Abigail, May the Lord God of Israel be praised, who sent you today to see me.
And he said to them, Let me make a request of you, and let me give to me every one for his food, because they have gold rings for them.
And all the evil and good-for-nothing man of the men who went with David, answering, said, Because they have not gone with us, we will not give them any of the goods which we have given up, but every man and his wife and his children, and they go away and go.
And Saul said, I give her to him, and she is to him for a net, and the hands of the Philistines are on him. And Saul said to David, By the second hand you will be my son-in-law today.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David come before me, for he has seen grace in my eyes.
And so he used to do this year after year; and when she went up to the house of the Lord, she made her bitter, and she would not get food.
And the Lord said to him, By the three hundred men who are pulling water, I will give you salvation, and send Midian into your hands: but let all the people go back to their place.
And when I saw that you did not give me up, I put my life in my hands and went over against the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into my hands: why then have you come up to me today?
And I will send to you in the place of the valley, the son of Jabin, the captain of the army of Jabin, and his war-carriages and all his army, and he will give them into your hands.
For we have not a high priest, who may not be touched with the feeling of our diseases; but one who has been in all points is in the same way as we are, but without sin.
Now then, give ear to the voice of your servant, and let me put a bit of bread before you, and take food so that you may have strength, when you go on your way.
Give my love to every holy one in Christ Jesus, and the brothers who are with me.
And it came to pass, that it was impossible for them to be changed again to change their hearts, and to put the Son of God to death again and put him to shame.
And all the rest of your house will come down before him for a bit of silver or a cake of bread, and say, Give me to one of the priests's orders, so that I may take a bit of bread.
Then Saul said to his servant, Come and let us go. So they went to the town where the man of God was.
And they were seated together, feasting and drinking and drinking. And the father of the young woman said to his son in the law, Let us go here today, and let us make a feast together.
And when their fathers or their brothers come against us, we will say to them, Give them freely to us, because we did not take for every man his wife in the war, or have you given them to them, or you would be judged.
And I said, I will not send them out from before you, but they will be in your sides, and their gods will be a snare to you.
If there is any comfort in Christ, if there is any comfort of love, if there is a part of the Spirit, if any man has pity on his soul,
And on the day of the new moon, on the second day, the place was wasted, and Saul said to his son Jonathan, Why does not the son of Jesse come to give food, or to this day?
But this man, when he had made a sin-offering for ever, seated on the right hand of God,
And now I am certain that you will be king and have the kingdom of Israel in your hand:
And Samuel said, Was it not when you were little in your eyes, the head of the tribes of Israel, and the Lord made you king over Israel?
So that day the Lord made salvation to Israel, and the fighting went over to Beth-aven.
Then David said to him, As the Lord is living, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the army is good in my eyes: for I have not seen evil in you from the day of your coming to me to this day: but the lords have no respect for you.
Now go and take away Amalek, and put an end to all that they have, and take away all that they have, and take every man and woman, the child and the child, the ox and the sheep and the camel and the ass.
And Saul put up their tents in Geba, opposite the waste land; and David was living in the waste land. And when Saul saw that Saul had come after him into the waste land,
And that night the Lord said to him, Go down into the tent-circle, for I have given it into your hands.
Let your curse be cursed, says the angel of the Lord: curse the people who are living in it, because they did not come to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord against the strong.
And he said to him, This is what says, Israel did not take the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon;
For I am crushed by the two, having the desire to go away and to be with Christ, for it is far better.
Do you not take the heritage of your god Chemosh? and all that the Lord our God has taken away from us, it is our heritage.
And Abimelech said to the king, Who is the one who has faith among all your servants, like David, who is the son-in-law of the king, and has come to your secret position, and is honoured in your house?
Though I have put my faith in the flesh, even if any man has faith in the flesh, I am better.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, See, the man of whom I said to you, this will have authority over my people.
And he said to me, See, you are to give birth and give birth to a son, and do not drink wine or strong drink, and do not take anything unclean: for the child will be a man of God from birth till the day of his death.
And the children of Israel were living in the middle of the Canaanite and the Hittite and the Amorite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite.
And Samuel said to the people, It is the Lord who made Moses and Aaron, and who took your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And the land of the Amorites was from the direction of the slope of Akrabbim, from the rock and over.
And he said to them, What do you see me do? I will go into one part of the tent-circle and do you as I do.
And David saw that Saul had come out to search for his life; and David was in the waste land of Ziph in the woods.
And the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hands of Israel, and they overcame them. So Israel took all the land of the Amorites and the people of that country.
And he said to him, This is what is said: Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon.
And David said to Jonathan, See, tomorrow is the new moon, and I am to be seated with the king for food, so that I may go into the field till the third evening.
And laughing went over to the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into his hands.
And the children of Israel came near to the children of Benjamin on the second day.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go back to his place, so that it may not be put to death or our people, for there was a great destruction in all the town, and the hand of God was very hard there.
And Abimelech came to the tower and attacked it, and he came near to the door of the tower to be burned with fire.
And at the top of the valley they got up the grain of grain, lifting up their eyes and saw the ark, and they were glad to see it.
Those who were full of work before have a reward for food, and the need of the hungry are full, so that the children of the dead have increased, and the number of children is feeble.
And the fighting was cruel against Saul, and the archers were cruel to him, and he was wounded by the archers.
And Judah went against the Canaanites who were living in Hebron ( the name of Hebron) before Arba, Sheshai, Ahiman and Talmai.
Saying, Truly I will give you a blessing, and I will give you great numbers.
And Adam said to the angel of the Lord, What is your name so that when your words come true, we may give glory to you?
And when I blow the horn, I and all who are with me, blow the horns on every side of all the tent-circle, and say, For the Lord and for the rod.
Be full of joy in the Lord, and I say, Be glad.
Now the Lord had made clear to Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
And when he saw that Saul was dead, he was put to death with his sword and put to death with him.
And they put the ark of God on the cart, and the ark which was in it the gold, and the form of the pipe.
And they gave orders to Saul, and sent other men, and they were prophets; and he sent representatives for a third time, and they were prophets.
And no man takes the honour for himself, but when he is named, even as Aaron.
And the Lord came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Is not David in himself in the high places of the town, in the place of the waste?
For the law is changed, and there is no division in the law.
How much more will the blood of Christ, which by the Holy Spirit give himself to God by the Holy Spirit, making our heart clean from death, to give worship to the living God?
Now you have knowledge of the good news, that when I went away from Macedonia, there was no division with me as I went from Macedonia, but you only.
Not that I say, for I have knowledge of the things in which I am to be well-pleasing.
And he made answer, and said, This is nothing for the sword of the son of Joash, the man of Israel: for God has given into his hands Midian and all the tents.
Then he said to her, The worm has never come on my head, for I am a separate man, who is to say, Give me holy care from my mother's body: if my head is cut off, my strength will be turned away from me, and I will become feeble and become like other men.
And what will we do for them? for the children of Israel have no wives, for we have given an oath by the Lord to give them our daughters as wives.
And at her feet he was bent down, and falling down, he was put to death; and at her feet he was falling, and falling down there came to his face.
Having faith in this very thing, to do it till the day of Jesus Christ:
And that year they were cruel to the children of Israel for eighteen years, and all the children of Israel who were on the other side of the Jordan in the land of the Amorites in Gilead.
And the Lord sent cedar-trees and Ziza and Samuel and gave you out of the hand of your haters on every side, and you were living in peace.
But Jonathan said to Saul his father, Why should he be put to death? what has he done?
Give word to me by the Lord, that you will not take away my seed after me, or take my name from the house of my father.
And Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went to his house at Gibeah of Saul.
But Jonathan was not hearing when his father gave orders to the people; and he put out the rod which was in his hand, and put it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were shining.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and there was a Levite living in the hill-country of Ephraim, who took a woman from Beth-lehem in Judah.
And we will take ten men of one hundred, in all the tribes of Israel, one hundred thousand, and one thousand out of ten thousand, to get food for the people, so that they may come to the town of Benjamin, as they come to the end of the foolish things which they have done in Israel.
So David took the men with these words, and did not let them go up against Saul; and Saul got up from the hole and went on his way.
But the high priest only a year without blood, which he gives for himself and for the error of the people,
See, this is the king whom you have chosen, for whom you have said: See, the Lord has put a king over you.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel; and Israel went out against the Philistines to make war with them, and put up their tents at Aphek.
And Israel was waiting at Gibeah round about.
And David said, Will the men of Keilah take me and my men into the hands of Saul? And the Lord said, They will be your saviour.
Who through faith did overcome kingdoms, working righteousness, and gave an oath, and stopped giving up the lions,
And when Bela went to Gaza, he saw a loose woman, and went in to her.
But we are glad about you, dear friends, better than anything, and for salvation, if we say so.
Now there were men living in the room, living with her in the room. And she said to him, The Philistines are on you, O son of Shimea: and he took away the cord, like a bit of fire in which it touched the fire, and his strength was not clear.
Let it be yours in all things, so that you may do his will, and do what is pleasing in his eyes, through Jesus Christ, to whom is glory for ever and ever. So be it.
But David put up these words in his heart, and was greatly troubled at the face of the king of Gath.
But one has given witness to another, saying, What is man, that you keep him in mind, or the son of man, that you take care of him?
And this will be the sign for you, which will come on your two sons, on the twenty-fourth day of the month, on the twenty-fourth day of the month, when they come to the end of their death.
And these are the gold vessels which the Philistines went back as an offering to the Lord: one of Ashdod, one, and Ashkelon, one, and Gath, one;
And after him, the keeper of Beth-lehem judges Israel.
And Samuel was a child, clothed with a linen ephod.
And the children of Israel said to the king, Rule over us, you and your son, and your son's son; for you have kept us safe from Midian.
But the other news of Christ is not true, to keep me in my chains.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they put to death the Canaanites who were living in the town of Canaan, and put it to destruction, and they gave the name of the town Hormah.
Are they not all the spirits of the work? for they are sent out for the purpose of salvation.
And there was a sharp rock among the Philistines, and there was a sharp rock on the other side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Cleopas and the name of the other.
And Saul made an oath to her by the Lord, saying, This is the life of the Lord; punishment will not overtake you for this.
For if you do not have the right to be offered, because the worshippers of the dead have been made clean once and for all.
From heaven the stars have made war, and from their divisions they make war with Sisera.
Do not have love for strange men, for by this cause some angels have no knowledge.
Then that I might have knowledge of him, and the power of his coming back to life, and the blessing of his pain, and that he might be made as his death.
And when he saw her, he tore his robes and said, Ah, my daughter! you have taken me very low, and you are one of those who have trouble for me; for I have given my mouth to the Lord, and I am not able to go back.
And when she was old, he had news of all that his sons did to all Israel, and how they had connection with the women who had come together at the door of the Tent of meeting,
And the daughters of Israel went to take care of the daughter of Japhlet in Gilead for four days in a year.
And Saul sent representatives to Jesse, and said, Send your son David with the sheep.
Now when Saul saw David coming out against the Philistines, he said to Abner, the captain of the army, Of what is this young man, Abner? And Abner said, As your soul is life, I am not conscious of.
So they put up for themselves the image of his image which he had made, and all the days that the house of God was in Shiloh.
Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God, and they took it from the town of Ashdod.
Only, to which we have been made, by the same rule let us go.
And I have hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you quickly, so that I may be of good comfort when I have knowledge of you.
And there was no saviour, for it was far from Sidon; and they had nothing to do with man; and it was in the valley which is by Beth-Rehob; and they made the town and living there.
And they went to the tents of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, See, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they had been secretly.
Do not give up the words of pride; let no pride come out of your mouth: for the Lord is the God of knowledge whose works are not true.
And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? And they said, To be put to shame, and to do to him as he did to us.
She put her hand to the place of the nails, and her right hand to the nails; and she was put to death, looking for a place in his head for the wound, and burning through his high places.
And a strong tower was in the middle of the town, and all the men and women and all the men of the town went to flight, shut up behind them, and went up on the roof of the tower.
And they saw the attack in the valley, and fight against him, and overcame the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
For it is God who works in you both to do and to work, for his good pleasure.
And because of the new agreement which he has given to us, death came, for the salvation of the wrongdoing under the first agreement, so that those who were named may have the word of eternal heritage,
And the children of Israel were turning back to Benjamin their brother, saying, This day has been cut off from Israel.
For we have been joined together to Christ, if we keep the first of our faith till the end,
And you will give ear to what they say, and afterwards your hands will go down into the tent-circle. Then he went down with his servant stretched out his servant at the end of the armed men who were in the tent-circle.
And again the third time, the name of the Lord came to him, and he got up and said, Here I am; for you have been named me. And he saw that the Lord had given him the child.
And he took an army together with Amalek and overcame Amalek, and made Israel free from the hands of those who took them.
And David, the son of this Ephrathah, was the Hushathite of Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons, and the man in the days of Saul became old among men.
Then the legs of the horse will be overcome with a loud voice, because of the rushing of his horses.
And the woman said, Whom am I to give you up? and he said, Give me up to Samuel.
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Do not give up crying to the Lord our God, that he may keep us safe from the Philistines.
And the blade went in after the blade, and the fat was shut up on the edge; for he did not put the sword out of his body, and it came out after him.
Now when he had made an end of talking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his soul.
And he said, Have you not put a attack on this day? And David said, About the south of Judah and against the south of the father of Jerahmeel, and against the land of the Kenites.
For every high priest has been taken from among men for the saints in the things of God, to make offerings and offerings for sin,
And if the man said to him, Let them make the fat to be burned first, and take for yourself as you desire. Then he said to him, No; give it now; if not, I will take it by force.
If any man is a man who is a sinner, or a man who is unclean, as he is, so that he may give his birthright to his birthright,
So that their children might be trained to fight with their haters, and to be trained for war.
And the Philistines said, I have made a fight against Israel this day: give me a man, that we may make war one another.
And that a man may see his hater and send him away in a good way; and the Lord will give you good reward for what you have done to me this day.
And why was the number of the stars of heaven, and such as the stars of heaven, and as the sand by the sea, without number?
The river of the river goes in flight, the river of old, the river of the river.
I give praise to my God for all my memory,
And David gave answer to the priest and said to him, Truly, women have been kept from us for three days; and when I came out, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was only a land: how much more will their vessels be holy?
And Samuel said to Saul, Let me say what the Lord has said to me this night. And he said to him, Say.
And he said to him, Have no fear, for the hand of Saul my father will not overtake you; you will be king over Israel, and I will be a second to you: my father Saul has knowledge of this.
And the war was hard against Saul, and the archers came to him with bows; and he was troubled with the archers.
And the men of Israel and Judah got up with a loud cry, and went after the Philistines till you came to the valley and to the towns of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines went down on the road to Gath and to Gath and to Ekron.
And the number of the days which David was living in the land of the Philistines and four months.
And the man said to him, I am he who has come from the fight; I have gone away today from the fight. And he said, What has been done, my son?
And the wall of Jericho was waiting for seven days.
And when the Philistines saw David, he had no respect for him, for he was only a child and red in his form.
There is no one holy like the Lord, for there is no saviour; there is no Rock like our God.
And Jesse gave his name Abinadab, and made him go before Samuel; and he said, The Lord has not given this one.
I will make clear your name to my brothers; in the middle of the church I will make songs of your praise.
And David's men said to him, See, the day of which the Lord has said to you, See, I will give your hater into your hands, and you will do to him as it seems good to you. Then David got up and cut off the robe of Saul in secret.
So that we may be like all the nations, and our king may rule over us, and go out before us and fight our battles.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did what was right in his eyes.
Then Samuel sent the people to the Lord at Mizpah.
And numbers of the brothers in the Lord, being troubled by my chains, are very bold to say the word without fear.
And when they had gone away from there, they went on on the edge of the wall, and got away from there.
So get up in the morning, you and the servants of your lord who came with you; and when you are up before day, and it is to be light, go on your way.
If he is able to make war with me and put me to death, then we will be your servants; but if I have overcome him and put him to death, then you will be our servants and servants.
And let every tongue say that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And the children of Israel, crying to the Lord, said, We have done wrong against you, because we have turned away from our God, and have given themselves to the Baals.
For this day the Lord will give you into my hand, and I will send you down and cut off your head; and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of heaven and to the beasts of the earth, so that all the earth may see that there is a God who is for Israel.
For he was still in the body of the father when he saw him.
For I have given you a great number of the way which I have said to you frequently, and now you are to be crying, so that those who are against the cross of Christ.
And they took their daughters to their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons and served their gods.
And the Lord gave attention to her, and she became a child, and she gave birth to three sons and two daughters: and Samuel the child became stronger before the Lord.
And three bands went out from the tents of the Philistines, and one went to the land of Jezreel.
For we have not here a safe town, but the coming one we are looking for.
But if not, then let fire come out from Abimelech, and let the men of Shechem and the house of Millo be burned up, and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and get up against Abimelech.
And that most of the brothers in the Lord, having put in mind through my chains, are very much more to say the word of God without fear.
But he went in flight to us, to make us a priest, as a priest as a priest.
And the angel of the Lord came to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, you who are strong fighters.
And David said, May the Lord, the God of Israel, let your servant be certain that Saul is desiring to go to Keilah and to put the town to destruction.
For the man, even though he is a man of pride, does not make a statement for himself, saying, Have no faith, because of putting trouble on my chains;
And he said to him, Where is your mouth now that you said, Who is Abimelech, that we may serve him? is not this the people whom you have made sport of? go now, I pray and make war with them.
So that their parts and their hooks and their meat-hooks and their metal cutters were made low, even to the end of the building.
So then, brothers and sisters, were moved in the holy place by the blood of Jesus.
And they said to David, See, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and they take away the grain-floor.
By faith Moses, when he came to the end, would not be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
But rest in the flesh more for your sakes.
For this cause we see that we are round about with a cloud of witnesses, let us take away all the weight and the sin which is in us, and let us be able to go with the rest of the kingdom which is before us;
Then whatever goes out of the doors of my house to see me, when I come back in peace from the children of Ammon, it will be the Lord's, and I will give it up for a burned offering.
Do not take care of your servant for a crime, for from the abundance of my outcry and trouble I have said this to this time.
And Abigail got up and got an ass on an ass, and five young women went with her, and she went after the servants of David and became his wife.
But bands went after the war-carriages, and after the army, to make the distribution of the nations, and all the tents of Sisera came down by the sword; not a man went away.
And David and his men, who were about six hundred men, went away from the land of Keilah, wandering in flight where they were to be safe. And Saul said to Saul that David had fled from the town of Keilah, and had been safe, and he had gone out.
And the children of Israel took away the Baals and Ashtaroth and the Lord only.
Now the children of Benjamin came at that time and gave them wives of the daughters of Jabesh-gilead, but they did not find any other men, to whom they were able.
And Samuel said, Send all Israel to Mizpah, and I will make prayer to you before the Lord.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
And Saul was living at the end of Gibeah, under the foot of the pomegranate; and the people who were with him were about six hundred men.
And he took a yoke of oxen and cut them in pieces, and sent them through all the country of Israel, saying, Whoever does not come after Saul and Samuel will be done to his oxen. And the fear of the Lord came on the people, and they came out with one word.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and the tribe of Dan gave them an heritage to be living in them: for they had no part among the tribes.
And Saul was watching David from that day and on that day.
And the king of Gilead went back to the Jordan at the side of the Jordan where Ephraim was to come back. And when any of the children of Ephraim came to flight, they said, Let me go, for the Gileadite said to him, Are you not a man of Ephraim? If he said, I am not.
So the people took food in their hands and their horns; and he sent all the rest of Israel to his tents, and they were not able to go to his tents; and the army of Midian was under him in the valley.
And you have said to you, My son, my son, do not give up the training of the Lord, and do not give effect to the words of the Lord:
And after Abimelech, the son of Puah, the son of Puah, a man of Issachar, got up to give Israel salvation; and he was living in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And he went in, and made ready a young goat and an ephah of the best meal, which he put in a basket; and he put the soup in a vessel, and put it out to him under the oak and gave it to him.
And they named the name of the town Dan, by the name of Dan their father, who was given birth to Israel, and the name of the town at the first.
And after the nails of the tent, they took the nails of the tent, and put the nails on the houses of his head, and put the nails on his head, and put it through his neck into the earth: and so he went down from deep sleep to death, and went to death.
The wise man, her daughters, says to her, Yes, she says to herself,
And David went up from Saul to take care of his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
Have I no longer foolish men, that you have sent this one to me? will this come into my house?
And Eliab, his oldest brother, had news when he said to the men, And the wrath of Eliab was burning against David, and he said, Why have you come down here? and with whom have you left the number of sheep in the waste land? I have knowledge of your pride and the heart of your heart, for you are come down to see the war.
And when the men of the town got up early in the morning, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the image of Asherah was cut down by it, and the second ox was burned on the altar which was made.
Are they not all the work of the spirits, sent out to do the work of the Lord?
And he had thirty sons, seated on thirty asses; and they had thirty towns, which are named Jair, to this day, in the land of Gilead.
And it will be, when the Lord will do all the good things which he said about you, and made you ruler over Israel,
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said, I will send a thousand of an ass on masses, and I will send a thousand of an ass on a thousand.
For I am certain that this will go out to my salvation by your prayer and the full of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And she took it before Saul and before his servants, and they had food. Then they got up and went away that night.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, How is it that you are questioning my name, seeing that it is great?
For you have had mercy on those who were in chains, and have taken away the destruction of your goods, knowing that you have for yourselves a better heritage and a living-place.
And he said to the servant who took him by his hand, Let me put my hand on the pillars on which the house is resting, so that I may be waiting on them.
And one of the young men said, See, I have seen a son of Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem, expert in music, and a man of war, and a man of war, and a man of war, and a wise man, and the Lord is with him.
And Samuel said to the cooked cook, Take the heritage which I gave you and gave orders to you to make it holy by you.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, He is ill.
Now all the training seems for the hour not to be glad but bitter, but later it gives good fruit to those who are trained by it.
And when the ark of the Lord's agreement came into the tent-circle, all Israel gave a loud cry, and the earth was increased.
Because of them he says, See, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will make a new agreement with the children of Israel and the house of Judah;
And the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you be sad for Saul, seeing I have put my face over Israel? put your horns with oil, and go, I will send you to Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem: for I have given me a king among his sons.
And when Saul saw that the Lord was with David, and Saul's daughter Michal loved him,
And Saul was dead, and three of his sons, and his arms, and all his men on that day.
And the Lord went up to Saul in the town of Gibeah, saying, See, David is not safe with us in the strong place of the wood, in the mountain of the mountain, at the right hand of the waste land.
Now then, if you have done true and true, O king, you made Abimelech king; and if you have done well with baal and his house, and have done to him what he has done,
And the children of Israel were crying to the Lord, and the Lord gave a saviour to the children of Israel, who gave them salvation, Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And he overcame them with a great slaughter, and he went down, living in the top of the rock.
Zebulun and Naphtali are a people whose lives are turned to death in the high places of the field.
And the people gave worship to the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the old men who were living on Joshua, who had seen all the great work of the Lord which he had done for Israel.
And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? And they said, To take up the son of Jonathan, to do to him as he has done to us.
And David gave answer to the priest and said to him, The women have been kept from us about these three days, when I came out and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a common place, though it is made holy today in the vessel.
And they put his arms on the man, and the son of the law was waiting for three days in the law of his father, feasting with him and drinking his father's house.
And when his arms saw that Saul was dead, he was put to death with his sword and put his death on him.
And the children of Jabesh-gilead were a strong man, and he was the son of a loose woman: and Gilead was the father of Japhlet.
And we will take ten men from all the tribes of Israel, a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to get ready for the people, so that they may go to the town of Benjamin, after all the foolish acts which they have done in Israel.
And Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went out and took his place at the doorway of the town, and Abimelech and his army got up from the secret place.
And see that Nahash, king of the children of Ammon, has come against you, and you say to me, No, but a king is king over us, and the Lord your God is your king.
And they went out into the fields, and took their vine-gardens, crushing the grapes, and got up, and went into the house of their gods, feasting and drinking and cursed.
And that most of the brothers in the Lord, having put in mind through my chains, are very much more to say the word of God without fear.
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for we have taken a oath in the name of the Lord, saying, May the Lord be between me and you, and between my seed and your seed for ever. And he got up and went away, and Jonathan went into the town.
And the man of the dead said to the servants of David, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? today have servants of servants who have been broken away from his master.
And the angel of the Lord came to the woman and said to her, See now, you have no children; but you will give birth to a son.
So he sent and took him; and he was red with beautiful eyes and beautiful eyes. And the Lord said, Up, put oil on him, for this is he.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah and went after the Philistines and put them to the place of Beth-hoglah.
And you have taken the ark of the Lord and put it on the wagon, and the vessels of gold which you have put back to him for a guilt offering; you put it on the sides and sent it away, and it is gone.
And a man saw a man coming out of the town, and they said to him, Give us the door into the town, and we will have mercy on you.
And the men of Israel saw that the people were troubled, so that the people had been put to shame, and the people kept themselves secretly in the holes and in the woods and in the rocks and in high places and in holes.
And he numbered them in addition to the number of the children of Israel, three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
Then Judah went up, and the Lord gave salvation to the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands; and they overcame ten thousand men.
Make straight roads for your feet, so that what is feeble will not be taken away, but be well.
Was it today that I made a request of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king give anything to his servant, even to all my father's house: for your servant had knowledge of all this, less or less.
But God said long things long ago, in much parts and in much ways to the fathers by the prophets,
And Samuel said to the people, Have no fear: you have done all this evil: only do not go away from following the Lord: but you are to worship the Lord with all your heart.
Though he was a son, and had knowledge of the things which he had undergone,
And the army of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did what was right in his eyes.
On the eighth day I took it on the eighth day, of the children of Israel, from the tribe of Benjamin, the Hebrew of the Hebrews: as to the law, a Pharisee;
By faith Moses, when he had become great, would not be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
And they went round about the children of Benjamin, driving them in flight, driving them down at their resting place as far as the east.
And on the day when the people got up early, they made an altar and burned offerings and peace-offerings.
And he took all the flocks and herds and made them go before him; and they said, This is the destruction of David.
And they said, There is a heritage for those of Benjamin, and there is no division in Israel.
And you, O Lord, have seen the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands.
And he went running to him, and said, Here am I, for you have been my servant. And he said, I have not said, Lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And when the men of that place saw him, they took him thirty men with him.
For I have the strength of my strength, and in the strength of Christ,
And Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and went to see David and his men on the rock of the field.
And fear in the tents, in the field, and among all the people, the people were shaking with fear, and the earth was shaking, and the earth was shaking with fear of God.
And he changed his ways before them, and tricked himself in their hands, and put on the doors of the door, and let his face come down on his face.
The bow of the strong men is broken, and the feeble are clothed with strength.
And David said, The Lord has given me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the mouth of the child; and he will give me salvation from the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said to David, Go, and the Lord will be with you.
Be certain, then, that our brother Timothy is free, and with whom he comes quickly, I will see you.
And all who had knowledge of him before had knowledge of the prophets, said to one another, What is this that has come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And there was a first of twenty men for the first to be put to death, the first of twenty men, in the middle of the field.
Whose voice was shaking the earth, but now he has said, But I will not be moved from the earth only, but the heaven.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David go before me, for he has given grace in my eyes.
And the children of Dan went on their way; and when he saw that they were stronger than he, he went back to his house.
They have made selection of new gods, and war in the doors: was there any one of forty thousand in Israel?
And all the men of Gilead were crying out against Ephraim, and the men of Gilead overcame Ephraim, because he had said, Gilead is a wandering country in Ephraim, and in Ephraim and Manasseh.
Why are you seated among the flocks, to give ear to the voice of the voices of the cattle? For the families of Reuben are very great.
And Deborah, a prophet of the woman's wife, came against Israel at that time.
And Caleb said, He who overcame Kiriath-sepher and took it, I gave him Achsah my daughter for a wife.
And Saul said, Let your hearts be among the people, and say to them, Let every man give me his ox, and every man his sheep, and put them to death, and let them be put to death, and do not sin against the Lord in taking flesh with the blood. And all the people took his ox with him that night and put them to death there.
And Zebulun did not send out the people of the land of the field, or the town of Sela; and the Canaanites were living in their hearts, and made their work hard.
Let us keep the memory of the hope of hope, for he has faith in his word.
In part of the same way, being made a public decision, by reason of shame and trouble; and part of part, having part with the others.
Now the Lord, the God of Israel, has taken away the Amorite from before his people Israel, and will you take their heritage?
And we see that they were not able to go in because of their faith.
And the angel of the Lord had not given it to another man, and to his wife, and another man, that he was a preacher of the Lord.
And his arms said to him, Do all that is in your heart; let them be turned back; see, I am with you in your heart.
So David went in flight and got away; and he came to the town of Samuel at Ramah, and gave him news of all that Saul had done to him. Then he and Samuel went to the end of Shimron.
And all the children of Israel went out, and the people came together as one man from Dan to Beer-sheba and the land of Gilead, to the Lord at Mizpah.
So Moab was put to shame that day under the hand of Israel; and the land was still eighty years.
And while they were making their hearts glad, the men of the town came round about the house round about, crushing at the door, and said to the master of the house, the old man, Send out the man who came into your house, so that we may see him.
And he took a young man from Succoth, questioning him; and he sent for him the chief men of Succoth, and the responsible men seventy men.
Why did you not keep the voice of the Lord, but took the goods and did evil in the eyes of the Lord?
Yes, I have knowledge of all things, because of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I had undergone the loss of all things, and have no knowledge of them, so that I might have Christ.
For this cause I have made a oath to the house of God, that the sin of the house of birth may not be taken away with offering or offerings for ever.
Is it not the grain of grain to the day? I will send on the Lord, and he will send thunder and rain: and you will see and see that you have done evil in the eyes of the Lord, in desiring to make a king over you.
They went to war from heaven, and the stars in their tents made war with Sisera.
For this cause, because we have such a great cloud of witnesses round us, putting away every weight and sin which is ready for us, let us be able to be able to get the course of life which has been given before us;
Then the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who were living in the hill-country, and in the hill-country and in the lowland.
And Micah made holy the Levites; and the young man became his priest and was in the house of Micah.
By faith a good offering did Abel to God, than Cain, through which he had been given witness to righteousness, to give witness to God, and to give witness to him and to death.
And he said to them, Why are you doing such things? for I am hearing of your evil behaviour by all this people.
And all the men of Shechem came together, and all the houses of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the great tree in Shechem.
In that he says, A new agreement, he has made the first old: now that which is old has become old, and the old has become old enough.
For you have had mercy on me in my chains, and have given up the goods of your goods, knowing that you have for yourselves a better heritage and a strong one in heaven.
And it was so great that Moses said, I am greatly troubled, and I am troubled.
At that time they put an end to Moab, about ten thousand men, and every man a man of war, and not a man got away.
And who will give ear to you in this way? for as the part of him who has been put down into the fight, so is the part of him who has the rest of the vessels.
Make a question to your young men, and they will make clear to you. So let the young men be given grace in your eyes: for we come in a good day: give it to your servants, and to David your son.
And again, I am with the children which God has given me.
And when his servants gave orders to David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son, and the days had not come to the end.
But the man was not willing to keep the night; and he got up and went; and he came to the town of Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and he had a couple of asses and his wives.
So that we may give praise to God for ever, and the fruit of the lips which are based on his name.
For there is a division of the orders which the law goes before for the feeble and unchanged.
So take your place and see this great thing which the Lord is doing before your eyes:
And Samuel said, Why are you questioning me, seeing the Lord has gone away from you, and has become your enemy?
But he turned away from the images of Gilgal, saying, I have a secret word to you, O king. And he said, Be quiet, and let all who were waiting by him go out from him.
And it came about from the day that the ark of the Lord was in Kiriath-jearim, for it was the twentieth year; and all the children of Israel came to rest after the Lord.
And Samuel said, As your sword has given birth to women, so will your mother be without children. And Samuel, the son of Samuel, was cutting off before the Lord in Gilgal.
And Saul said to the Lord, the God of Israel, Give us a blessing; and Jonathan and Saul were taken away, and the people were safe.
And there was a man in Maon who had much property in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats, and he was cutting off his sheep in Carmel.
And the people took some of the goods of the flock and the cattle, the first part of the holy things, for to the Lord your God at Gilgal.
And when she was seated on her ass, she came down by the cover on the mountain; and David and his men came down to her, and she came to them.
Now I am certain that you will be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be in your hands.
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant, and took them to a room in the building, and gave them a place at the head of the guests, about thirty men.
And Moab was put to shame in that day under the hand of Israel, and the land was about eighty years.
So that we may be safe if we have been in need of the great salvation which came from the Lord, which has been made clear to us by those who have given ear.
For it is God who works in you both to do and to work, for his good pleasure.
For he who makes holy, and those who are made holy, are all of one: for he is not shamed to say to them,
And in the morning when the sun is lifted up, you will get up early and fall on the town; and see that he and the people who are with him will come out against you, and you will do with him as you have in need.
Because my father has been fighting for you, and has taken away his life from you, and give you salvation from the hand of Midian;
And Saul came after the herd of the field; and Saul said, What is the trouble of the people weeping? And they gave him the news of the men of Jabesh.
And a head-dress of brass was on his head; and he was clothed with the scale of the robe; and the weight of the robe was five thousand shekels of brass.
While it is said to you, If you will give ear to his voice, do not make your hearts stiff, as in the wrath.
And no such thing is secret in the eyes of him, but all things are without clothing, and have been given to the eyes of him to whom we are to give our account.
And the king sent for Abimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests at Nob: and they came all of them to the king.
So they went before the Philistines, and the Philistines said, The Hebrews come out of the holes where they have been kept secret.
In Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its daughter-towns, and in all the towns which are on the side of the Arnon, there were three hundred years; and why did you not get them to the end?
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for we have made an oath in the name of the Lord, saying, May the Lord be between me and you, and between my seed and your seed for ever. And he got up and went away, and Jonathan went into the town.
I have not sinned against you, but you have done me wrong in making war against me. O Lord, judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to the voice of the people, to all that they say to you: for you have not turned away from me, but have turned away from me.
And he said to his young man, Go, get ready for the arrows which I have made: for the child was running, and the arrow was round about him.
And God made him great, and gave him the name of the name more than every name.
And the children of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they did not forget the Lord their God, worshipping the Baals and the high places.
And he said to them, The Lord is a witness against you, and a witness against you this day, that you have not seen anything in my hand. And they say, A witness.
All things have no outcry and thoughts;
And for the daughters of Israel, to go and make a song of grief for the daughter of Japhlet the Gileadite for forty days,
And make an altar to the Lord your God on the top of this strong place, and take the second ox and make a burned offering with the wood of the Asherah which you may cut down.
And David's two wives were taken prisoner, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
And when David had news of the death of the sinner, he said, Happy be the Lord, who has given the cause of my shame from the sinner, and has kept back his servant from evil: but the Lord has put back the evil of the sinner on his head. Then David sent and gave birth to Abigail to his wife.
For this is my prayer for this child, and the Lord has given me my request.
And the king said, Make search for you whose son is a boy.
And God gave back the evil-doing of Abimelech, which he had done to his father to put to death his seventy brothers.
And that which is given to the thorns and the thorns, and those who say evil things to be cursed,
And as for your asses, which were three days old, do not put your mind on them, for they are seen. For who is all the value in Israel? Is it not for you and for all your father's house?
And the children of Ammon made war with Israel.
And he said to him, If now I have found grace in your eyes, give me a sign that you are talking with me.
And the child Samuel is going on and increasing, and good with the Lord and with men.
So the young men went on their way, and went back and gave him word of all these words.
And a man or a woman did not let David go to the town of Gath, saying, Lest they say against us, This is what David has done, and what he has done in the land of the Philistines.
And I said, Now the Philistines will come down on me to Gilgal, and I will not let the face of the Lord be changed: I have given up the burned offering.
And they took away the women and all who were in it, small and great, and they did not put anyone to death, but took them away and went away.
Or do not have the right to be offered, because the fear of those who have been made clean, would have had no knowledge of sin?
And Saul was angry with him, and said to him, You son of a woman who has the power of a man, do I not see that you are dear to the son of Jesse, and to the shame of your mother?
And Saul said to David, You are not able to overcome the Philistines or to fight against him: for you are only a child, but he is a man of war from his youth.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and, Saul was sleeping in the middle of the wall, and his spear stuck on the earth in his arms; but Abner and the people were round about him.
Be strong, and be strong as men, O daughters of the Philistines, that you may not be servants of the Hebrews, as they have been to you: let your hearts be turned back as men and fight.
And she sent for the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said to him, Has not the Lord, the God of Israel, says, Go and go to Mount Tabor and take with you ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And he gave blessing to Elkanah and his wife, and said, May the Lord give you a seed from this woman in place of the Lord's prayer. Then they went to their place.
And Enoch was taken away by faith, so that he might not see death, and he was not seen, because God had given orders to him: for he had given orders to him that he had been made right with God before his death.
But now he has the better part of the work, because he is a part of the grace which is given to the grace which is made well.
To whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first, the king of righteousness, and the king of Salem, which is the King of peace.
And Abigail came to the sister of Nabal, and saw that he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and the heart of the sinner was glad inside him, for he was overcome with grief, and she gave him no more than the morning light.
Because of the work of Christ he came to the point of death: he gave life to his life, so that he might give effect to what was needed for me.
And the men of Israel are troubled, and the men of Benjamin are troubled: for they have seen that the evil has come on them.
And what you have has knowledge and given ear and hearing and seen in me, these things are done; and the God of peace will be with you.
And he said to her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man comes up, and he is covered with a robe. And when Saul saw that it was Samuel, he bent with his face to the earth and made himself low.
And Samuel said to Saul, See, the Lord has sent you for king over his people, over Israel; and now, give ear to the voice of the Lord.
Who in the days of his flesh with a loud cry and weeping, and for mercy, and for mercy to him who was able to keep him from death, was hearing of his fear.
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, for we have taken an oath in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord is between me and you, and between my seed and your seed for ever. And he got up and went away, and Jonathan went into the town.
And the destruction of the Philistines went out from the tent-circle of the Philistines, and a band went on the way of Ophrah to the land of weeping.
And the Lord saw him, and said, Go in this way, and keep Israel from the hand of Midian: have I not sent you?
He puts up the poor from the dust, lifting up the poor from the dust, to put them among rulers, to make them take the seat of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has put the earth on them.
One man does not keep the things of his own, but only those who are another.
Then the trees said to the fig-tree, You are lord over us.
For they, their cattle, and their tents would come up like a great number of locusts; they and their camels could not be numbered; they came into the land and made it unclean.
And David came to the two hundred men, so that they were not able to go after David, whom they had made to be in the valley or in the valley: and they went out to see David and to the people who were with him: and when David came near to the people, he gave them rest.
And Jonathan said to David, Saul my father is looking for you to put you to death; why are you looking for yourself in the morning and you will be kept in a secret place and be kept secret?
And the number of the days that David was living in the land of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
And it came about one day, when it came to the place of Mary, that his eyes were dim, so that he might not see.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of the earth, his wife gave birth to these things to him, and his heart was dead inside him, and he was like a stone.
For if the blood of the goats and of the oxen and the dust of a cow is put to death, let them make themselves holy as unclean, to make themselves clean by the flesh.
When you go in, you will come to a people safe, and the land is wide in every direction: for God has given it into your hands, and there is a place where there is no pleasure in the earth.
And he said, There are seventy kings, their thumbs and toes, and their great toes; they have come together under my table: as I have done, God has given me punishment. And they took him to Jerusalem, and he was dead there.
And I made a vow, and said, O Lord of armies, if you take note of the evil of your servant, and have no memory of me, and have no memory of your servant, and have given to your servant children of men, I have given him to the Lord all the days of his life, and a razor will not go up on his head.
And after him, the town of Elon, the fifth of the children of Heth, was judging Israel; and he made Israel responsible for ten years.
And the priest said to them, Go in peace: before the Lord is your way in which you go.
And the children of Benjamin came together from the towns of Gibeah, to go out to fight against the children of Israel.
And David made his men strong by words, and did not let them go up against Saul; and Saul got up from the hole and went on the way.
In which we will be made holy through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ,
And Saul and his men went to search for him, and they said to David, Why he came down to the rock, and he was living in the waste land of Judah. And when Saul had news that he went after David in the waste land of Maon.
The sin of the young men was very great before the Lord, for the men had no respect for the offering of the Lord.
And Abimelech came up to the tower and attacked it; and he came near the door of the tower to be burned with fire.
So that, would they not have the right to be offered, because of the fear of the worshippers, having no thought of sin?
And David and all the people who were with him lifted up their voice and were crying, till there was no more crying.
And early in the morning they got up early in the eyes of the Lord, and went back to Ramah at Ramah: and Elkanah had connection with his wife, and the Lord gave her mind.
And when David had knowledge that Saul was designing evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Take the ephod.
And they put away strange gods from among them, worshipping the Lord; and his soul was troubled for the evil of Israel.
And he said, I have done wrong: honour me now before the chiefs of my people and Israel, and let me go again to the Lord your God.
And I am certain that I am certain that I will be living in the faith with you all, because your behaviour and joy in the faith.
Keep in mind your rulers, who have given you the word of God, and see their faith and their faith.
And he said to all Israel, Be on one side, and I will be with my son Jonathan on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do what seems good to you.
And all the people went into the woods, and honey was on the earth.
And she had a wife in Shechem, and she gave birth to a son, and he gave his name Abimelech.
Now at the end of these days he gave us an account of his Son, whom he had given over all things, through whom he made the world.
So the Philistines were troubled, for they said, God has come to the tent-circle. And they said, It is bad for us, for this has never been done before.
For see, you are to give birth, and have a son, and no one will come on his head; for the child will be a separate man to God from the body, and he will come to salvation Israel out of the hands of the Philistines.
And the king sent for Abimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests at Nob: and they came all of them to the king.
And all the people got up as one man, saying, Not one of us goes to his tent, and no one goes back to his house.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days the tribe of Dan were looking for their heritage to dwell in: for on that day their heritage had not come to them for heritage among the tribes of Israel.
But the boy was not conscious of anything; only Jonathan and David had knowledge of the thing.
And the vine said to them, Should I go out of my new wine, who makes God glad and man, and go to the place of the trees?
And the asses of Saul, the father of Saul, were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take one of the servants with you, and get up and go looking for the asses.
I am not talking as it were for desire; for I have knowledge of myself, in whatever condition I am, to be with it.
And the Spirit of the Lord went to him in Kiriath-arba, in the middle of Zorah and Eshtaol.
If one man sins against another, God will judge him; but if a man sins against the Lord, who will make a request for him? But they did not give ear to the voice of their father, because the Lord was about to put them to death.
But Jonathan did not give ear when his father gave orders to the people. So he put out the rod that was in his hand, and put it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were shining.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she said to Saul, Why have you tricked me? for you are Saul.
And the ark of the Lord was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
I give praise to my God in all my memory of you,
But the kingdom of your kingdom will be no longer: for the Lord has given him a man after his heart; and the Lord gave orders to him to be ruler over his people, because you have not kept what the Lord has given orders.
And the people of Gilead said to one another, Who is the man who will make war against the children of Ammon? he will be head over all the people of Gilead.
And Saul said to David, Happy are you, my son David; for you will not only do many things, but will do well. Then David went on his way and Saul went back to his place.
In no fear, but in all things by prayer and prayers, let your prayer be made clear to God.
And all Israel came together against the town, with one mind and with one mind.
So the young men went on their way, and went back and gave him word of all these words.
Let him be glad in the Lord with all joy, and take care of him.
But the second priest went out to the chief priest, once a year without blood, which he had given for himself and for the error of the people.
And laughing sent sent representatives to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What is between you and me that you have come to me to make war against my land?
And Saul and all the people who were with him got together, and they came to the fight: and, behold, every man's sword was against his neighbour, and there was a very great trouble.
And he changed his way before them, and made himself angry before them, and put in the doors of the door, and let his face go down into his chin.
And the men were very good to us, and we were not damaged, and we had no loss of anything, as long as we were with them when we were in the fields.
And Jonathan and his father and mother went down to Timnah; and they came to the vine-gardens of Timnah, and suddenly a lion came rushing to him.
And there was a high priest over the house of God.
And David said to him, To whom have you been? or where have you come? And where are you going? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of the Amalekites, and my master went away from me, because I was still ill for three days.
So the Philistines made war, and Israel was put to death, and every man went in flight to his living-place: and there was a very great slaughter, and thirty thousand footmen were there.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom you made to the west in the valley of Zin, see that it is a robe in the ephod; if you will take it, take it; for there is no saviour in this place. And David said, There is no one like that. Give it to me.
For the seventh day he said, and on the seventh day God took rest from all his works:
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and Shechem was untrue to Abimelech.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Heli, the chief of the Levites, were put to death.
And David said, You may not do so, my brothers, with what the Lord has given us, who has kept us safe, and given the army who came against us into our hands.
And the Philistines were full of fear, for they said, God has come into the tent-circle. And they said, Woe to us, for there has not been such a thing before.
And when the people came down to the waters, the Lord said to them, Those who take the water with their tongues, like the dogs, are to be parted by themselves: but those who are to drink their knees will be on the other side.
And he said to his men, The Lord has not said that I would do this thing to my master, the Lord's selection, to put out my hand against him, seeing that he is the Lord's anointed.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, If you keep me, I will not take your bread: if you make a burned offering to the Lord, give it to the Lord. For he did not see that he was the angel of the Lord.
Seeing it is necessary for some to go in in it, and to whom the good news was before the preaching of preaching, because of the wrongdoing,
All these were put to death in faith, not having the word given to him, but having seen them and gave them peace from far away, saying that they were living in the earth, saying,
And there was a tent made for the lights, and the table and the table and the holy bread, which is named the holy place.
And the Lord said to him, Peace be with you: fear not, you will not be put to death.
And at the time of her death, the women who were waiting by her said to her, Have no fear, for you have given birth to a son. But she gave no answer, and she did not take care of it.
And Saul gave orders to his servants in secret, saying, See, the king has delight in you, and all his servants have love for you: now be the king's wife.
By my desire and hope, so that in nothing I will be put to shame, and in all liberty, as ever, even Christ will be made great in my body, whether through life or through death;
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come and be king over us.
And Saul's servants said these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it to you for a light to be the king's father-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, and a man's opinion?
And the sound of the horn and the sound of words, which the ears of hearing may not be said to them any more:
And David said, See the spear, O king! let one of the young men go and get it.
Jesus Christ only and this day and ever.
And no man to himself takes the honour, but he who is named by God, as also Aaron.
And the name of his oldest son was Joel, and the name of his second son was Abijah; and they were judges in Beer-sheba.
Now when Saul saw David coming out to the Philistine, he said to Abner, Whose son is this young man, who is Abner? And Abner said, As your soul is life, I do not see.
And when the men of the town got up early in the morning, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the image of Asherah was cut down by it, and the second ox was burned up on the altar which was made.
And she said, No, my lord, I am a woman of sorrow: I have no drink of wine or strong drink, but have put out my soul before the Lord.
Now then, let us go out to him outside the tent-circle, for his shame is on him.
And they said, If you send the ark of the God of Israel away, do not send it away with it; but by all means give him a guilt offering. Then you will be made well, and it will be clear to you that his hand is not taken away from you.
And the men were waiting for a long time, and they went in flight on the town of Gibeah; and the men were waiting for themselves, and all the town were overcome with the sword.
And she took it before Saul and before his servants, and they took food; and they got up and went away that night.
And she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me: leave me for two months, so that I may go down to the mountains and be weeping for my virgin, I and my friends.
I give praise to my God when I have seen you;
And they said, If you send the ark of the God of Israel away, do not send it away: you are to give him back a sin offering: then you will be made well, and it will be clear to you that his hand is not taken away from you.
Now when the Philistines had news that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah, the chiefs of the Philistines went up against Israel; and when the children of Israel had news of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came together to make offerings to the gods of Dagon their god, saying, Our god has given our haters heads over our haters.
And the work of the holy place and the upright Tent which the Lord put up, not man.
And they saw an Egyptian in the field, and took him to David, and gave him bread, and gave him food; and they made him drink water.
And the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you be sad for Saul, seeing that I have put him away from being king over Israel? put your horns with oil, and go, I will send you to Jesse the son of Beth-lehem, because I have given me a king among his sons.
The mountains were moved before the Lord, and Sinai before the Lord, the God of Israel.
And the daughters of Israel went to take care of the daughter of Japhlet in Gilead for four days in a year.
Then the Lord sent a name to Samuel, and the Lord got up and came to him, and said, Here am I, for you have been my servant, and he said, I have not called you, my son: come back to sleep.
And when David had news of the dead of the dead, he said, Praise be to the Lord, who has given the cause of my shame to the sinner, and have kept his servant from evil, and the Lord has given back the evil-doing of the sinner on his head. Then David sent and gave birth to Abigail, to take her to himself for a wife.
For the law has made nothing complete, but the giving in of a good hope has been given to God by which we have come near to God.
Then Saul said to his servants, Make search for me a woman who has a certain spirit, so that I may go to her and get search of her. And his servants said to him, See, there is a woman who has a certain spirit at En-dor.
There is no one holy as the Lord, for there is no other besides you, and there is no strength like our God.
And they said to one another, Who has done this thing? And when they were questioning, they said, The son of Joash has done this thing.
Who gave orders to the image and the shade of the secrets of heaven, as Moses had given orders to make the House: for he said, See, you make all things, as you have done in the mountain.
And David said to the king, You will see what your servant is to do. And he said to David, See, I will make you my servant for ever.
These are the nations which the Lord went away to make Israel clear by them, even as a great number of Israel had not been seen in the land of Canaan.
And she was bitter in soul, and made prayer to the Lord and was crying bitterly.
And she said, The glory of God has gone away from Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father and her husband.
And Abimelech, the son of Ahitub, who was the son of Ahitub, and Abiathar's name, went in flight after David.
And David said to Abiathar, the priest, the son of Ahimelech, Take the ephod here to me. And Abiathar took the ephod to David.
And Abimelech was living in the land of deceit; and the children of Zebulun had given birth to their brothers to go in to Shechem.
So that when all the people of my house come out of the door of my house to make me come back in peace from the children of Ammon, I will give them up as a burned offering.
And the people sent twelve thousand men of the Jews there, saying, Go and attack the people of Jabesh-gilead with the sword, with the women and the little ones.
And bands and Sallai were running away, and went after them and took them, and all their army was troubled.
But if you do evil, you and your king will be taken away.
For to us was the good news of the preaching, and to them; but the word was not good for them, but not by faith in those who had news of it.
And on the next day the people went out to the field; and it was told Abimelech,
By faith Moses, when he got up, would not be named the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
So let us be like a number of wonder; and if you do any other mind, God will make clear to you.
And Saul said to the man who had his hands, Take your sword and put me on my side with it, so that these uncircumcised men may come to me and put me in flight and put themselves on me. And he was greatly troubled, and Saul took the sword and went down on it.
And the sons of David were Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they became his wives.
For then it is necessary for certain to go into it; and those who have first hearing good news did not come in because of their faith.
Now some of the Hebrews had gone over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; but Saul was still in Gilgal, and all the people went after him shaking.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of those who overcame them, driving them into the hands of their haters round about, so that they might not be able to stand before their haters.
And it came to pass on a day that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who had his arms, Come and let us go over to the tents of the Philistines on the other side. But he did not say to his father.
But this man is a sin-offering for ever, for ever on the right hand of God.
For this reason the Lord went out from among those nations, and did not send them out quickly; he did not let them go into the hands of Joshua.
So Saul and his three sons and his arms and all his men were that day together.
And at the end of two months she went back to her father, and he gave her the oath which he had made, and she had no knowledge of a man: and it was a law in Israel.
And one of the servants, answering, said, See, I have seen a son of Jesse, the man of Beth-lehem, a man of great strength, and a man of great strength, and a man who is expert in war, and a man whose words are fair, and the Lord is with him.
So Israel put an attack in flight round about the town of Gibeah.
And it came about that she was troubled by her words all the days, requesting him, and his soul was troubled.
And now you are at all better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab: he was fighting against Israel, and he was fighting against them.
And Saul said to God, Will I go down after the Philistines? will you give them up into the hands of Israel? But he gave him no answer that day.
And when she saw that he had given news to her all his heart, she sent for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up quickly, for he has given me all his heart. Then the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her and took money in their hands.
And Jonathan took off his robe, and gave it to David, and gave it to David, and the rest of his robes, even to his sword and his bow and his band.
If he says, It is well, your servant will have peace; but if he is angry, see that his wrongdoing has come to his high place.
Always keep in all my prayer for you all making request for you.
And it was said to David, See, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and they have taken the grain-floor.
And all who had knowledge of him before saw that he was the prophet, the prophets, said to one another, What is this that has come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Saul and all the people of Israel had news of the words of the Philistines, and they were overcome with fear.
And the children of Israel did the evil thing in the eyes of the Lord when he was dead.
And the other out of love, having knowledge of that which I have given to the good news.
And on the day of the day, Saul put the people in three bands; and they came into the middle of the army in the morning watch, and put to death the children of Ammon till the heat of the day: and the rest of the people were wandering, so that two of them were not gone.
And he said, Let your words come to pass; what will we do to the child, and what will we do to him?
While it is said, To day, if you will give ear to his voice, do not make your hearts stiff, as in the same way.
And she came down at his feet and said, Let this sin be on me, my lord; let your servant say, I say to you, and give ear to the words of your servant.
And when the men came in, they saw the images in the bed, with the head of goats' hair at its head.
And she took bands of brass, pulling him with them, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, the Philistines; and the net is in an inner room, crushing them from his arms.
The chief priest said to the chief priest,
And it came about ten days after, that the Lord had put the sinner to death.
See, all of you, O children of Israel, give your counsel and your designs.
So let us make every effort to go into the rest of the rest, so that no one may be in the same design of sin.
For if we undergo the knowledge of the true faith, there is no longer a sin for sin.
And he took them before the king of Moab, and they were living with him all the time when David was in the high place.
And Benjamin came back at that time, and they gave them wives which had been given to them by the women of Jabesh-gilead; and they had no more than enough for them.
And the children of Israel, crying to the Lord, said, We have done wrong against you, because we have turned away from our God, and have given themselves to the Baals.
And still through the blood of the he-goats and the cattle, but through the blood of his blood, came into the holy place, having eternal salvation.
Why do you take pleasure among the flocks, to give ear to the cry of the flock? In the divisions of Reuben there are great thoughts of heart.
And the men of men saw a man coming out of the town, and they said to him, Show us the door of the town, and we will have mercy on you.
And David went from there to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother be with you, till I see what God will do for me.
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, in Philippi, with the workmen and the workmen;
So Michal let David down through the window, and went away and went in flight.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what seems good to you, till you have taken care of him, but only the Lord gives effect to his word. So the woman went and gave her son to her son, till she was a child.
And the Philistines said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of heaven and to the beasts of the field.
And we went on the south side of the Cherethites, and on the west side of Judah, and on the south of Caleb; and at Ziklag we made a fire with fire.
And when he had put it in his hands, he went on his way and took it as he went; and he went to his father and mother, and gave them food; but he did not say to them that he had taken away the honey from the body of the lion.
And he did not need any day as the other priests, to make offerings first for his sins and for the people; for this he had done a time for himself.
And when Saul saw that he was very wise, he took care of him.
And Memucan went out from the way; and he shut the doors of the upper room and shut them.
And the Jebusites were living in Jerusalem, and the children of Benjamin were not moved; and the Jebusites were living with the children of Benjamin, at Jerusalem till this day.
( For the priests had made an oath, and they made an oath by him, saying, The Lord made an oath and will not change his mind: you are a priest for ever, after the order of Malchijah.
And the young men of David came in, and gave birth to the words of the dead in the name of David.
And she said, The Philistines are on you, and overcome you. And he said in his heart, I will go out as I did before, and I will be shaking, not knowing that the Lord went away from him.
So Saul went back from the pursuit of David, and went against the Philistines; and they sent for the place where the Philistines were.
And the Philistines took him, and put his eyes on him, and took him to Gaza, and put him in chains and put him in chains.
So I said, Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I will not make prayer to the face of the Lord. So I took my hands and made offerings for the burned offering.
O Lord, when you went out of Seir, when you went out of the land of Edom, the earth was moved, and the heavens dropped, and the clouds dropped water.
And the ark of the agreement of the Lord was there.
And Samuel said to him, This day the Lord has taken away the kingdom of Israel from you, and has given it to your neighbour who is better than you.
And Saul went to the town of Amalek and put their places in the valley.
And the servants of Saul said to him, David said this.
And he went in and made ready a young goat, and made unleavened cakes of meal, and put the meat in a basket, and put it in a vessel, and put it out to him under the tree and gave it to him.
And when he had a son, he had knowledge of the things which were given him;
And taking it out in his hands, he went on, and took food as he went; and he came to his father and mother, and gave them food; but he did not say that he had taken the honey from the dead body of the lion.
Now when Moses had given orders to all the people to all the people, he took the blood of oxen and goats, with water and red wool and hyssop, and put them on the book and on all the people;
Now the child Samuel was waiting before the Lord in the presence of him, because the word of the Lord was hard in those days, and there was not a vision in the vision.
And the people gave worship to the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the old men who were living on Joshua, who saw all the great work which the Lord had done for Israel.
For to which of the angels said he ever, You are my son: this day have I given you birth? and again, I will be to him for father, and he will be my son.
And he said to them, Why are you like these? I am hearing of your evil words from all the people.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Why are you weeping? Why have you not got up? Why is your heart sad? am I not better to you than ten sons?
By the teaching of the baptism of baptism, and by putting on the hands of the dead, and of the dead of the dead, and of eternal punishment.
And the chiefs of all the people, from all the tribes of Israel, put themselves in the meeting of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen ready for war.
And Abimelech said to the king, Who is the man of all your servants, who are the true and the law of the king, who has turned away from you and has been honoured in your house?
And Saul said, Happy be you of the Lord, for you have mercy on me.
And give birth to Jesse to the offering, and I will make clear to you what you are to do; and on my name you will put oil on me.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers were weeping to the Lord, the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who took your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And David got up and went away that day for fear of Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
And Saul said to Michal, Why have you tricked me, and let my hater go, so that he is safe? And Michal said to Saul, Let me go; why should I put you to death?
And he will take your man-servant and his woman-servant, and the best of your servants and the best of your servants, and will give them for his work.
And you are building an altar to the Lord your God on the top of this rock, in order to take the second ox and make a burned offering with the wood of the Asherah which you are to be cut down.
Do all things without talk and argument,
The Lord takes death and gives life; he goes down to the underworld and gives up.
And straight steps make your feet straight, so that what is feeble may not be turned away, but be well.
And Abimelech, the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, took his name and went running away after David.
And David was living in the land of the Philistines for four months.
And he said, My gods which I made, and the priest, and you go, and what is to me? and what do you say to me?
Let our lord now give orders to your servants who are in front of you to search for a man who is expert in the harp: and when the evil spirit of God is on you, he will be with his hand, and you will be well.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you troubled my rest, so that I may be lifted up? And Saul said, I am in great trouble: for the Philistines are fighting against me, and God has gone away from me, and has not given ear to me or by the hand of the prophets or of the dream. So I have given you a name, so that you may give me what I will do.
And Gilead took the Jordan across the Jordan before Ephraim; and when the men of Gilead said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said to him, Are you the children of Ephraim? And he said, No.
By faith, Abraham, when he was named to go out to the place where he was to be given an heritage: he went out without knowledge where he went.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went away to his place.
And she said to him, Give me a blessing; because you have put me in the land of the South, give me the springs of water. Then Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
Now then, give ear to the voice of your servant, and let me put a bit of bread before you, so that you may have strength to have strength, when you go on your way.
But it came to the end of the Edomites, who were among the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub.
And after they had taken food in Shiloh, and after drinking wine, the priest was seated on a seat in the house of the Lord.
One of the place said, Who is their father? And it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, In this condition I will make a agreement with you, putting out the right eye among you, so that I may make it a shame for all Israel.
And you have given ear to what they say, and after that your hands were made strong, and you went down against the tent-circle. So he went down, he and his young men, to the end of the fifty men in the tent-circle.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons, seated on sixty and ten asses; and for eight years he gave punishment to Israel.
So they went back and went to the house of the sons of Levi, the house of Micah, and gave him a blessing.
And the children of Gilead took the river of the Jordan against the children of Ephraim, and said, Let me go over. And the men of Gilead said to him, Are you the children of Ephraim? If he said, No.
And when it is made clear to men to be put to death, and to this cause,
And Saul and the men of Israel came together, and they put up their tents in the valley of God, and put their position in position against the Philistines.
And let us go into a true heart in the full faith of our hearts, and let our hearts be clean from an evil heart and our bodies washed with clean water.
And he said to her, Get up, and let us go. But he was no answer. Then he took her up on an ass, and the man got up and went back to his place.
And Samuel, hearing all the words of the people, gave them orders in the hearing of the Lord.
So all the men of Israel came together against the town, together with one man.
Now there was a division among us, Jesus, after the order of Melchizedek, the chief priest, for ever.
After this you will come to the tents of the Philistines, where the watchmen of the Philistines are; and when you come into the town there, you will come down with the voice of the prophets and the instruments of music and the instruments of music and the pipe and the instrument of music before them, and they will be able to say.
And Saul said to his servants who were there, Give ear now, O children of Benjamin: will the son of Jesse give you fields and vine-gardens? will he make you captains of thousands and captains of hundreds?
But now, your kingdom will not overtake you; for the Lord has made for himself a man after himself, and the Lord has made him ruler over his people, because you have not kept what the Lord has given you.
For six years Israel gave punishment for Israel; and she came to an end in the land of Gilead, and was put to death in one of the towns of Gilead.
But the king of the children of Ammon did not give attention to the words of Japhlet which he sent him.
And the wall of Jericho was falling down, and they were round about seven days.
Then he said to all Israel, Be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do what seems good to you.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And as they went up the road to the town, they saw young women going out to get water, and said to them, Is the man here?
And David said to his servants, Put on every man his sword, and let every man put his sword on every man; and David was armed with his sword, and there went up after David about four hundred men, and there were two hundred waiting for them.
And when Abimelech was fighting against the town all that day, he took the town and put the people to death, crushing the town and planting it with salt.
And he said to me, See, you are with child, and you give birth to a son, and do not drink wine and strong drink, and do not take any unclean thing: for the husband of God is the child of the birth till the day of his death.
And the Philistines said, I have put shame on the army of Israel this day: give me a man, and we will be fighting together.
And Saul said to Jonathan, Give me what you have done. And Jonathan said to him, I have tasted a little honey in my hand; see, I am going to death.
And the Amorites made waste the children of Dan, and they did not let them go down to the Arabah.
And Saul put a spear on him to put him to death; and Jonathan was certain that his father had put David to death.
And there was a young man from Beth-lehem, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite, living there.
And while they were taking it, the band of the Lord came on every town with a very great great destruction: and he sent destruction on all the men of the town, small and great, and they had come out into their secret parts. And the bands of Gath came together and put their heads on their heads.
So Saul and his three sons and his body-covers and all his men were that same day.
But his master said to him, We will not go back to a strange town, which is not of the children of Israel, but we will go on to the town of Gibeon.
And the responsible men of the people said, How are we to do for the women who are left, seeing that the women are cut off from Benjamin?
And he sent representatives to Abimelech secretly, saying, See, the son of Shelemiah and his brothers are coming to Shechem, and they are building the town for you.
And at the time of her death, the women who were waiting by her said to her, Have no fear, for you have given birth to a son. But she gave no answer, and she did not take care of it.
And now, when you have gone away from me to day, you will see two men by Rachel's resting-place in the land of Benjamin, at the hand of Benjamin, and they will say to you, The asses which you went to search are found: and, behold, your father has gone from the care of the asses, saying, What am I to do for my son?
And he went to the town of Ramah in Ramah, and the Spirit of God was on him; and he went on his way, and he got up from there and went to Ramah at Ramah.
And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come.
And David was well in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
As it is said in the old saying, Evil will come out of the evil, and my hand will not be on you. And after whom do you come out, O king of Israel?
And where there is forgiveness, there is no more offering for sin.
And he said to God again, Let not your wrath be burning against me, if I go after you once again, and make a sign in the wool: let the wool be dry, and all the earth be wet with dew.
It is my grief that I have put up Saul to be king; for he has turned away from me, and has not kept my orders. And Samuel was angry, and he was crying to the Lord all night.
And the Levite was pleased with the man, and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
For this cause he is between a new agreement, so that, death has taken place for the salvation of the sins under the first agreement, to give effect to the word of the eternal heritage.
And there was a sign among the men of Israel, and they put up a great roll out of the town.
For we who have faith will come into that place; as he says, I have made an oath in my wrath, they will not go into my rest, though the works were ended from the foundation of the world.
And they said to him, See, you are old, and your sons do not go in your ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
For this reason God made him great, and gave him the name which is over every name.
And Saul became angry with Jonathan, and he said to him, You son of a twisted woman, do I not see that you have taken the son of Jesse to your shame, and to the shame of your mother's shame?
And they cut off his head, and took off his robe, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to give news to the house of their gods and to the people.
And let it be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is from the law, but by faith in Christ, the righteousness of God by faith.
And he sent representatives through all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters, even the Jordan, even the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim came together, and took the waters as far as Beth-peor, Jordan.
And all those who were put to death in Benjamin were five thousand men of war, ready for war.
But David went in flight and got away, and came to Samuel in Ramah, and gave him word of all that Saul had done to him: and he and Samuel went and made a living-place in the land.
For it is given to him that he has given up a secret agreement.
You are all here, O children of Israel, see what you have to do.
If you will be in fear of the Lord, and give ear to him and give ear to his voice, and do not go against the word of the Lord, you and the king who rules over you are the Lord your God.
And the people went into the woods, and the honey dropped on it, and no one put his hand to his mouth, because the people were afraid of the oath.
For this reason, dear, dear brothers, which you did not do, not as in my face only, but much more now in my need, with fear and trembling, working out your salvation.
And the Lord saw him, and said, Go in this way, and keep Israel from the hand of Midian: have I not sent you?
So do not put away your fear, for it is a great reward.
But Christ is the Son in his house, which is ours, if we keep the hope and glory of hope to the end.
Being better is better than the angels, and his heritage is greater than they.
And the king said to him, How long will you be tricked by me, and say to me falsely? Give me a cord with which you may be put to flight. And the son said to her, If you put the seven hair of my head with a cord, and put them round about a nail, I will be feeble.
For our God is a burning fire.
And the Lord said, Judah will go up; see, I have given the land into his hand.
And the Lord said to him that night, Take your father's ox, the second ox seven years old, and put down the altar of Baal which your father has, and cut down the Asherah which is by it.
And Joseph gave orders of the children of Israel by faith, and gave orders about his bones.
Now faith is waiting for us, and the things which are not seen are true.
And they saw among the people of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins who had not had sex with a man, and took them to the tent-circle at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And Saul said to Jonathan, his son, and to all his servants to put to death David, but Jonathan, the son of Saul, was pleased with David.
And he said to God, Let not your wrath be burning against me; let me go again to the wool of wool, and let the wool be dry, and let there be dew on the earth.
Who is able to give up to the foolish and to the unwise, for he himself is full of disease.
And all the men of Shechem said to him in the ears of all the men of Shechem, for they said, He is our brother.
And Saul took him that day and let him go no longer to his father's house.
And they saw the attack in the valley, attacking him, and the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
See, the king is walking before you, and I am old and dark; and, behold, my sons are with you, and I have gone before you from my youth to this day.
And Zebulun did not send out the people of the land, or the people of Succoth; but the Canaanites were living among them, and became forced to work.
So that we may keep the hope of the hope which is based on the hope which he has made,
( Of whom the world was not good), and wandering in the land, the mountains and the holes and the holes of the earth.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and put it in the house of Dagon, and put it in the house of Dagon.
And she said to the son of Barachel, Say to me, Say to me, I am making a request for you, in which your strength is resting, and that you may be put to shame.
Seeing then that the children have been taken of flesh and blood, he himself himself did take part of the same, that he might put him to death by the power of death, which is the Evil One.
Have you not turned away from yourselves, so that you may go after nothing which is not good or give up, for they are false.
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go away, go down from among the Amalekites, or I will send you to destruction with them: for you have mercy on all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites went away from the Amalekites.
And the children of Israel were crying to the Lord because of Midian.
And the fig-tree said to them, Should I give up my sweet fruit and my good fruit, and go to be honoured over the trees?
Zebulun is a people of shame, and of Naphtali, on the high places of the field.
And after him, Beth-lehem, the son of Beth-lehem, was judging Israel.
Grace be with you all.
Be certain that the brother Timothy is free, with whom, if he comes again, I will see you.
Do not be hard-hearted in your hearts, as in the day of testing in the waste land;
So David went with him, and he and the six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the stream of the river, and the rest of those who were left.
But if not, let a fire come out of Abimelech, and let it be burned up by the chiefs of Shechem and in the Millo, and let a fire come out from the chiefs of Shechem, and from Beth-Millo, and let it go to Abimelech.
And the stork went into Mizpah to his house, and his daughter was coming out to see him with timbrels and with instruments of music, but he had no son or daughter.
So that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow down to worship in heaven and things on earth and things under the earth;
Now Abimelech, the son of Jeroham, went to Shechem to his mother's brothers and said to them,
And all the people got up as one man, saying, We will not go to his tent, and we will not let us go into his house.
So they went away there to go in and to put the night in the night; and when he went in, he was seated in the public square of the town, for no one took them into his house.
And he said to David, I am certain that you are pleasing to me as an angel of God: but the chiefs of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us to the fight.
It is a fear to fall into the hands of the living God.
And they had no pity on the house of the house of Baal, for all the good things he had done to Israel.
There is grain and food for our asses, and bread and wine for me and for your woman-servant and for the young man who is with your servants: there is no need of anything.
And he said, This is what you are to say to David: The king's desire is to be a price for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to get payment for himself on the haters of the king. Now Saul had made a purpose to let David be put to death by the Philistines.
And when Saul saw that the Lord was with David, Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for him.
But as for the Son, your seat, O God, is for the eternal world, and a rod of righteousness in the kingdom of your kingdom.
While Israel was living in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns and in all the towns which are on the side of the Arnon, there were three hundred years; why were you not able to get them again?
So that we may be safe if we have gone out of the way of salvation, which the Lord has made clear to us by those who have given ear.
And Micaiah said to him, Where have you come? And he said to him, I am a Levite, a Levite in the land of Judah, and I go to a living-place where I may have a place.
And Micaiah said, Now I have knowledge that the Lord will give me good, because the Levites are to me for a priest.
And they put away the strange gods from among them, worshipping the Lord; and his soul was troubled for the evil of Israel.
And Samuel said to all Israel, See, I have given ear to your voice in all that you said to me, and I have made a king over you.
For this cause, as the Holy Spirit says, Today you will give ear to his voice;
I will come to you, to the river of Kishon, and to Sisera, and to the army of Jabin, with his war-carriages and his great army; and I will give him up into your hands.
And you have knowledge of it, you have been fair, so that in the first good news, when I went away from Macedonia, there was no division with me for giving and to give, but you only.
And Jonathan and David made a agreement, because he had love for him as his soul.
But even if I am put out as a drink offering on the offerings and in your faith, I will be glad with all of you.
Who in the days of his flesh, prayers and requests for mercy to him who was able to keep him from death, with weeping and weeping, having given ear to the fear of which he was in fear,
And she said to him, How will you say, I have love for you, when your heart is not with me? these three times you have made me make sport of me, and have not said to me where your strength is false.
Why, then, a kingdom which is not able to be moved, let us have grace, through which we may serve God with fear, with fear and fear;
And Saul took his clothing and put on other clothing, and went, he and two of his men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and said, Take care of me by the spirit, and give me the one I say to you.
So Moab was overcome that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest for eighty years.
And the Amorites sent the children of Dan to the mountain, for they had not let them go down into the valley.
For you have not come to a mountain that was to be touched, and to be burned with fire, and to be dark and dark,
Without father and without mother, having no family lists of days or the end of life, and having been made like the Son of God, will be a priest ever.
And numbers of the brothers in the Lord, being strong in my bands, have much more bold to say the word of God without fear.
And when David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life, he was in the waste land of Ziph, in the wood.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it, and gave him Achsah his daughter as his wife.
But when the king of the children of Ammon came against you, you said to me, No, but a king will rule over us, because the Lord your God was your king.
For he who has these things has been given to another tribe, and there is no one to put on the altar.
There is no one like the Lord, for there is no one but you; there is no Rock like our God.
And all the people went to Gilgal, and made Saul come there before the Lord in Gilgal, and there he gave offerings of peace-offerings before the Lord; and Saul was glad with all the men of Israel.
And what will I say to you? For the time would come to me, that I might make clear to you the words of the prophet, the son of Barachel, the son of Shimea, the son of David, the son of Samuel, and the prophets.
And the man went out of the town, out of the town of Beth-lehem, in Judah, to be a living-place where there was a living-place; and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he went on.
And the Philistines said, I have made sport of the armies of Israel this day: give me a man, so that we may be fighting together.
For this cause I am hoping to send to you quickly, so that I may see how to go with me.
To whom Abraham gave up a tenth of all sorts of things in the first place, and his name was named King of righteousness, and the king of Salem, and the king of peace.
With the fruit of righteousness, through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And the children of Israel went back from pursuing the Philistines, and they took their tents.
And all the children of Israel went up, and all the people came to Beth-el, weeping and seated there before the Lord, and on that day till evening, and made burned offerings and peace-offerings before the Lord.
The bow of the strong men is broken, and the feeble are armed with strength.
So on the day of the fight there was no sword or spear in the hands of all the army with Saul and Jonathan, but Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us take their goods till the morning light, and let us not let us go from a man among them. And they said, Do all that is good in your eyes. But the priest said, Let us go near to God.
And Jonathan sent for David, and Jonathan gave him all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, and he was before him as before.
And David overcame the land, and there was no man or woman living there, and he took away the sheep and the oxen and the oxen and the camels and the clothing; and he went back and came to heaven.
For the Lord will not give up his people for the name of his great name, because the Lord will make you his people.
So that your pride may be increased in Christ Jesus by my face again with you.
And these are the gold rods which the Philistines went back to the Lord for the sin of Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ekron, and for Ekron.
And I make request to you, brothers, the word of the comfort, because I have been writing to you by a small number.
And for a short time they gave orders to us, but he, for our profit, so that we might be holy.
By faith he went away from Egypt, and did not have fear of the king's wrath: for he was put to death, as if he had seen him who had no knowledge.
And Jonathan said to Saul his father, Why is he put to death? what has he done?
And David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, Go up to the top of Carmel, and come to the Carmelite, and make a request for him in my name.
And at Nob, the town of the priests, he overcame men and women and babies and babies and oxen and asses and sheep, with the sword.
And he said, Where are you pushing this day today? And David said, About the south of Judah and against the south of the father of Jerahmeel, and to the land of the Kenites.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not go back with you, for you have turned away from the word of the Lord, and the Lord has put you away from being king over Israel.
And as for your asses, which were for three days, do not care for them, for they have been seen. For who is all the desire of Israel? is it not for you and for all the house of your father?
And the servants of old said to him, Is not this David the king of the land? has they not made sport of one another about him, saying, Saul has put to death his thousands, David, his ten thousands?
And when they sounded three hundred horns, the Lord put the sword of every man against his neighbour in the middle of the camp, and the tents went in flight as far as Beth-horon, and went up to Abel ( the son of Eshcol), the same side of Tappuah.
And he will take a tenth of your seed and your vine-gardens, and give it to his servants and his servants.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took up the ark of the Lord, and they took it to the house of Abinadab, which was in the house of Abinadab, in the place where the Lord had given up the ark of the Lord.
And David made a request to the Lord, saying, Do I go? and have I been put to death among these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go, and you will be put to death among the Philistines, and you will be put to death.
So that my chains might be made clear in Christ in all the parts of the house and all others;
And he said to them, What have I done now as you? are not the grapes of Ephraim better than the grapes of Abiezer?
And she said to her, How long till you are overcome? put your wine away from you.
And David made an oath to Saul, and Saul went to his house; but David and his men got them up for the purpose.
It is not as if I had been in the past, or had been without effect; but I go after myself, if I may be marked by any means, in which I am overcome by Christ Jesus.
In the days of sport, the son of Shelomoth; in the days of sport the ways came to rest; and those who went by were guided by them.
And in the morning when the wine had gone out of the body of Nabal, his wife gave him word to him, and his heart was dead inside him, and he became like a stone.
To give thought to him who has undergone such things for himself from the sinners to himself, so that you may not be feeble in your souls.
But he made himself a holy place for himself; and he made an ephod and images of images, and made a priest for him.
And he said to his men, Far be it from me in the Lord, that I may do this thing to my lord, to the Lord's selection, to put out my hand against him, for he is the one of the Lord's selection.
And Jonathan went up on his hands and on his feet, and took his arms after him; and they came down before Jonathan, and his arms put to death after him.
And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was greatly troubled, and said to him, See, your servant has given ear to your voice, and I have put my life in my hands, and have given ear to your words which you have given me.
And the gold trees of the Philistines, in addition to the number of all the towns of the Philistines, all of them, walled towns and unwalled towns, even to the great stone of Abel, on which they put down the ark of the Lord: which stone is to this day in the field of Joshua, the Beth-house.
And when he had taken him down, they were stretched out over all the earth, feasting and drinking and dancing because of all the great wealth which they had taken from the land of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah.
When Jacob went into Egypt, and your fathers were crying to the Lord, and the Lord sent Moses and Aaron and took your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And Ephraim did not take away the Canaanites who were living in Gezer; but the Canaanites were living among them in Gezer.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have done wrong, because I have broken the word of the Lord and your words; for I have respect for the people and have given ear to their voice.
And when the Philistines saw David, they saw him and put him to shame, for he was a young man, and red, with a beautiful smell.
And every one who was in trouble, and every man who was in debt, and every man who had no peace, came to him, and he became a captain over them, and there were with him four hundred men.
And there was no longer any one of them, small or great, or sons or daughters, or goods or anything which they had taken; and David took all of them.
So then, brothers and sisters, be strong in the holy places in the blood of Jesus.
And Samuel said, Why do you say to me, The Lord has turned away from you and has become your enemy?
And Saul said to his servants, Give me now a man who is able to do well, and give him to me.
And Elijah said to the angel of the Lord, Let us go with us, and let us make a young goat for you.
And the oxen went straight on the road to Beth-shemesh; and they went by the direction of the same way, as they went; and they did not turn to the right hand or to the left; and the chiefs of the Philistines went after them as far as the edge of Beth-shemesh.
And Adam said to his wife, We will certainly be put to death, because we have seen God.
And after a time the children of Ammon were fighting with Israel.
And the wonder was so great that Moses said, I am troubled and troubled.
Make straight roads for your feet, so that the feeble-footed is turned from the way; but let it be well made well.
From now on till his haters are made his feet.
And they put the ark of the Lord on the cart, and the twisted instruments of gold and the images of their wounds.
Then the chiefs of the Philistines gave up to her seven green plants, which had not been dry, and put him in chains with them.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not go back with you, because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, and have put you away from being king over Israel.
And he went to Ramah in Ramah, and the Spirit of God came on him, and he went on and said to the prophet,
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of the Philistines for forty years.
And the Philistines sent for the priests and the readers of arts, saying, What may we do to the ark of the Lord? give us orders to send it to his place.
And Memucan went out through the way, shutting the doors of our face, shut them up.
And when the Philistines got up and came to David, David went quickly and went to the fight against the Philistines.
And David sent out some men, and they saw that Saul had come.
And they got up and went to Ziph before Saul; and David and his men were in the waste land, in the valley at the right hand of the wind.
And David was the youngest; and the three sons went after him.
May the Lord take care of Jonathan and Jonathan, if my father will do you damage, and if I do not give it to you, and send word to you that you may go safely, may the Lord be with you, as he has been with my father.
In the same way, the Christ, when he was offering for the sins of many, a second time, was seen by a sin-offering, to those waiting for him to be saved.
And he went down and said to the woman, and she was right in the eyes of Jonathan.
And Samuel took the horn of oil and put his oil on him in the middle of his brothers; and on that day the spirit of the Lord came to David from that day and over; and Samuel went up to Ramah.
And Gad the prophet said to David, Do not stay in the strong place: go away, and go into the land of Judah. Then David went out and came to the woods of Edom.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he who said, Will Saul rule over us? take the men, and we will put them to death.
And Samuel said to the people, Come and let us go to Gilgal, and let us make the kingdom new again.
Because passion is cruel to the church, for the righteousness of the law is upright.
Let my joy be complete, so that you may be in agreement, having the same love, one in spirit, with one purpose.
And David put up these words in his heart, and was troubled in fear of the king of Gath.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they overcame the Canaanites who were living in the town of Canaan, and put it to destruction: and the name of the town was called Hormah.
And you have sent for Jesse in the offering, and I give you knowledge of what you are doing; and you have given me the one whom I say to you.
And he took him down, and saw that they went over all the land, feasting and drinking and dancing because of all the great wealth which they had taken from the land of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah.
And the children of Israel did not remember the Lord their God, who had given them salvation from all their haters on every side.
But all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, and every one of them made use of the cutting of his land, cutting with iron and cut down.
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon were fighting with Israel, that the responsible men of Gilead went to get out of the land of Tob,
And he said to her, Get up, and let us go. But no one said, and he took her up on the ass, and the man got up and went to his place.
And the children of Benjamin did not send out the Jebusites who were living in Jerusalem; but the Jebusites were living with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
So Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went to their heritage to take the land.
And he had two wives, the name of one Hananiah, and the name of the second Phanuel, and Penuel, having no children.
But the chiefs of the Philistines were angry with him; and the chiefs of the Philistines said to him, Make the man go back to his place where you have put him to the place where you have put him to the fight, that he may not go down with us to the fight in the fight against us: for with which purpose is he to make an atonement for his master? will it not be with the heads of these men?
And Jonathan said to Jonathan, See, we will go over to these men, and we will be able to see them.
According to all the works which they have done from the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt even to this day, when they turned away from me and worship other gods, so that they might do it to you.
And the king said to her, Have no fear; for what did you see? And the woman said to Saul, I saw gods going up out of the earth.
But we are not able to give them wives from our daughters. For the children of Israel made an oath, saying, Cursed be anyone who gives a wife to Benjamin.
And Saul gave orders to his servants, saying, Have faith with David secretly, and say, See, the king has delight in you, and all his servants have love for you: now be the king's wife.
And he said to him, Have no fear; for Saul my father will not see you; and you will be king over Israel, and I will be with you, and my father Saul has knowledge.
And they said, Who is there from the tribes of Israel who did not come up to the Lord at Mizpah? And there was no one coming from Gilead to the tent-circle, to the people.
Then Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went out and took his place at the door of the town. And Abimelech got up, and the people who were with him went in flight.
About this time I will send you a man of the land of Benjamin, and you will put oil on him to be ruler over my people Israel: and he will keep my people safe from the Philistines: for I have seen my people, because their cry has come to me.
There is grass and food for our asses, and bread and wine for me and for your servant and for the young man who is with your servants; there is no need of anything.
And the priest took his offering, and took the ephod and images and metal images and went with the people.
And Midian was put to shame before the children of Israel, and they took away their heads no more; and the land had rest for forty years in the days of the rule of the Lord.
And Samuel grew up, and the Lord was with him, and did not let any of his words come true.
Then Samuel said to Saul, Be still, and I will give you news of what the Lord has said to me this night. And he said to him, Say on.
And Jonathan, the son of Saul, was glad to David, and Jonathan said to David, My father Saul is looking for you to put you to death; now, I pray you in the morning, and you have been kept in a secret place and have been kept secret.
Brethren, be your brothers together, and put a mark on them, as you have for us.
And Micah put the Levite, and the young man became a priest for him; and he was in the house of Micah.
Now when he had made an end of offering the burned offering, then Samuel came out, and Saul went out to see him, so that he might send his face to him.
Whose end is destruction, whose God is the stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, those who seem on earth.
And lifting up his eyes, he saw the man, the traveller, in a wide place of the town, and the old man said, Where are you going? and where have you come from?
And the wood of his spear is like a scale of a cloth-vessel, and the flame of his spear is about one hundred shekels of iron, and the best of the spear is going before him.
And the king said, Israel has gone in flight before the Philistines, and there has been a great slaughter among the people, and your two sons, the chief of the Levites, and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
For the law has not given effect to the limits of the law, but a cause of a good hope which we have come near to God.
And the people had pity on Benjamin, for the Lord made the tribes of Israel feeble.
And her hater made her angry, to make her angry, because the Lord had shut her up.
For my life is to be the Christ, and to death.
And it came to pass in the day of the fight, that there was no sword or spear in the hand of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan, but with Saul and his son Jonathan.
And David said, You are not to do so, my brothers, with what the Lord has given to us, who has kept us safe and gave up the band which came against us into our hands.
And when they came to the Jordan, he went over it with the three hundred men who were with him, so that they were not able to go after those who had gone away.
And Samuel gave him all the words, and kept nothing from him. And he said, It is the Lord: let him do what is good in his eyes.
And Micah said, Now I am certain that the Lord will do me good, because I have the Levites.
But those who are full of food are for those who are full of growth, who have knowledge of what is good and evil.
And again, I will put my hope in him; and again, I and the children which God has given me.
And he gave a loud cry to the Lord, and said, You have given this great salvation and salvation into the hands of your servant; and I am dead for ever, and I will be put to death in the hands of the uncircumcised.
And Saul made an altar to the Lord; the first altar he made to the Lord.
Because you did not give ear to the voice of the Lord, and did not put his wrath on Amalek, the Lord has done this to you this day.
Who gave worship to the image and the shade of all things, as it was said to Moses when he was to have the end of the House: See, he is to make all things by the design which were shown you on the mountain.
And Israel was greatly crushed because of Midian; and the children of Israel were crying to the Lord.
And the children of Dan sent five men out of the line of Beth-lehem, the town of the town of Beth-lehem, to spy out the land; and they said to them, Go and see the land. They went on their way, and when they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, they went into the house of Michmas and put their rest there.
And to Jesus the witness of a new agreement, and to the blood of the prophet than for Abel.
And the children of Midian overcame the children of Israel, and they took away their heads no more; and the land had rest for forty years in the days of the rule of the Lord.
All the saints send you their love, even those who are of Caesar's house.
And the chiefs of the Philistines went out, and David was wiser than all the servants of Saul, and his name was honoured.
By faith he kept the Passover and the blood of blood, so that he who was put to destruction did not come near them.
You are to have mercy on your servant: for you have taken your servant into a agreement with you: but if there is any wrong in me, put me to death; why do you take me to your father?
But he gave him a second part twice, because he was dear in love, though the Lord had shut her.
And the Lord gave him up with all his army into the hands of Israel; and he put him to death and took away all the land of the Amorites in the land.
And the spirit of the Lord was in him, and he was judged by Israel; and he went out to fight, and the Lord gave his power into his hands, overturning the king of Aram, overturning him.
And lifting up his eyes, he saw a traveller in the public square, and the old man said, Where are you going? and where have you come?
And it came to pass, when he had made the ark of God, that he would come down from the high place on the face of the doorway, and his neck was broken, and he was dead, for the man was old and hard, and he had the punishment of Israel for forty years.
And David was living in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelite.
And the sons of Saul: Jonathan and Elkanah and Malchijah and the names of his two daughters, the name of the oldest, and the name of the younger Michal.
And when Saul was told, he sent other men, and they were prophets; and he sent representatives again, and they were prophets.
Then David got up and went out of the hole, crying out after Saul, saying, My lord the king! And when Saul saw him, he put his face on his face to the earth and gave him honour.
And Saul went to his house at Gibeah, and the men of war with him went with him.
And when Samuel got up early to see Saul in the morning, it was given to him, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and he saw him put him up and went on to Gilgal.
So the children of Ammon came together and put up their tents in Gilead; and the children of Israel came together and put up their tents at Mizpah.
The watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw; and the people were troubled and went in flight.
Then Saul and all the people who were with him came together, and went up to the fight, and saw that the sword was against his friend, and there was a very great waste.
And the fire went up from the altar to heaven, and the angel of the Lord went up in the flames. And when he saw it, they were falling on the earth.
And David said to Abigail, Happy is the Lord, the God of Israel, who sent you today to see me.
Grace be with you all.
Now Saul had come back from following the Philistines, saying, See, David is in the waste land of En-gedi.
And now, take away my sin, and come again with me, so that I may give worship to the Lord.
And he said to her all his heart, No rod has ever come on my head, for I have been a husband to God from my mother's body: if I am cut off, then my strength will go from me, and I will become feeble, and be like a man.
For by this the old men took a witness.
And his wife was untrue to him, and went away from him to the house of her father in Beth-lehem, and was there for four months.
And the people gave worship to the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the old men who were living on Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord which he had done for Israel.
And she said to Shammah, These are the things you have made sport of me, and say to me, Say to me, Say to me, If you are to be put in chains, let the two hair of my head be cut off.
And Jonathan said to the young man, Go quickly; get up quickly; do not be slow, for Jonathan's child got up the arrows and came to his master.
And he said to his servant, Run, get ready for the arrows which I am going to get. And the child went running, and he put an arrow on him.
And we went to the south of the Philistines, and went against Judah, and against the south of Caleb, and at Ziklag, with burning fire.
And he will take a tenth of your flocks, and you will be his servants.
And the towns which the Philistines had taken from Israel, they went back to Israel from Ekron to Gath and their country; and he made Israel safe from the Philistines, and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And when he was dead, all the men of Israel who were with him went back to their tents.
And God had given ear to the voice of man, and the angel of God came back to the woman as she was seated in the field, and her husband was not with her.
Then David came to Ziklag, and sent to the chiefs of Judah his neighbours, saying, Take a blessing from the haters of the Lord.
And Abimelech, hearing that the men of the town of Shechem were gathered together,
And all Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba saw that Samuel was a prophet to the Lord.
And the children of Israel turned back again on the children of Benjamin, and overcame them with the edge of the sword, as well as the cattle and the cattle, and all the towns which were seen.
And when you give ear to what they say, then your hand will be made strong, and you will go down to the tent-circle; and he went down with his servant's rod to the outside of the armed men who were in the tent-circle.
For it is necessary for a man to be broken by the authority, because of his weakness, and because of its weakness.
So the Philistines made war with Israel, and Israel was put to flight, and every man went in flight to his tent; and there was a great number of men, and there was a great number of men.
For if we undergo the knowledge of the true faith, there is no longer sin for sin.
And he said, Take the burned offering and the peace-offerings. And he gave up the burned offering.
And the priest gave him holy; for there was no bread there but the bread which was taken away before the Lord, to put on burning bread in the day when they were taken away.
And on the hand of those who had evil and troubles, they were a wonder, and on the other side were friends of them who were in such a sort.
And Samuel got up early to see Saul in the morning, and it was told by Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and saw him put him up, and went on to Gilgal.
And Saul went down at once on the earth, and was greatly troubled by the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had no need of bread all day or night.
And as he says in another place, You are a priest for ever, in the order of Malchijah.
And the Holy Spirit gave us witness, because it was said,
And an angel of the Lord came to the woman and said to her, See, you have no child, and you have no children; but you will give birth to a son.
For God does not do wrong to your work, and to the love which you have made clear to his name, to do the work of the saints and the work.
The name of the man was the wife of Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. The woman was wise and fair, but the man was hard-hearted and was in his heart.
And we have been like all the nations, and our king has judged us and went out before us, and have overcome our battles.
But if you do evil, you will be cut off, you and your king.
And when the child came to the place where Jonathan had sent his arrows, Jonathan said to the child, Is not the arrow on you?
So Abimelech went in living in the land of Shechem, and his brothers from Shechem.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he who says, Saul is king over us; give up the men, and we will put them to death.
And because it is not without oath, ( for the people are only priests without an oath);
For it is no longer able to get again again to change the way that have been changed to change the minds of the dead, and to the taste of the Holy Spirit, and in the Holy Spirit.
And the strength of Israel will not be false, and the strength of Israel will not be changed: for he is not a man to change his mind.
Then the spirit of the Lord came on Saul, while he was seated in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing a harp in his hand.
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost, and said to Saul, his son, Take one of the young men and get up and go looking for the asses.
So the children of Israel took away the Baals and the rod and the Lord only.
And they made a agreement with them before the Lord; and David was living in the woods, and Jonathan went to his house.
And when they were put to shame till they were put to shame, he did not open the doors of the street; and they took the key and the key, and saw that their lord was dead on the earth.
So they went back and went away and put the little ones and the cattle and the goods before them.
And he said to his servants, See, you see the man's spirit: why have you taken him to me?
And the king said to the king, Have this young man come after you?
For this cause I have made a oath to the house of God, that the sin of the house of birth may not be made clean with offerings or offerings for ever.
And from the family of the children of Dan, Zorah and Zorah, six hundred men armed with war.
And when they came back, David came back from the death of the Philistines, and the women came out of all the towns of Israel, singing and dancing, to see King Saul with timbrels and with joy and instruments of music.
What then? in every way, or in the truth, or in the true word, Christ has been named; and in this I have joy and will be glad.
And all Israel had news of it and said, Saul has put an end to the army of the Philistines, and Israel has become a cause of shame to the Philistines. And the people were sent together after Saul to Gilgal.
And be seen in him, not having a righteousness of my heritage, but that which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness of God by faith;
And the rest of the men of war went in flight against the town of Gibeah, and the net was stretched out, and all the town was wounded by the sword.
In order to undergo trouble in the people of God, than to enjoy the desires of sin for a time;
You have loved righteousness and hate evil; because of this God, your God, has given you the oil of joy more than your friends.
And the man took the robe and the thing which was on it, and put it before Saul. And he said, See that which has been kept, put it before you, for it has been kept for you; for I said, I will give the people a blessing. So Saul took food with Samuel that day.
And the armed men went in flight, falling down on the town of Gibeah; and the rest of the men were waiting for them, and they overcame the whole town with the sword.
Now there was a sign between the men of Israel and the men of war, to make a cloud from the town.
And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and he is witness against you this day, and you have not seen anything in my hand. And the people said, He is witness.
And David said to Abishai, Do not put him to death: for who is able to put out his hand against the Lord, and be free?
And he put his hand into his bag, took a stone, and put it with the mouth of a man, and put it on the brow of the Philistines; and the stone was fixed in his brow, and he was falling on his face on the earth.
And the heads of Succoth say, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, so that we may give food to your army?
For I am certain that this will give me salvation through your prayer and the support of the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
And they came to their brothers in Zorah and Eshtaol; and their brothers said to them, What do you say?
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Am I still to go out to fight against the children of Benjamin my brother, or will I put an end? And the Lord said, Go up, for tomorrow I will give them into your hands.
He did great things, and overcame Amalek, and made Israel free from the hands of those who took away their goods.
And David went out; wherever Saul sent him, he made him well; and Saul put him over the men of war, and he was pleased in the eyes of all the people, and in the eyes of Saul's servants.
And the angel of the Lord came to the woman and said to her, See now, you are unable to give birth to a child, but you will give birth to a son.
And the men of Shechem put an attack on him on the top of the mountains, and took away all who went by them in the way, and it was made clear to Abimelech.
And she said to the son of Barachel, See, you have made sport of me and have given me news of deceit. Now make clear to me what is to be done.
And David said to Jonathan, Who will say to me, What is your father's answer?
And David said, As the Lord is living, the Lord will send him to death, or his day will come to death; or he will go down to the sword and be cut off.
And the five men went out to spy out the land ( that is, Laish), and said to their brothers, Do you see that there are in these houses an ephod and images and metal images and metal images?
And Deborah was living under the tree of Deborah, between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for a decision.
And when they came to the land of the Kohathites, Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come and let us go back, or let my father take care of the asses, and take care of us.
For you have need of waiting for you, so that you may give effect to the word of God.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, He is ill.
And Jesse said to his son David, Take for your brothers an ephah of this waste grain and these ten cakes, and take them quickly to the tent-circle to your brothers.
& lt; A Psalm. Of David. & gt; Let not your words be lifted up with pride; let the old things go from your mouth: for the Lord is the God of all knowledge, and to him are thoughts made ready.
And Moses had faith in all his house, as a servant, for a witness of those things which were to be said,
And at the end of ten days the Lord made the sinner, and he was dead.
See this day your eyes have seen that the Lord has given you into my hands in the hole, and I have had a desire to put you to death, but my eye has kept you safe: for I said, I will not put out my hand against my lord, because he is the Lord's selection.
So they went in flight and took him from there; and when he got up among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his arms and up.
And Samuel went back after Saul, and Saul gave worship to the Lord.
And they came to their brothers in Zorah and Eshtaol; and their brothers said to them, What do you say?
And it was made clear to them, and there went up to Mount Zemaraim, the son of Rechab,
In the faith of Noah, when he had given an answer to those things which were not seen, was moved with fear, making the ark ready for the salvation of his house, by the judging of the world, and the heritage of the righteousness which is by faith.
So let us go out to him outside the tent-circle, with his shame.
Now the God of peace, who has come back from the dead, the great keeper of the flock with the blood of an eternal agreement, our Lord Jesus,
Then he said, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel give you your request which you have asked.
And he overcame the Amalekites and overcame them, and made Israel free from the hands of those who came against them.
And at Nob, the town of the priests, he overcame him with the edge of the sword, men and women and children and babies and oxen and asses and sheep, with the sword.
And the Philistines were waiting on the mountain on the one side, and Israel was waiting on the mountain on the other side; and there was a valley between them.
And they were to let Israel see if they would keep the orders of the Lord, which he gave to their fathers by Moses.
Then David said, The Lord, the God of Israel, has given ear to certain that Saul is looking for his purpose to go to Keilah, to put destruction on the town for my name.
Make you complete in every good work to do his will, working in you what is pleasing in his eyes through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever.
And I have given him orders to the Lord: all the days of his life he has given to the Lord; and he gave worship to the Lord.
That I might have knowledge of him, and the power of his life, and the blessing of his pain, being made clear to his death;
Then the rest went down to the great men; and the people of the Lord went down for him against the strong.
And all the men of the tower of Shechem had news of it, and they went into the high place of the house of El.
And Saul got up and went down to the waste land of Ziph, with three thousand chosen men of Israel, looking for David in the waste land of Ziph.
So that he might be made like his brothers, so that he might be a man of mercy and the high priest in connection with God, to make payment for the sins of the people.
And all the responsible men of Israel came together and came to the town of God to Ramah.
And the children of Dan got up for themselves the images, and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh; he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan till the day of the destruction of the people of the land.
But Christ as a son, over his house, in whose house are we, if we keep our faith and the glory of our hope to the end.
And Saul got up and went down to the waste land of Ziph, with three thousand chosen men of Israel, looking for David in the waste land of Ziph.
And where there is forgiveness of them, there is no more offering for sin.
And the men of Israel were troubled on that day, and Saul sent for the people, saying, Cursed be the man who takes food till evening, and I have been given punishment on my haters: and no one of the people has tasted food.
And he said to him, Where is your mouth now that you say, Who is Abimelech, that we may serve him? is not this the people whom you have made sport of? go now, I pray and make war against them.
So that we may have mercy on the seat of grace, so that we may have mercy and have grace in the time of need.
And the men of Jabesh-gilead said, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you may do to us what seems good to you.
And Moses, when he had got up, would not be named the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
So they turned their backs before the men of Israel into the waste land: but the war went after them, and those who came out of the towns put them to destruction in the middle of it.
While Israel was living in Heshbon and her towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the towns which are on the limits of the Arnon, there were three hundred years; why then did you not get them back in that day?
And he said to him, See, I pray you, a man of God in this town, and the man is honoured; everything he says will come: now we go there, and he will give us our way on which we have gone.
And wisdom sent to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have you to do with me that you have come to me to fight against my land?
And they put away the strange gods from among them, worshipping the Lord; and his soul was troubled for the evil of Israel.
And he said to God, If you will give Israel salvation by my hand, as you have said,
But all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to make sport of every man his property, and his bed and his axe and his Thummim.
And David put his sword on his head in his robe, and he was attempting to go round, for he was not trained for them. And David said to Saul, I am not able to go with these men, because I am not trained to use them. So David took them away.
And without faith it is hard to be pleasing to him: for he who comes to God will have faith that he is, and he is a reward to those who are looking after him.
And they said, You have done nothing wrong with us, or have we given us trouble; you have not taken any man's hand.
And the Spirit of the Lord came down on him, and he went down to Ashkelon and put to death thirty men of them, and took their goods, and changed their robes to them, and gave them changed their robes: and his wrath was lighted and he went up to his father's house.
And they came to the position of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, See, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they have been kept secret.
Then Saul came to Samuel in the doorway, and said, Let me say, Where is the house of the prophet?
And the children of Israel said, Who is he who has not come up from all the tribes of Israel to the Lord? for the oath is against him who has not come up to the Lord to Mizpah, saying, He is certainly put to death.
The Lord has done this and much more to Jonathan; if it is pleasing to my father to do evil, then I will send you away, so that you may go in peace; and the Lord will be with you as he has been with my father.
In like manner you will be glad, and be glad with me.
And from there he went against the people of Debir: the name of Debir before that was Kiriath-sepher.
And Ephraim did not put to death the Canaanites who were living in Gezer, but they were living with him.
But if you do not give ear to the voice of the Lord, you will make the mouth of the Lord bitter, and the hand of the Lord will be against you and your fathers.
And when the people saw the people, he said to the people, See, a people come down from the mountains, and he said to him, You see the shade of the mountains as if they were the heads of men, and this is your error.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and they saw Saul sleeping and sleeping in the tent, and his spear was fixed in the earth, and Abner and the people were sleeping about him.
Do not let our work be turned away, as it is, but say to one another; and so much more, as you see the day coming near.
And he said, Let me go, for we have a meal in the town; and my brother himself has given me orders to be there; and now, if I have found grace in your eyes, let me go and see my brothers; for he has not come to the king's table.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said to the Lord, O Lord God, keep me in mind and make my prayer to you, O God, that I may be responsible for the destruction of the Philistines for my two eyes.
And where there is forgiveness of them, there is no longer an offering for sin.
And when Saul and all Israel had news of the words of the Philistines, they were troubled and full of fear.
Then Shammah the son went down, and his father and mother went to Timnah, and came to the vine-gardens of Timnah: and there was a young lion on his head.
And the Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel, and he said to them, The Lord, the God of Israel, says, I took you up out of Egypt, and took you out of the prison-house.
And he put an end to them from Aroer, till you came to the waste of Minnith and of the twenty towns, with a very great slaughter; and the children of Ammon were overcome before the children of Israel.
The Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east went in the valley like a swarm of locusts, and their camels were not numbered as the sand by the sea.
And they gave them the images of Micah, which he had made, all the days of the house of God at Shiloh.
Let your love be on your name.
I have not been sinning against you, but you are the one who has done wrong against me: let the Lord judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And fear the falling into the hands of the living God.
For for a short time they gave us punishment as it seemed good to them, but he for our profit, so that we may be in his holy position.
But give you help one another day, while the day is named, so that no one may be made hard by the deceit of the sin.
And Jonathan said to the young man who gave his war-arms, Come, let us go over to the tents of these men, and it may be that the Lord will do for us; for there is no division in the Lord for a long time or a small number.
For Christ has not come into the holy places made with hands, but in the true way, but in heaven, to come to God for us.
And after that, when David had put the robe on the robe of Saul,
And the land had rest for forty years; and Othniel, the son of Kenaz, died.
And when he had taken it in his hands, he went on eating, and came to his father and mother, and gave them food; but he would not say to them that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
And when it was so, he took the wool from the wool, and was full of the dew.
Where your fathers have tested me, testing me for forty years.
I was sad that I made Saul king, for he had turned away from me, and did not keep my word. And Samuel became angry and went to the Lord all night.
And Saul sent representatives to take David; and when they saw the words of the prophets, Samuel and Samuel were the head over them, and the Spirit of God came on the servants of Saul, and they were prophets.
And he said, I say to you, my lord, what am I to give up Israel? See, my family is to Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And Moses said, I am full of fear and overcome with fear.
And he got up his fifty war-carriages, armed with hooks, and all his army from the ends of the nations to the stream.
So now, go up by night, you and the people who are with you, and be waiting in the field.
And when he had given up the burned offering, he came, and Saul went out to see him, to give him blessing.
And Samuel said to Saul, You have done a foolish thing: you have not kept the orders of the Lord your God which he gave you; for now the Lord has made your kingdom rule over Israel for ever.
And his wife was untrue to him, and went away from him to Beth-lehem, her father's house, and was there for four months.
And this is what you are to say to him who is living in peace: Peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have.
But you have turned away from me, and have gone after other gods, and I will not keep you safe.
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man? and who is like you in Israel? why have you not kept watch over your lord the king? for one of the people had come to destruction the king, your lord.
And laughing came to Mizpah, and his daughter went out to see him with timbrels and dancing; and she was his only child, and had no son or daughter.
And Samuel was crying to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain that day.
Now if he was on the earth, he would not be a priest, because there are those who give the offerings by the law.
And he went together to him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and overcame Israel, and they took the town of power.
And Jehoash said to all those who were against him, Will you make a decision against Baal? will you keep him safe? If anyone takes a fight for him, he will be put to death by the morning: if he is a god, let him go to his place for himself, because his altar is pulled down.
And a certain man was dead, and was put to death in Beth-lehem.
And these are the vessels of gold which the Philistines went back as an offering to the Lord: one for Ashdod, and Ashkelon, one, and Gath, one; and Ekron, one;
And the children of Israel went out to the fight against Benjamin; and the men of Israel put the war on them at Gibeah.
All things you have put under the feet of his feet, and have given all things to him all things: he has no power to give him power, and now we see all things under him.
And the king's name was named Zebulun and Naphtali, and he went up with ten thousand men, and Deborah went up with him.
But take care of the doors of our house, and keep them safe.
This is not good, that you have done: as the Lord lives, you are the sons of death, who have not kept your master, the king of the Lord: where is the king's spear and the cup of water which was in his head?
And the weight of the cutting sticks and the scale, and a third of a shekel for the cutting and the axe, and for the cutting sticks,
And the three grain-ls sounded with the horns, and the vessels were broken with their hands, and with their right hand on the lights, and with their right hand on the horns; and they said, The sword of the Lord and of the Lord.
And he went and got a young goat and made cakes of meal of an ephah of meal, and put meat in a basket, and put in a vessel of soup, and put them to him under the tree and gave them to him.
So let us, as many as are without doubt, take note of this way; and if you say anything in anything, God will make it clear to you.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he came in and went out before them.
And he said, Let me go to death with the Philistines, and let me go down with all his strength; and the house came down on the heads and on all the people who were in it. So the dead which he put to death was more than they had been put to death.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before the Lord in Gilgal, and there they gave offerings of peace-offerings before the Lord; and Saul and all the men of Israel were glad.
And she said to him, How can you say, I love you, when your heart is not with me? and these three times you have made sport of me, and have not said to me in the place where your strength is gone.
Take care of the sin of your servant, for the Lord will certainly make a safe house to my lord, for the war of the Lord has come to my lord, and evil is not in you for ever.
And there was a young man from Beth-lehem in Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite, living there.
And when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the waste land as far as the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And they cut off his head and took away his goods and sent to the land of the Philistines round about, preaching the news of the house of their gods and the people.
And gave him a cake of figs, and two cakes of dry bread, and he gave him food, and his spirit came back to him: for he had no bread and had no water for three days and three nights.
And when she saw that he had given news to her all his heart, she sent for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up quickly, for he has given me all his heart. Then the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her, and took the money in their hands.
Then all the children of Israel and all the people went up to Beth-el, weeping and seated there before the Lord, and went without food till evening; and they made offerings and peace-offerings before the Lord.
And they gave him fifteen and ten shekels of silver from the house of Baal, which Abimelech made for nothing and for the light, who went after him.
You made him a little than servants, with glory and honour; and you made him over the works of your hands.
But it is necessary for me to send to you, you, my brother, and my friend, and a man of war, but your servant and my servant;
Where your fathers have made me testing me, and have seen my works for forty years.
Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went to his house at Gibeah of Saul.
And he put down the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of the Lord, and overcame the people of fifty thousand and seventy men: and the people were weeping, because the Lord had made a great number of the people with a great slaughter.
And when you come to the quiet people, and the land is stretched out on all sides, God has given a place into your hands where there is no need of anything on the earth.
And Jesse made seven of his sons before Samuel; but Samuel said, The Lord has not taken any of these.
And let these signs come to you, so that you may be your servant, for God is with you.
If you will be in fear of the Lord, and worship him, and give ear to his voice, and do not be uncontrolled against what the Lord says, you and the king who rules over you will go after the Lord your God.
And all the chiefs of the people and all the tribes of Israel came together in the meeting of the children of God, four hundred thousand footmen ready for war.
And Jonathan got up from the table in the heat of wrath, and did not have food on the second day of the new moon, because he was angry with David; for his father put him to shame.
And of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were men of war.
And the children of Israel said, Who in the church has not come up from all the tribes of Israel to the Lord? For whoever did not come up to the Lord at Mizpah said, He will certainly be put to death.
And Saul and his son Jonathan and the people who were present with them were in the town of Benjamin; but the Philistines put up their tents in secret.
And Abigail wife of Nabal had one young of the young men of the young men, saying, See, David sent men out of the waste country to give a blessing to our lord, and he went in flight on them.
And the children of Israel gave to Eglon, king of Moab, for eighteen years.
But if you are without training, of which all have been given together, you are untrue, and not children.
And Saul came to Samuel in the middle of the town, and said, Say to me, Where is the house of the prophet?
And Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him. And Abimelech took the great axe in his hand, cutting off the branches of the trees, lifting it up, put on his shoulder, and said to the people who were with him, What you have seen I have done quickly.
And the men of the army said to Jonathan and his armor, Come up to us, and we will give you a thing. And Jonathan said to his servant, Come up after me, for the Lord has given them over to Israel.
And Saul was attempting to put David to the force of the wall with his spear. And David was taken away from Saul, and the spear was waiting for him and was put in the wall; and David went in flight that night.
And the attackers came out from the tents of the Philistines in three bands, and one went to the way of Ophrah, to the land of weeping.
And he says in another place, You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And God did so that night; for it was dry on the wool, and there was dew on all the earth.
And Saul was still in fear of David, and Saul became king over David all the time.
And what will I say to you? For the time will come to me, when I will take care of the rod, and the horn, and the wise, and the topaz, and the flower, and David, and Samuel, and the prophets;
Grace be with you all.
Now the Spirit of the Lord went away from Saul, and the spirit of the Lord was troubled by the Lord.
But the fig-tree said to them, Is it possible for me to go away from my sweet value and my good fruit, and go to my place and lifted up the trees?
But if you are living in the flesh, if this will give fruit from my work, then what I will give I am not certain.
And Saul went from after the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
And the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, on the other side of Jordan, saw that the children of Israel had gone away, and that Saul was dead and his sons had gone away from their towns and went in flight; and the Philistines came and made their living-place there.
And the Lord said, Judah will go up; see, I have given the land into his hand.
There is a blessing from all sorts of argument, but happy is the better.
And they came together to Mizpah and got water, draining it out before the Lord, and went without food on that day, and said there, We have done evil against the Lord. And the children of Israel have been judged in Mizpah.
And in no fear of those who are against them, who are for them a sign of destruction, but of your salvation, and of your salvation.
Zebulun was a people who put their life to death, and Naphtali on the high places of the field.
And David said, As the Lord is living, if the Lord will send punishment on him, or his day will come to death, or he will go down to the sword and be cut off.
And Jonathan and David made a agreement, because he had love for him as his soul.
And when Israel became strong, they made the Canaanite work, but they were not able to take them out.
But there was a strong tower in the middle of the town, and all the men, women and women of the town, went in flight and shut themselves in, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And David took away from her hands what she had given him, and said to her, Go in peace to your house; see, I have given ear to your voice and take your face.
And his mother's brothers said to him all the men of Shechem, saying, He is our brother.
And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites in Gezer; and the Canaanites were living in Gezer.
And Saul made an altar to the Lord, the first altar he made to the Lord.
And Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Go with me into my land, and let us fight against the Canaanite, and I will go with you in your land. And Simeon went with him.
And David put his sword on his armor, and he went in search to go, for he had not tested it. And David said to Saul, I am not able to go with these men, for I have not seen them. And David put them off.
And the trees say to the vine, Come, rule over us.
And they lifted up their voices and said to them, What is your trouble? why are you crying?
And over it the glory of the glory of the cover, which is not now the time to say.
Do not put away your faith, for it is great to reward.
And the thorn says to the trees, If you have made me king over you, come and take safe my shade in my shade; if not, let fire go out from among the thorns, and burn down the cedars of Lebanon.
And when the Lord gave them judges, then the Lord was with the judge, and gave them salvation from the hand of their haters all the days of the judge: for it was changed to the Lord because of their cries of grief from the face of their haters and driving them away.
And the men of the town said to Joash, Take your son, and he will be dead, because he has broken down the altar of Baal, and because he has cut down the image which is by it.
And the people saw him, and gave praise to their god: for they said, Our god has given our haters those who hate us, and have made our land waste, and have put us to death.
And Saul put on David's dress, and put a head-dress of brass on his head, and put a robe on him.
And they said to him, See, you are to say sharp words. And if he said, He is not able to give orders, because he was not able to make it clear; and they took him and put him to death at the Jordan at the Jordan, and forty-two thousand from Ephraim came to death.
Because of you it was given to you for Christ, not only to have faith in him, but also for him to undergo.
By faith the wife of the woman did not have the faith of her who did not have faith, when she had taken the men of men with peace.
But you will not take away your mercy from my house for ever: no, when the Lord has cut off the haters of David from the face of the earth.
And the children of the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the town of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the waste land of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and were living among the people.
When you saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, came against you, you said to me, No, but a king will rule over us, when the Lord your God was your king.
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give cakes of bread to the people who are at my feet, for they have been feeble, and have gone after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And Jonathan, Saul's son, got up and went to David into the woods and made his hands strong in God.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out and came in before them.
And David and Jonathan made a agreement; for he had love for him as his soul.
And it came to pass at that time, when he was put in his place, his eyes became dark, and he was not able to see.
And he said to them, Go after me; for the Lord has given you the Moabites, the Moabites, into your hands. And they went down with him, and took the Jordan on Moab, and did not let a man go over.
Why did you not give ear to the voice of the Lord, and let you be put to shame with a loud voice? you have done evil in the eyes of the Lord.
But there is a great fear of what is right, and a burning fire, burning up those who are against them.
But today you have come up against the house of my father, and have put to death his sons, seventy men on one stone, and Abimelech, the son of his servant, a king over Shechem, because he is your brothers.
And he put destruction on the men of Beth-shemesh, for they saw the ark of the Lord, and overcame seventy men, and the people were sad, because the Lord had put a great disease among the people.
And we desire that every one of you may give the same care to the end of hope to the end.
And early in the morning they got up early in front of the ark of the Lord, and the head of Dagon was cut down on his face before the ark of the Lord, and the top of his hands was cut off on the doorstep, and the tree was parted to him.
And Gad, the prophet, said to David, Do not be quiet, go away, and go into the land of Judah. Then David went on and came into the woods of Eshcol.
And Joseph went up to Beth-el, and the Lord was with them.
And every one of them was in trouble, and every one who was in debt; and every one of a bitter spirit came round him, and he became a captain over them, and there were with him four hundred men.
And they put him in the land of his heritage in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill-country of Gaash.
And put it in the fire, or into the pot, or into the pot, or into the pot, or into the pot, so that the priest would take for himself all the men of Israel who came there at Shiloh.
And when Saul was told that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, God has given him into my hand, for he is shut in by the way of the town and the bars.
Now the Midianites and Amalek and all the people of the east were sleeping in the valley, like a great number of locusts, and their camels were not numbered as the sand on the sea.
And in this place they will not come into my rest.
And she said to the son of Barachel, Until now you have made sport of me and have said evil things to me, and say to me how you are able to be put to shame. And he said to her, If you have put the hair of my head in the threads of my head,
But make clear to the memory of the first days, in which you have been made clear, you have undergone a great fight.
And he took him into his house, and gave food to the asses, and they washed their feet and gave food and drink.
And in this place they will not go into my rest.
All the men of Gilead came together, and he made war with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead overcame Ephraim, because they said, You are safe of Ephraim, O Gilead, in the middle of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And when Saul saw the band of the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was troubled.
For nothing is in mind, but in all things by prayer, and by prayer, with prayers, let your requests be made clear to God.
That in the name of Jesus every knee may bow, and the earth is false, and the earth is false, and everything under earth.
And when they came there to the mountain, a band of prophets came to him, and the Spirit of God came on him, and he was talking with them.
And the five men went away and came to the town of Laish; and they saw the people who were in it, safe and quiet, and quiet and safe; and there was no one in the land who had power to put to shame in anything; and they were far from the Zidonians, and had nothing to do with man.
But if you are fearing to go down, go and go with your servant to the tent-circle.
And to those in Aroer, and to those in En-dor, and to those who were in Eshtemoa,
And Samuel said to the people, Have no fear, you have done all this evil: but still do not go away from the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart.
Now Gilead had a wife of whom he had sons: when they had grown up, they put out laughing, saying, You are not able to get the heritage of our father, because you are the mother of another mother.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out to them and said, No, my brothers, do not do evil, for this man has come in to my house; do not do this foolish thing.
For it is not a man who takes care of himself, but of the seed of Abraham.
And of the angels he says, He makes his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire.
And David said, You will see what your servant is to do. And David said to David, So I will put you in the care of my man for ever.
And Samuel said to him all the way, and put nothing from him. And he said, It is the Lord; let him do what seems good to him.
And the Philistines came to David, and went near to David, with his armed men before him.
And he made him a sword with the edge of two edges; and he put it on his robe on his robe.
Some of love, knowing that I am put to the answer of the good news.
She puts her hand to the place of the nails, and her right hand to the hammer; and with the hammer she sent to Sisera, and she put his head to shame, when she was wounded in his houses.
And the Lord said to the people of Israel, The people who are with you are too much for me to give Midian into their hands, so that Israel will not be moved against me, saying, My hand has made me safe.
Because of the blood of the ox, and for the blood of goats.
So David and his men got up early in the morning to go back to the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
See, you are all children of Israel; give your counsel and your designs.
And a head-dress of brass was on his head; and a band of brass was on him; and the weight of the robe was five thousand shekels of brass;
And six hundred men turned and went in flight into the waste land for the rock Rimmon, and stayed in the rock for four months.
And to God, our Father, be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land; see, I pray you, how my eyes are shining, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
And the men of Israel said to the king, Rule over us, you and your son and your son's son, because you have kept us safe from Midian.
Then Hananiah said, My heart is full of joy in the Lord, and my strength is lifted up in the Lord; I have taken care of my haters, and I am glad about your salvation.
And the Lord overcame them before the children of Israel, and they put them to death in that day five and twenty thousand, one hundred men and all fighting men.
So Saul went back from following David, and went against the Philistines; and they gave the name of the place the name of Sela.
And I say to you, O worker, take care of the women who are in the good news of the good news and of the good news and the others, my workmen, whose name is in the book of life.
So all the people cut down every branch for himself and went after Abimelech; and they put them on the arch, and put the arch on them, and all the men of Shechem came to death, about a thousand men and women.
And Saul and all the people who were with him were called together, and they came to the fight; and, behold, every man's sword was against his neighbour, a very great fear.
And for forty years, when he was angry, was it not with those who did evil, whose bodies were in the waste land?
And to the sound of the horn, and to the sound of the words which were given to them, so that not another word be given to them.
And they say to Sisera, The son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, has gone up to Mount Tabor;
And the six hundred men of the children of Dan were armed with instruments of war, at the door of the doorway.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to their voice, make them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his town.
And when he had gone away from Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all these signs came on that day.
And put on the parts of the stomach, and the legs, and the meat-hooks, and the metal cutters, and put the rods on them.
Then the children of Israel got up and went up to Beth-el, questioning God, saying, Who will go up first for the fight against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said, Judah will go first.
Let your upright behaviour be without profit; for he has said, I will not go away from you, and I will not give you up.
And David took back all the Amalekites, and took away his two wives.
Now there was a man of Ramah named him, of the hill-country of Ephraim; and Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of the children of Ephraim,
If he says good things, it will be peace for your servant; but if he is very angry, see that he has made a decision against me.
Woe to us! who is able to give us salvation from the hand of these great gods? These are the gods who put the Egyptians in the waste land.
For Christ has not come into the holy places made with hands, but in the image of the true way, but in heaven, to come before God for us;
And the house was full of men and women, and all the captains of the Philistines were there, about three thousand men and women on the roof, watching the work of the son of Shimea.
Is not this David, of whom they gave an answer, saying, Saul has sent punishment on his thousands, and David is among his ten thousands?
And in the morning Jonathan went out into the field, and the place was made with David, and a little child with him.
( Of whom the world was not good), wandering in the earth and in the mountains and in holes and in the holes of the earth.
The Lord was seen in Shiloh, for the Lord had given himself to Samuel at Shiloh, by the word of the Lord.
And Saul said to David, Happy are you, my son David: and you will do well, and overcome yourself. And David went on his way, and Saul went back to his place.
Your servant overcame the lion and the bear; and the Philistines were like one of them, seeing he has made sport of the armies of the living God.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go back to its place, and not put us to death and our people.
And I said to you, I am the Lord your God: fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living; but you have not kept my voice.
I give praise to my God in all memory of you;
Then all the Midianites and Amalek and the people of the east came together, and went over Jordan; and they put up their tents in the valley of Jezreel.
By faith he kept the Passover, and the blood of the blood, so that the destruction of the first was not touched them.
And the name of the man was the wife of Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail; and the woman was of good sense and of a beautiful face; but the man was full of fear and evil in his works, and he was a sinner.
So that we may be ready to go into that place, so that no one may be put to shame in the way of the evil-doer.
And her husband got up and went after her, to give her a blessing, with his servant and two asses, and took him into her father's house; and when the girl's father saw him, he was glad to see him.
And Deborah, the son of Abinadab, was on that day, saying,
This is what the Lord of armies has said: I have taken note of all that Amalek has done to Israel: how he has been against them when they came up out of Egypt.
And the land of the Amorites was from the slope of Akrabbim, from the rock and over.
But one of the young men gave birth to Abigail, the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, See, David sent men from the waste country to our master, and he made sport of them.
And David was greatly troubled, for the people were stoning him; for the soul of all the people was bitter, every man for his sons and daughters, but David made himself strong in the Lord his God.
Not that I am talking with you; for I have knowledge of myself, in whatever I am, to be full.
Grace be with you all.
Not turning away from our church, as some have been in the past, but giving one another to comfort, as you see the day coming.
Now when David had knowledge that Saul had made an evil design against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Take the ephod.
And he had forty sons, and of them, thirty sons, seated on the seventy ass of Israel, and he judged Israel for eight years.
And the daughters of Israel had no rest in Israel, till it came to the end of my weeping, so that there was a mother in Israel.
And in that day you will cry out from the face of the king, whom you have marked out for yourselves: and the Lord will not give ear to you in that day, because you have been looking for a king.
Now there was a certain man of Saul's servants who were there in the house of the Lord, and his name was cut off, of Edom, the chief of Saul's herdmen.
And to Sisera and all his war-carriages, and all the people who were with him, and all the people who were with him, came to the river of Kishon.
And he said, I have done wrong; now give me honour before the chiefs of my people and Israel, so that I may give worship to the Lord your God.
By the faith we are certain that the world has made the world made by the word of God, so that the things which are not seen are made clear.
And the Philistines went up and put up their tents in Judah, and put themselves in a meeting place.
And there is no one who is not seen in his eyes: but all things are without clothing, and in the eyes of the man we have to do.
For the rest of the rest, my brothers, have joy in the Lord: to make clear to you the same things, not to me, and to keep you safe.
And Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to put you king over his people, over Israel: and now, give ear to the voice of the Lord.
And the Philistines had news that the children of Israel had come together at Mizpah; and the chiefs of the Philistines went up against Israel; and the children of Israel had news of fear of the Philistines.
But the high priest only in the year, without blood, which he gives for himself, and for the error of the people.
And David made an oath, and said, Your father has knowledge that I have seen grace in your eyes; and he says, Do not let Jonathan see this, or he will be sad: but truly as the Lord is living, and as your soul is life, there is a way between me and death.
And because of this, he was like the people, so that he might give himself for sin.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Mary, the sons of Heli, were put to death.
And the Lord said to him, The people who are with you are too much for me to give the Midianites into their hands, or Israel has said against me, My hand has made me safe.
And when the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord for help from Midian,
And Samuel said to all the people, Truly you see the man whom the Lord has chosen, that there is no one like him among all the people. And all the people said, Truly, God gives the king salvation.
And he said to the Lord, O Lord God, remember me, and give back to me now my strength, O my God, so that I may take payment for myself on my haters, and for the loss of my two eyes I may take one payment.
Then David said to Ahimelech the Hittite and Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, to Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul to the tent-circle? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
You made him a little lower than the angels; you crowned him with glory and honour, and put him over the works of your hands.
And they went up into the direction of the town and saw young women going out to get water, and said to them, Is this the man's seer?
Now no training for the meal seems for joy, but it is hard; but later it gives the good fruit of righteousness to those who are in effect.
Then all the children of Israel went out, and the people came together, from Dan to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, to the Lord at Mizpah.
And he said to him, We are journeying from Beth-lehem to the hill-country of Ephraim, and from there is I; and I went to Beth-lehem in Judah, and I had to do with the house of the Lord: and no one took me into his house.
And before they were burned up the fat, the servant's servant came and said to the man who was offering, Give meat to the priest, for he will not take food from you, but be open.
For as long as the son of Jesse is living on earth, you will not be made strong or your kingdom. So now send and take him to me, for he is the son of death.
And one of the young men said, See, I have seen a son of Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem, a man of war, a man of war, a man of war, a wise man, and a wise man, and the Lord is with him.
So now, let me take care of you, take no wine or strong drink, and do not take any unclean thing.
And they put his arms in the house of Ashtaroth, and put his body on the wall of Beth-shan.
And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and his oil is witness this day, and you have not been in my hands. And they said, He is witness.
For after whom have the king of Israel come out? and after whom are you going after? and after a dead dog, after a minute?
So Saul took him away from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came before the people.
And you will see your walls in the Temple, in all the good things of Israel, and there will be no old man in your house for ever.
For this reason God made him great, and gave him a name, which is above every name,
And the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and he was crushing it like a young goat, and nothing was in his hand; and he did not make clear to his father or his mother what he had done.
And this we will do, if God allows.
May not the Lord be able to put out my hand against the king of the Lord; but now take the spear, and let us go.
Now these things have been done in this way: the priests go into the first meeting, as they do their work.
And the woman went quickly and said to her husband, See, he has been seen by me, the man who came to me on the day.
For there is a division of the law which goes before when it is feeble, and without self-control;
And Saul put up their tents in the high place of the waste land, by the way where David was living in the waste land; and he saw that Saul had come after him in the waste land.
As it is possible for me to take care of you all, for I have you in my heart, and that in my chains and in my arms and in the cause of the good news you are all in my joy.
And the Philistines got ready for war against Israel; and the fighting was long till Israel was put to death before the Philistines, and they put to death about four thousand men in the land.
So the daughters of Israel went to make a song of grief to the daughter of laughing, four days in a year.
And it is said, Today if you will give ear to his voice, not your hearts, as in the wrath.
And David and his men went to Keilah, and made war with the Philistines, and took their cattle and put them to death with a great slaughter. And David kept the people of Keilah.
By faith Abraham, when he made an offering to Isaac; and he who had given the oath gave up his only son.
And he said to him, O my lord, if the Lord is with us, why has all this has been done to us? and where are all his wonders which our fathers said to us, Did not the Lord give us up out of Egypt? But now the Lord has put us away, and has given us up into the hands of Midian.
And she said to him, Give me a gift, for you have given me the land of the South, and give me a fountain of water. And Caleb gave her the upper and lower spring.
And the God of peace, who has come up from the dead, the great Shepherd of the flock, in the blood of an eternal agreement, which is our Lord Jesus,
And he took for himself three thousand men from Israel, and there were two thousand men with Saul, at Michmash, in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand of Jonathan, in the hill-country of Benjamin; and he sent the rest of the people to his tent.
For this reason the old men have given witness to it.
And Samuel said to all Israel, See, I have given ear to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.
Which we have put up by the purpose of the soul, the right and strong, and go into the veil;
But the chiefs of the Philistines were angry with him, and they said to him, Let this man go back and keep in his place, which you have given him, and let him not go down with us to the fight, or he will be an enemy to us when we make war; for how can he say to his master, but with our heads?
And Saul and all the people who were with him came together and came to the fight; and, behold, every man's sword was against his neighbour, and there was a very great trouble.
And the Philistines were hearing the noise of the crying, saying, The noise of this great cry in the tents of the Hebrews! And they saw that the ark of the Lord came in to the tent-circle.
In all my prayer for all of you, making the prayer with joy.
Now give attention to their voice, but still give them an oath, and make clear to them the way of the king who will rule over them.
Now he was king of Salem, the priest of the Most High God, who came to Abraham from the death of the kings and gave him his blessing.
And they said to laughing, Come and be our chief, so that we may go against the children of Ammon.
And David was in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
Because of the love of God, against the church of God; because of the righteousness which is in the law, there is no wrong.
And David said to him, Will you take me down to this band? And he said, Give me word by God that you will not put me to death, and that you will not give me into my master's hand; then I will take you down to this band.
Of whom we have much more to say, and hard to be used to say, because you have been made low.
For the priesthood is changed, and the law is changed from the law.
And Saul went on his way to the town of Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose heart had been touched.
And when Saul had news that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, God has given him into my hands, for he is shut in, and he is going into a town that has walls and rods.
And when they were crying out to the children of Dan, they turned their faces and said to Micah, What is your trouble, that you come with such a company?
And he had a head-dress of brass on his head, and he was clothed with a robe of mail; and the weight of the robe was five thousand shekels of brass.
And when the angel of the Lord had said these words to all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and were weeping.
And that night the Lord said to him, Up to the army, for I have given it into your hands.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, See, I have said to you, This is the man who will be my people.
So that we may be full of fear, lest any one of you may come to his rest, if any of you seem to be a little man,
And when she came to her husband, she said, See, the man has been seen to me before.
In the days of the grain-cutting, the son of Jonathan went to his wife with a young goat. And he said, I will go in to my wife in the bedroom, but her father would not let him go in.
And the angel of God said to him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and put them on this rock, and put out the soup of spices. And he did so.
And when Abigail saw David, she got up quickly and got off the ass, and falling down before David, they came to her face and gave worship to the earth.
And David said to Abiathar, the priest, the son of Ahimelech, Come near to me, the ephod. And Abiathar took the ephod to David.
For where we sin, having knowledge of the knowledge of the truth, there is no longer any sin for sin;
And the men of Jabesh-gilead said to the children of Ammon, Tomorrow we come out to you, and you have done to us all that is good in your eyes.
And David got up after him, and went out of the hole after Saul, crying out, saying, My lord the king! And when Saul saw him, he put his face to the earth, worshipping him.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and made war with all his haters, against Moab, against the children of Ammon, against Edom, against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and he gave punishment to all those who were against him.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have done wrong: do you to us whatever seems good to you: give us only to this day.
And the man said to him, I am he who came out of the army, and I went in flight to day from the army. And he said, What is there, my son?
And he will take them to make himself captains over thousands and over fifties, and to get up his land, and take his grain, and get his grain and the instruments of his war-carriages.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other Phanuel; and over the last she had no children.
And David got up, and went with his men, and overcame two hundred men among the Philistines; and David took their rods and put them before the king to be the son-in-law of the king; and Saul gave him her daughter Michal for a wife.
And after him was Abdon, the son of Zerah, the Pirathonite, who was responsible for Israel.
And when Samuel had made all the tribes of Israel come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And they took their place round about the tent-circle, and all the army came running; and they got up with a loud voice and put them in flight.
But I am troubled by all, having the desire for death and being with Christ.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and they took the ark of the agreement of the Lord of armies, who is seated between the winged ones: and the two sons of the agreement, the Hebronites and Phinehas, were with the ark of the agreement of God.
And David made a cry to the people and to Abner, the son of Ner,
And Samuel gave him all the words, and had not kept secret from him: and he said, This is the Lord; he will do what is good in his eyes.
And at the end of the year, when she came to the house of the Lord, she made her angry: and she was crying and did not have food.
And the tents of Sisera went in flight to the tent of Japheth, the wife of Eber, the Kenites; for there was peace between Jabin, the king of Hazor, and the land of Eber the Kenites.
The Lord has done this to Jonathan, and more, let it please my father to do you evil, if I do not give it to you and send you away, so that you may go in peace. May the Lord be with you, as he has been with my father.
But as the Lord lives, the God of Israel, who has kept me from attacking you, if you had not gone quickly and come to me, certainly there would not have been a male from the first to the light of the dead.
And the people, the men of Israel, took their heart, and put up their position in the place where they put themselves in position the first day.
And he took it down to his hands, and went on his way and went and got food; and he went to his father and mother and gave them food, and he gave them no food, and he gave them nothing from the body of the lion.
And Adoni-zedek said, There were sixty kings and ten kings, having their thumbs and toes cut off and put their food under my table: as I have done, so God has given me punishment. And they took him to Jerusalem, and there he was dead.
And David went out when Saul sent him, and he was in his place; and he put him in position over the men of war, and it pleased all the people and pleased the servants of Saul.
And she said to him, If you have been untrue to me, and have said to me falsely, give me a word with which you are put to shame. And he said to her, If you put the two hair on my head in the robe.
Now David was the son of Beth-lehem, the son of Beth-lehem, of Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons, and the man went with him for a certain man in the days of Saul.
So Abimelech got up, and all the people who were with him by night, and they were waiting for him in four bands.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and took them into the room, and gave them a place at the head of those who had been invited; and they were about thirty persons.
Be free from the love of money, for he has said, I will not go away from you, and I will not go from you.
And the woman said to him, See, you have knowledge of what Saul has done, and how he has taken away the secret spirits and the readers of spirits out of the land: why then have you put a net for my life, to cause me to die?
This day the Lord will give you into my hand, and I will put you to death, and I will take away your head from you: and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the earth: and all the earth may be certain that there is a God in Israel.
And they would not be full of his words; which the man saw, took out his wife, and put her away to their evil-doing; and when they had made her cruel all the night, they let her go in the morning.
And the Levite was pleased with the man, and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
And she gave the child a name, saying, The glory has gone away from Israel; because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And there was a shaking in the tents, and in the fields, and among all the people; and the armed men and those who came to war were shaking, and the earth was shaking: and there was a very great fear.
And David went out to the place where Saul sent him, and he was wise; and Saul put him over the men of war, and he was pleased in the eyes of all the people, and in the eyes of Saul's servants.
And give these ten sticks to the captain of their thousand and see how your brothers are doing, and give news.
So David took the spear, and the cup of water which was on Saul's head, and they went away: and no man saw it, or had knowledge of it, but they were all sleeping: for a deep sleep from the Lord was falling on them.
Have they not gone up? have they not taken the goods of war, to every man or two, to Sisera and to Sisera, with all sorts of needlework, and with all sorts of needlework, for the neck of those who take the goods?
And David said to the Lord, Will I go after this band of men? will I go after them? And he said to him, Go after them; for you will certainly overtake them, and you will be safe.
And the women again took their dead again by the dead; and others were troubled, not having given salvation, so that they might get a better life.
And he gave an oath that he would not go into his rest, but those who had not given ear to the word.
And the army of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
And the Philistines put themselves in position against Israel; and when they came to war, Israel was overcome by the Philistines; and they put to death in the field four thousand men.
And the form of fear was the thing which Moses said; I was greatly troubled and troubled.
And be certain that our brother Timothy has been free, with whom he comes quickly, I will see you.
If by any means I might have power to come to life from the dead.
Do not be hard-hearted in your hearts, as in the day of the punishment in the waste land,
So the men did so; and they took two oxen and gave them up to the wagon, and their oxen were shut up.
The things which you have had knowledge, and get up, and give ear, and see in me, and the God of peace will be with you.
And if your father had a desire for me, and you said, Let me go quickly to Beth-lehem, his town, for a sin-offering for all the family.
For for food, and for food, and for another time, is a law given to us till the time when the time is fixed.
And the child, when he came up, got up and was pleased with the Lord and men.
And every man who is left of your house will come to him for a little bag of silver and a cake of bread, and he will say, Put me to one of the priests, so that I may take a bit of bread.
And they went after him and put him in flight, driving him to the town, and a number of his people was dead in the town of the town.
And now, go up by night, you and the people who are with you, and be false in the field.
In the past there was a man in Israel when a man came to God, saying, Come, let us go to the prophet; for he is a prophet, in time past was named a prophet.
And the Philistines came and came to David, and the man who gave birth to the body-covers was before him.
And as for the asses, which were lost for three days, be not troubled, because they are seen. For who will be all the best things of Israel? will they not be for you and for all your father's house?
And the heads of the Philistines were angry with him, and the chiefs of the Philistines said to him, Send the man back, and let him go back to his place where you have made him, and may not go down with us into the fight, and will not go down with us in war: and with which one man make himself an offering to his lord, is it not with the heads of the men?
There is some of envy and argument, but some for good, teaching the Christ.
And they took away the women and all who were in it, small and great: they did not put to death any one, but took them away and went away.
And the captains of Issachar were with him, and went after the steps of his face, looking on the steps of deceit, as one goes into a hole and a hole in a hole: and Reuben was fighting against himself, and there was a division of strong men.
Why do you go in flight at my offering and in my offering, which I have given orders in my living-place, and put your sons over me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And David had faith in David, saying, He has made himself unclean among his people Israel, and he will be my servant for ever.
And when she was still praying before the Lord,
For it is clear that our Lord has come out of Judah, even as Moses has said nothing against the priests.
For I am certain that this will come to my salvation, through your prayers and the full of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
So the Philistines were overcome, and they did not come into the land of Israel; and the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
Even the Zidonians, and the Amalekites, and those who have been cruel to you, and you cry to me, and I have kept you safe from their hands.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Truly you are like Zebah and Zalmunna, against whom you made sport of me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, so that we may give food to your men who are tired?
And they said, See, there is a feast of the Lord from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, going up from Beth-el to Shechem and on the south.
And it came to pass, when the people of Midian came to the tents of Sisera, and Shimei came out to meet him, and said to him, Come, and I will make clear to you the man whom you are looking for. And he came in to her, and the makers of Sisera were dead, and the men were dead in their houses.
I will not take away from before them any of the nations which Joshua went away when he came to death:
So let us take care of it, and let great care be given to us, so that one tribe may not be put to death from Israel.
And David took all the flocks and herds and gave them before the cattle, and said, This is David's property.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, with David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David went quickly from the face of Saul, and Saul and his men were driving David and his men after them.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family is the least of all the families of Benjamin, and why do you say this to me?
And when he had gone away from Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all these things came to pass on that day.
And now, see, the king is walking before you, and I am old and white: and, behold, my sons are with you, and I have gone before you from my earliest years up to this day.
But if you are without training, of which all of you are in need, you are responsible for yourselves and not sons.
So the children of Israel went wandering from there, by their families and family; and they went out from there, every man to his country.
But see how great this man was, to whom Abraham the father gave a tenth of the goods.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her, and said, Let him go and see what is the strength of his strength, and how we may overcome him, so that we may put him in order to put him under his hands; and every one of us will give you eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And Israel put their trust in their strength and their numbers, and put their army in the same place where they had been fighting before.
But if I say this to the child, See, the arrows are greater than you, go on your way; for the Lord will send you away.
See, the king is walking before you, and I am old and dark; and, behold, my sons are with you, and I have gone before you from my youth to this day.
Now these are the vessels of gold which the Philistines gave to the Lord: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, and Ashkelon, and one for Gath, one for Ekron.
And the wise men went with the responsible men of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them; and laughing took all his words before the Lord at Mizpah.
And the children of Ephraim were crying out, and they went over to the north, and said to them, Why did you go over and make war against the children of Ammon, and why did you not send us to go with you? We will send down your house over you with fire.
So let all your haters be cut off, O Lord, and let those who love him be as the light of the sun in its power: and the land had rest for forty years.
But you have turned away from me, and have gone after other gods, and I will not keep you safe.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, Why are you questioning my name, seeing that it is secret?
And from all these men were seven hundred men, trained men who were left, so that they had been put to flight with a stone at a hair, and they were not missing.
And they said, We will give them their desire. And they took a robe and put in it every man the rings of his goods.
And this is what we will do, if God lets us go.
And the Lord sent you on a way, saying, Go and put destruction on the sinners of the Amalekites and make war against them till they are wasted.
And the children of Naphtali did not put destruction on the people of Beth Shemesh, and Beth-horon; and he was living in the land of the Canaanites, and the people of the land were in the middle of the land.
Then Samuel took Saul and his young man and took them into the room and gave them a place at the head of those who were called, and they were about thirty men.
But Saul did not say anything that day, for he said, He is not clean; he is not clean.
When you go, you will come to a people safe, and the land is great: for God has given it into your hand, a place where there is no pleasure in the earth.
And he was very troubled for you all, because you had news that he was ill.
For you yourselves have knowledge that when he comes later to take his heritage, he was put to shame; for he had no place for a change of mind, searching for it with weeping.
And Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High, who came to Abraham from the death of the kings and gave him his blessing,
So the children of Israel were living in the land of the Canaanites and the Hittite and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivite and the Jebusite:
And he took two oxen, cutting them in pieces, and sent through all the land of Israel, saying, He who is not coming out after Saul and Samuel, will be done to his oxen. And the fear of the Lord will come on the people, and they will come out like one man.
And the Philistines were cruel to Saul and his sons; and the Philistines put to death Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
But even if we say in this way, dear friends, we are certain that we are better than you, and that we may be saved.
And the children of Israel came to Eglon for eighteen years.
But it is necessary for us to have trouble on the people of God, than to have the desire of sin for a time;
And when the king was seated on his seat by the wall, Jonathan got up, and Abner was seated by Saul's side, and the place was seen by David.
And Samuel said to the people, Come and let us go to Gilgal and make the kingdom new again.
And after some days he went back to take her, and went away to see the dead bodies of the lion: and there was a swarm of bees in the mouth of the lion and honey.
And the children of Dan went away: and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he went back to his house.
Now there was a young man of Beth-lehem, of the family of Judah; and he was a Levite, living there.
But if not, then let fire come out from Abimelech, and let the men of Shechem and the house of Millo be burned up, and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and get up against Abimelech.
And that every tongue may give praise to the Lord Jesus Christ in the glory of God the Father.
And he said, What is the word which he has given you? do not keep it secret from me: may God be on you, if you keep secret from me all the words which he gave you.
And when she had news of the noise of the weeping, he said, What is the noise of this trouble? The man went quickly, and came and gave birth.
And the man said to him, Let them make a perfume, as it is today, with the fat and take it to you as your soul desires. And he said to him, Truly you give it; and if not, I have got by strength.
And they said, In the morning we will come out to you, and you will do what is pleasing to you.
And now, my virgin daughter and woman, let me send them out, and let me take them out, and do to them whatever seems right to you; do not give this shame to this man.
But the thing was evil against Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord.
But the people would not give ear to the voice of Samuel, saying, No, but there will be a king over us.
And every priest is to keep his work every day of his work, and to make his offering a regular offering, which is not able to take away sin.
And the old man said, Peace be with you; only let all your desire be on me, but not in the street.
And the children of Ammon came together and put up their tents in Gilead; and the children of Israel came together and put up their tents in Mizpah.
For this is my prayer, and the Lord has given me my request which I made for him.
And the chiefs of the Philistines went out; and when they went out, David was better than all the servants of Saul, and his name was honoured.
So David got up in the morning, and gave the care of the flock to the keeper of the flock, and went away with a loud voice as Jesse had given him orders. And he came to the place of Miletus and the army, who went out to fight with a loud voice.
And the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand war-carriages and six thousand horsemen, as the sand on the sea; and they came up and put up their tents at Michmash, on the east side of Beth-aven.
And when they went up the direction of the town, they saw young women going out to get water, and said to them, Is there the prophet here?
And when Saul had news that David was seen, and the men who were with him, Saul was seated in Gibeah under the tree, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing by him.
And she gave birth to Sarah in the past, when she was old, having faith in her faith.
For this reason, when he came into the world, he said, Give offerings and offerings to you without desire, but a body which you made ready for me;
So Jehoash, the son of Joash, went with his position in his house.
And I will go out and take place by my father in the field where you are, and I will say to my father, If I see anything, I will say to you.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead had news of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And they sent for the children of Dan, turning to him, and said to him, What is the question with you?
And a young man of the men of Succoth took an account of him; and he gave orders to him the chiefs of Succoth and the responsible men, sixty men.
And the children of Israel went back from burning after the Philistines and took their tents.
For we have not here a town, but we are looking for the coming one.
Say no more so much, and let not pride come out of your mouth: for the Lord is the God of knowledge, and by his works are the weight of him.
But I have much more requesting to do this, so that I may go back quickly to you.
And he made himself a little, and a third sword, a cubit in length, and he put it on his robe on his right leg.
I am able to do all things through Christ who gives me strength.
And one of the servants said, See, I have seen a son of Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem, a man of music, a man of war, a man of a man of war, a man of great sense and of great sense, and the Lord is with him.
If then the Levites were in addition to the order of the priests, for the people had the law, and there was a priest in the order of Malchijah, and not to be named by the order of Aaron.
And the olive-tree said to them, Should I go away from my wealth with which they give honour to God and man, and go to be honoured over the trees?
And the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, saying, David has sent us to you to take you for his wife.
Then he sent for David, and said to him, As the Lord lives, truly you have been true, and I have pleasure to have you come with me in the war: for I have no wrong in you from the day you came to me till this day, but in the eyes of the rulers you are not good.
Now there was a man of Ramah who was near the hill country of Ephraim, and Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of the Maacathite,
And see, and see, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dance, then come out of the vine-gardens, and let every man take his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
Now there was a young man from Beth-lehem in Judah, from the tribe of Judah; and he was a Levite, and he was living there for a strange land.
And you are to make no agreement with the people of this land: you will worship their altars, but you have not kept my voice: why have you done this?
And Jehoash said to all who were against him, Will you make a decision against Baal? or will you give him salvation? let him be put to death while it is still in the morning: if he is a god, let him be fighting for himself, for he has broken down his altar.
And the children of Israel went up to Beth-el and said to God, Who will go up for us first to fight against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said, Judah first.
And he gave orders to him twice as much as he had, because he had love for Hananiah.
But some of them said, How could this man give salvation to us? And they gave him no account, but he was quiet.
And Beth-shean and its daughter-towns, and its daughter-towns, and the inhabitants of Dor, and Ibleam, and Ibleam with their unwalled places; and the Canaanites were living with them.
And you have come up against my father's house this day, and have put to death his sons, sixty men, on one stone, and made Abimelech, the son of his servant, king over Shechem, because he is your brother.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And all sorts of secret arts and all sorts of evil things were put on them till the time of training.
And the angel of the Lord put out the stick which was in his hand, and came against the flesh and the unleavened bread, and the fire went up out of the rock and burned up the flesh and the unleavened things, and the angel of the Lord went out from his eyes.
And Saul made an oath to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord lives, you will not be responsible for this thing.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites, because the people have kept the best of the sheep and the oxen, to make offerings to the Lord your God; and the rest we have put to destruction.
And Saul sent word to Jesse, saying, Let David come before me, because he has had grace in my eyes.
And when the boy was gone, David got up from a place to the south, and went down on his face to the earth, and put his face on his face three times: and they gave a kiss for one another, and was weeping one with another till David was greater.
And Saul's sons were Jonathan and Shimei and Malchi-shua, the name of his two daughters, the name of Michal the first, and the name of the younger woman.
And they put the ark of the Lord on the cart, and the spices, and the images of gold, and the images of their meal.
And when he saw that he was an angel of the Lord, he said, Alas, Lord God: for I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face.
And God gave ear to the voice of a man, and the angel of God came again to the woman, and she was seated in a field, and her husband was not with her.
For who will give ear to you in this matter? but as his part goes down to the fight, so will his part be like the rest of the vessels: they are to be part equally.
And Judah took Gaza with its limit, and Ashkelon with its outskirts, and Ekron with its outskirts;
And Nahash, the Ammonite, said to them, This is my agreement with you, and I will take away your eyes to you, and put it on all Israel.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they overcame the Canaanites who were living in the town, and they put it to destruction: and the name of the town was called Hormah.
And he said, Why does my lord go after his servant? what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
Be quiet with me, do not be afraid; for he who is looking for my life is looking for your life: for with me you will be safe.
And the king said to her, Have no fear. And the woman said to Saul, I see a god coming up from the earth.
And Saul said, Come near here, all you chiefs of the people, and see and see that this sin has been this day.
And he said, Why does my lord go after his servant? what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And when the men of Israel who were on this side of the valley saw that the men of Israel had gone away, and Saul and his sons were dead, they left the towns and went in flight; and the Philistines came and were living in them.
And the woman gave birth to a son, and gave him the name of the child, and the child became a blessing, and the Lord gave him his blessing.
If by any means I may come to life again to the coming from the dead.
And the words which David had said were hearing before Saul, and he sent for him.
The Lord will judge between me and you, and the Lord will take care of you; but my hand will not be on you.
So that you are not feeble, but those who are guided by faith, who have faith and faith in faith.
And Asher did not send out the people of Shechem, or the people of Zidon, or of the outskirts of Achzib, or of Achzib, or of Debir, or of Rehob, or of Rehob.
And in the morning her master got up, opening the doors of the house, and went out to go on his journey; and, behold, his wife was falling at the door of the house with her hand on the doorstep.
And he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down from the hill-country with him.
And all the land from the Arnon to the west, and from the waste land to the Jordan.
And he said to Samuel, Go to bed, and it will be, if he will come to you, that you may say, May the Lord give you word, for your servant is hearing. And Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And he went up to the bands of Israel, and said to them, Why have you come out made ready to fight? am not I a Philistine, and you, Saul's servants? send out a man of you, and let him come down, and let him go down to his hands.
And they said, O Lord, the God of Israel, why has this come to pass in Israel, that there may be one tribe in Israel?
For it was he who has all things, and through whom are all things, giving glory to the glory of God, to make the God of his salvation complete through the troubles.
And the people had pity on them for Benjamin, because the Lord had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And in the morning Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David and a little child with him.
For God made an oath to Abraham, because he had no greater oath by himself,
And God did so that night; for it was dry on the wool, and there was dew on all the earth.
And the children of Ephraim said to him, What is this that you say to do, that you did not give us a request when you went to fight against Midian? and they were cruel and ready to get violent.
And it was said to the captains of Gath, The son of Jonathan has come in here. And they went and put waiting for him all night in the town, and keep quiet all the night, saying, Until the light of the morning we have put him to death.
And he said to her, Go. And he sent her away for two months; and when she had gone with her neighbours and with her neighbours, she was weeping for her virgin in the mountains.
So now, take your place, that I may make a decision against you before the Lord, for all the mercy of the Lord which he has given you and your fathers:
And the glory of Israel will not be broken, and the glory of Israel will not be changed: for he is not a man of grief.
But we are not of those who go back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the salvation of the soul.
And Samuel took a fat lamb and gave it to the Lord for a burned offering; and Samuel was crying out to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord gave him an answer.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil and put oil on him in the middle of his brothers; and the Spirit of the Lord came on David from that day forward. And Samuel got up and went to Ramah.
And David said to the king, If I have found grace in your eyes, let them give me a place in one of the towns in the land, so that I may be there: why should your servant be living in the king's town with you?
Take back now the sin of your servant, for the Lord will certainly make my lord a safe place, because my lord is fighting against the Lord, and evil will not be seen in you all your days.
And Saul's servants said to him, See now, an evil spirit has come from God.
By my wrath they will not go into my rest.
And his faith to him who made him, as Moses in all his house,
And he said to them, Are you not the men who hated me, and send me out of my father's house, and have you come to me with the force?
Up to us, and let us go up against them: for we have seen the land, and see that it is good. Do you keep still still? do not be slow to go in to take the land.
So that my chains might be made clear in Christ's house and in all the rest,
And he said to his young man, Go, get out my arrows; and as the boy was running, he sent an arrow on him.
The thorns say to the trees, If you put on me king over you, come and get safe in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and let the cedars of Lebanon be burned.
And when the ark of the agreement of the Lord came into the tent-circle, all Israel gave a loud cry, and the earth was increased.
Have no memory of those in chains, as having been chained with them, as you were in the body.
So that by two tables there is no use for God to be false, so that we might have a strong comfort, who have gone in flight to take the hope which is waiting for us.
And all those who were in trouble, and were crushed by debt, and had a desire of grief to him; and he became their ruler, and there were with him four hundred men.
And when Israel was strong, they put the Canaanites to forced taxes and did not send them out.
And they sent representatives to Abimelech, saying, See, the son of Obed, with his brothers, has come to Shechem with his brothers.
And it was made clear to Saul, saying, See, David in Ramah.
And all the people sent and said, To the children of Benjamin, at the rock of Rimmon, and give them news of peace.
Have I ever begun to get directions from God? be it far from me; do not let the king take care of his servant or the house of my father: for your servant has knowledge of all this, less or more.
And on the seventh day before the sun came down, they said to him, What is better than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said to them, If you had not been ploughing with my cow, you had not seen my knowledge.
Do not let your guests be turned away from you, because of this false man who had no sense.
And as your life has been long by this day in my eyes, so let my life be made long in the eyes of the Lord, and let him give me salvation from all trouble.
This day the Lord will put you in my hand, and I will send punishment on you and take away your head from you, and let the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines be given this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth, and to the beasts of the earth; and all the earth will be certain that God is for Israel.
So that you may not be a hater of the way, but let them be guided by the example of those who have faith and faith in your faith.
And he put them in flight from Aroer till they came to the land of Minnith, in the twenty towns, and to Abel, a great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were overcome before the children of Israel.
And Abimelech went after him, and he went in flight before him; and a great number came to the doorway of the doorway.
But now he has got more more than a noble work, so much as a part of the agreement which is in the right part of the faith.
But when you saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, came against you, you said to me, No, but a king will rule over us; when the Lord your God was your king.
And when Saul had news that David had gone in flight to Gath, he was waiting for him no more.
And Manasseh did not send out the people of Beth-shean and her towns, and the towns of Taanach and the towns of Dor and its daughter-towns, or the people of Ibleam and its towns, or the people of Megiddo and its towns; but the Canaanites were living in that land.
So David enquired of the Lord, saying, Am I to go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go and put an end to the Philistines and to the rest of Keilah.
And the men of Israel and Judah got up and went after the Philistines, and went after the Philistines as far as the valley, and as far as Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines went down on the road to Gath, and as far as Ekron.
And when he came, he made a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he went before them.
And Isaac gave blessing to Jacob and Esau about all these things.
And faith is of things waiting for a certain hope, which is not seen by it.
And the women said one to another as they were, and said, Saul has put to death his thousands, and David has ten thousands.
And Samuel was dead; and all Israel had a grief for him, and they put him in the earth in Ramah, in his town. And Saul had put away the readers of spirits and the readers of the Chaldaeans out of the land.
And when he came to the Jordan, he and the three hundred men who were with him were feeble and went after them.
And the Lord said to him, Truly I will be with you, and you will be to the Midianites as one man.
And Saul sent representatives to take care of David; and when they saw the words of the prophets, Samuel and Samuel were the head over them, and the Spirit of God came on Saul's servants, and they were prophets.
But the men would not give ear to him; so the man took his wife, and took her out to them, and they had knowledge of her and made it hard for her all night till the morning; and when the time came to spring, they let her go.
For after whom is the king of Israel come out? and after whom are you going after? after a dead dog after him,
And the Philistines were full of fear, for they said, God has come into the tent-circle. And they said, Sorrow for us! for this has not been done before.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did what was right in his eyes.
And Abimelech was fighting against the town all that day; and he took the town and put to death the people who were in it: and he overcame the town and put salt in the field.
And the old man said, Peace be to you; let all your desire come to me; only go not in the street.
And Jacob had faith in Jacob; and when he was dead, he gave blessing to the sons of Joseph, and gave worship to him, resting on the top of his rod.
And David said to Saul, Who am I, or what is my life, or my father's family, that I may be a son in the law of the king?
Is it not the grain of grain on this day? I will send out to the Lord, that he may send thunder and rain; and you will see and see that your evil-doing is great, which you have done in the eyes of the Lord, to make a king a king.
Then Saul went down with his face to the earth, and he was greatly troubled by the words of Samuel, and there was no longer strength in him, for he had not had food all day and night.
And again he will give up a certain day in David, saying, This is the day for a long time; this is what has been said before: today, if you will give ear to his voice, do not be hard-hearted.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and put it in the house of Dagon, and put it in the house of Dagon.
And after him, there was a division of the seed of Beth-lehem, judging Israel.
And Asher did not send out the people who were living in it, and the people of Zidon: Jazer and Achzib, Debir and Rehob,
And God did that night, as he had said, and it was dry on the wool, and there was dew on all the earth.
And they took away the prisoners who were in it, small and great; and they had not put any man to death, but had taken them with them and went on their way.
For the fruit of the rain which is frequently on it and makes use of it is for profit; for it is the planting of the field, the blessing of God.
And he was still in the body of his father when he came to him.
How much more, when you see that he has been cut off by the power of the Son of God, and has given the blood of the agreement unclean by which he was made holy, and has given an offering before the Spirit of grace?
For this reason you are to make images of your goods and the images of your disgusting things, which waste the land; and you will give glory to the God of Israel, if he will make his hand clear to you and your gods and your land.
And Jonathan went up on his hands, and on his feet, and his arms after him; and they went down before Jonathan, and put them to death after him.
And he said to him, See now, there is in this town a man of God, and he is a man of honour, and all that he says is true. Now let us go there; may he be able to let us go.
And on the eighth day there was circumcision, of the children of Israel, and of the children of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew.
And Saul said, God do so and more; for you will certainly be put to death, Jonathan.
So David and Abishai came to the army by night, and Saul was sleeping in the tents with his spear on his head, and Abner and the army were round about him.
And when you have been waiting for three days, go down quickly, and come to the place where you have kept yourself in secret, and be resting by the stone of Ephraim.
And now, make an oath to me by the Lord, you will not take away my seed after me, or take my name from my father's house.
So the five men went away and came to the town of Laish, and saw the people who were there, and they were living in the way of the Zidonians, quiet and safe: for there was no one in the land, and had authority over them, and they were far from the Zidonians, and had no dealings with any other.
That he might have knowledge of him, and the power of his power, and the blessing of his pain, as his death;
And he said to them, I would have a desire for you, that you would give me all the rings of his food: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
Let not my lord be a man of evil, even the sinner, for as his name is, so that he may be his name, and the foolish man is his name; but I have not seen the young men of my lord whom you sent.
And he got up and said to the people of Israel, Why have you come out to put your war in position? am I not a Philistine, and you servants of Saul? take a man for you, and let him come down to me.
So her husband went out, and he went after her to say words to her, to get her back, and took with him his servant and a couple of asses, and took him to her father's house. And the father of the young woman saw him and was glad to see him.
And the watchmen saw a man coming out of the town and said to him, Show us the door of the town, and let us have mercy on you.
And he went back again from the waste places at Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word to you, O king. And he said, Keep quiet; and all who were waiting by him went out from him.
To the chief of the chief, and to the meeting of the first ones who are recorded in heaven, to God the judge of all, to the spirits of the upright,
And was he angry with him for forty years? Was it not with those who did evil, whose bodies were dead in the waste land?
And the dead man was dead and was put to death at Beth-lehem.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw that the people were turned away, and they went on to death one another.
For Christ has not come into a holy place made by hands, but a copy of the true one, but in heaven, to come before God for us.
So David overcame the Philistines with a sling and a stone, and overcame the Philistines and put him to death; and there was no sword in the hand of David.
And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner was the father of Salmon,
They have gone out into the fields, wasting the vine-gardens, crushing the grapes, and making melody and dancing in the house of their god; and they put a curse on Abimelech in their feasts.
And he said to them, They were my brothers, the children of my mother: as the Lord lives, I would not put you to death.
For this is the agreement which I will make to the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws in their hearts, and in their hearts I will put them in writing; and I will be their God, and they will be my people.
And he said to them, Why are you doing such things? for I have ears of your evil designs from all this people.
For if the first agreement had been without leaven, then no place was made for a second time.
And the chiefs of the Philistines took them together, to make a great offering to Dagon their god, and to be glad: for they said, Our god has given our hater over our haters into our hands.
And Hananiah, answering, said, No, my lord: I have been in pain in the spirit of wine and of wine and of strong drink, and I have put my soul before the Lord.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel were weeping for him, and they put him to death in Ramah; and Saul had put away all the scribes and wonder-workers out of the land.
But there is no faith which is pleasing to him: for he who comes to God will have faith that he is, and that he is a reward to those who are waiting for him.
And Saul said to Jonathan, his son, and to all his servants, to put David to death; but Jonathan, Saul's son, was greatly pleased with David.
You have said to me today that you have done well with me, how the Lord has given me into your hand, but you have not put me to death.
And they said to the Lord, Has the man come here? And the Lord said, See, he has been kept secret by the vessels.
And when they had gone a little way, they went into the house of the young man, the Levite, who was in the house of Michmas; and they gave him a request of peace.
And she said to Shammah, These are the things you have made sport of me and have given me a word of deceit: give me what you may be put to shame. And he said to her, If you are to make the hair of my head with the hair of my head,
And the young men of David came and gave birth to the words of the sinner to the sinner, and stopped.
And the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hands of Israel, and they overcame them: so Israel took all the land of the Amorites and the people of that country.
And they were a wall to us, night and night; and all the days we were with them keeping the sheep.
And David came to Saul and took his place before him; and he was dear love for him, and he became his arms.
And all the men of Benjamin were numbered, and all these were men of war.
Do not make a agreement with the people of this land, but put down their altars, and do not give ear to my voice: why have you done this?
And David went to the head of the Philistines, took his sword, and took it out of its place, and put him to death, cutting off his head with it; and the Philistines saw that their dead men were in flight.
For you sent to Thessalonica once and again for my use.
But you are not to take away your mercy from my house for ever, when the Lord takes away the haters of David from the face of the earth.
And the chiefs of the Philistines went by hundreds, and thousands of thousands; but David and his men went on with him.
And because he has no oath for his oath,
And when they came to the land of Suph, Saul said to the servant who was with him, Come, let us go back, lest my father keep the asses and care for us.
And the ark of the Lord was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
For her trouble has made her great, so that she may be troubled, for the Lord has shut her up.
Then Samuel gave orders to the people, and put it in a book, and put it before the Lord; and all the people went to his house.
And the three divisions sounded the horns, and the vessels were broken in pieces, and the lights were fixed in their left hands, and the horns were sounding in their right hand, crying out, The sword of the Lord and of Israel.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See, I am doing a thing in Israel, so that the two ears of every one who has ears of hearing will be sad.
And Samuel was waiting for the Lord, a young robe made of linen.
And the peace of God, which is greater than any sense, will keep your hearts and thoughts through Christ Jesus.
And Samuel got up and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the men who were present with him about six hundred men.
And he sent the news, and said, Israel has gone in flight before the Philistines, and there has been a great slaughter among the people, and your two sons, chief, and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And a man came to Saul, saying, Come quickly and come; for the Philistines have overcome the land.
For he had a desire for you all, and was troubled because you had news that he was ill.
And the Lord let loose a great tooth in the mouth of the ass, and water came out of it; and when he had drink them, he gave up his spirit and gave up his strength. So the name of that place was named, The Well of him which was named by his bone, till this day.
And the spirit of the Lord was on Saul, and he was seated in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing with his hand.
By the two table things which have been made hard for God, so that we might have a strong comfort, who have gone in flight to take care of the hope which is made before us.
Now at the time when Michal, Saul's daughter, had been given to David, she gave birth to the wife of Bath-lah.
Whatever is coming out of the vine does not take food, and wine and strong drink she may not drink, or any unclean thing she may have food; all that I have given her is to be seen.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he who said, Will Saul rule over us? send the men and we will put them to death.
And the violent men of war came and put their blood on Abimelech their brother, and put them to death, and on the men of Shechem, who had made his hands put to death his brothers.
But I am not to keep my prayer from the Lord, but I will make clear to you the good and the right.
And they took away the women who were in it, from the youngest to the first; they did not put any man to death, but took them away and went on their way.
So they went over and went on; and the sun went on them at Gibeah, which is for Benjamin.
And the house of Joseph sent to search out Beth-el: now the name of the town was at Luz.
And laughing went away from the face of his brothers, and he was living in the land of Samaria; and the law of the Lord was in the middle of Japhlet and went with him.
And for twenty years and for three years he was put to death; and he went to death and was put to death in the earth.
And that night the Lord said to him, Take your father's ox, the second seven years old, and put down the altar of Baal which your father has, and cut down the image which is by it.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months; and she went with her friends, and she was weeping for her virgin on the mountains.
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is marked for men in connection with God, to make offerings and offerings for sin:
For this is the agreement which I will give to the children of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws in their hearts, and I will put them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be my people.
For this is my prayer for this child, and the Lord has given me my request.
And God gave orders for signs and wonders, and great powers, and giving the distribution of the Holy Spirit, as his will.
And the king said, Make clear to you whose son the Aramaeans are.
Do not let the work of ourselves be turned away, as a custom of some another, but to give comfort to them, and so much as you see the day coming near.
And the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hands of Israel, and they overcame them; and Israel took all the land of the Amorites in the land.
And Samuel said to all the people, See the man whom the Lord has chosen, that there is no one like him among all the people? And all the people gave a loud cry, saying, God gives the king salvation.
For we have faith in Christ, if we keep the first of our faith in the end.
But in addition to these things, there is a record of the sins of the Lord.
And Samuel said to him, The Lord has taken away the kingdom of Israel from you today, and has given it to your neighbour, who is better than you.
For everyone who takes of milk is without experience of the word of righteousness, because he is a child.
And all the land of the Amorites from the Arnon, and as far as Jazer, and from the waste land and the Jordan.
If by any means I may be able to come to life from the dead.
And the women gave songs, saying, I Saul put to death his thousands, and David, his ten thousands.
And when she had sent him hard with her words, she made request to him that his soul was troubled.
Now on the third day, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites came to the south, and at Ziklag, who came to Ziklag and burned it with fire;
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David go before me, for he has seen grace in my eyes.
For God is not evil to keep your work, and the work of the love which you have given to his name, to do the work of the saints and the work.
And when he saw her, he took his robes, and said, Alas, my daughter! for you have taken me very low, and you are one of those who have trouble on me; for I have given my mouth to the Lord, and I am not able to go back.
And after him, the town of Elon, the son of Heth, came to the decision of Israel, and he judged Israel for ten years.
In addition to the purpose of God, with signs and wonders and wonders, and the giving of the Holy Spirit by his will?
For then the children are cut off in flesh and blood; and he himself himself took of the same, so that through death he might send to nothing the power of death, which is, the Evil One.
Then I took my wife, cutting her in pieces, and sent her through all the land of Israel, because they had done an evil thing in Israel.
Then I said, See, I come; in a book of the book it is recorded about me, to do, O God, to your will.
The river of the river was driving them away, the river of old, the river of the river.
And when the cloud went up out of the town in a pillar of smoke, the sons of Benjamin looked on them, and saw that the whole town went up to heaven.
And Saul said, Take here all the horns of the people, and see that this sin has come to the day.
Go down before me to Gilgal; and see, I am coming down to you, to give offerings and peace-offerings to your peace-offerings: seven days you will be waiting for seven days till I come to you and give you what you are to do.
Who is the glory of his glory, and the image of his wealth, and who takes all things by the word of his power, making payment for sins, seated on the right hand of the glory on high.
Then the woman came out at dawn, and went down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light.
And that night the Lord said to him, Take your father's ox, the second seven years old, and put down the altar of Baal which your father has, and cut down the Asherah, which is by it.
This is the account of the things which we say: We have such a high priest, seated on the right hand of the glory of heaven.
And he made an ephod out of it, and put it in the town of Ophrah; and all Israel took the harlot with it, and it became a net for the king and his house.
And he took the young goat and the grain offering, and gave it to the Lord on the rock; and he was honoured, and his wife was seen.
And make prayer for us, for we are certain that we have a good heart in our hearts, and have a desire to be in every way.
And when the young man came to the place where Jonathan had sent in flight, Jonathan said to the child, Is not the arrow on your side?
So that the men of Benjamin were about twenty-five thousand men who took the sword: all these were men of war.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the eyes of the Lord; and the Lord made it hard for Eglon, for they had done evil in the eyes of the Lord.
And Jonathan gave his arms to the young man whom he had, and said to him, Go into the town.
And the Lord was with Judah, and he took the hill-country, but they were not able to send out the people of the Arabah because they had breastplates of iron.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the wise men, Because Israel took my land in his coming out of Egypt, from the Arnon, and to the Jabbok, and to the Jordan; and now, give them back in peace.
If a man goes after you to go after you, and to search for your life, let the life of my lord be shut up in the breast of the living with the Lord your God: but as for the life of your hater, he will put it to flight from the mouth of the sling.
The Zidonians and the Amalekites and the land of Canaan are cruel to you, and you cry to me, and I have given you out of their hands.
And David went up from there, living in the strong place of En-gedi.
Then the men of the town said to Joash, Take your son, that he may be put to death, because he has broken down the altar of Baal, and have cut down the Asherah, which was by it.
And they gave him seventy silver coins from the house of Baal, and Abimelech went with them; they were foolish and feeble, and they went after him.
And Samuel came no more to see Saul till the day of his death: but Samuel was sorrowing for Saul, and the Lord changed his mind that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And Jesse gave his name Abinadab, and made him go before Samuel. And he said, This is not the Lord's selection.
So that you may be without blame and without cause, O children of God, in the middle of a generation whose hearts are twisted and whose hearts are twisted, among whom you are seen as the lights of the earth.
For it is impossible for the blood of the ox and of the goats.
And Zebulun did not take away the people of the land, or the people of Sela; but the Canaanites were living among them, and became forced to work.
By faith they went over the Red Sea as if on dry land; and the Egyptians were overcome by their designs.
Go after peace with all men, and be holy, and no man will see the Lord.
But the people took part of the goods, sheep and oxen, and the best part of the devoted things, to make offerings to the Lord your God in Gilgal.
And if your father is a man of trouble for me, then say, Let me go to Beth-lehem, his town; for there is a year offering for all the house.
And Saul was very angry, and the saying was evil for him; and he said, They have had knowledge of David's ten thousands, and to me they have made selection of thousands; and what will he have more than the kingdom?
And they sent the ark of God to Ekron, and the ark of God came to Ekron, saying, They have taken the ark of the God of Israel to us, to put us to death and to our people.
And Saul said to David, See, my older daughter Michal, whom she has given to you for a wife, be to me for a son of war and fight against the Lord. And Saul said, Let not my hands be on him, but let the Philistines be on him.
Only that the children of Israel might have knowledge of them, to give them orders for war, at least those who had knowledge of it before.
The chief priest was named a priest, after the order of Malchijah.
And every man in trouble, and every man who had a creditor, and every bitter man came to him, and he became their captain; and there were about four hundred men with him.
And he said, These are my brothers, the children of my mother: the Lord is living, if you had kept them safe, I had not put you to death.
For your blessing from the first day till now.
And he said to them, I will not have authority over you, and my son will not rule over you, but the Lord will rule over you.
And said, I will send you up out of Egypt, and take you into the land which I made an oath to your fathers, and say, I have not broken my agreement with you for ever; and you make no agreement with the people of this land: you have broken down their altars and have not given ear to my voice.
And the Tent and all the vessels of the holy place with blood in like manner of worship,
And he said to them, What have I done with you? is not the grapes of Ephraim's grapes better than the grapes of Abiezer?
And all the men of Israel went up out of their place, and put themselves in position at Baal Tamar: and the people of Israel came out of their places, out of the outskirts of Gibeah.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who came not up with the church to the Lord? because they had made a great oath against him that came not up to the Lord to Mizpah, saying, He will certainly be put to death.
Then the father of Saul said, Give me my prayer, what Samuel said to you.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, Send him up to me in the bed, so that I may put him to death.
But the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and he blew the horn, and Abiezer was joined after him.
And when the young man came to the place where Jonathan had sent in flight, Jonathan said to the child, Is not the arrow on your side?
And so that he may give himself to himself a long time, as the high priest goes into the holy place of the holy place by year with blood,
And he said to them, I will not have rule over you, and my son will not rule over you: the Lord will rule over you.
And there was a man named selection of Zebulun and Naphtali: and there went up with him ten thousand men, and she went up with him.
And the sons of Kir-heres were the father of a loose woman, and Gilead was the father of Japhlet.
And Saul put his robe on David with his robe, and put a head-dress of brass on his head, and put on him a robe.
But the hair of his head was to come up till he was cut off.
Now the child Samuel was the first of the Lord before the first, and the word of the Lord was dear in those days, and there was no clear vision.
And the responsible men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Give us seven days' rest, so that we may send representatives to all the country of Israel; and then, if there is no one to keep us safe, we will come out to you.
And they went away from there to go to the night at Gibeah; and he went in and took his seat in a wide place of the town, and there was no man in the house to keep the night.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house: but the child was waiting before the Lord before the face of Heli the priest.
And she came down at his feet and said, My lord, on me is the sin, and let your servant give ear to me, and give ear to the words of your servant.
And when the Lord has done all the good things he has said about you, and has made you ruler over Israel,
And he went with his army, attacking the town with his army, while he went after the attackers who were wandering in the field.
My brothers, I am not writing myself still to have connection with myself: but one thing I do, that I may keep back the things which are in the past, and make clear to the things which are before,
And he took a yoke of oxen, cutting them in pieces, and sent them through all the country of Israel, saying, Whoever does not come after Saul and Samuel will be done to his oxen. And the fear of the Lord came on the people, and they came out like one man.
In addition to the number of the chiefs of the Philistines, you are to make five gold, five gold, and five gold, for the same disease has been on you all, and on your heads: and you are to make the image of your flesh, and the form of the mouse, and give glory to the God of Israel: to see if he will take away his hands from you and from your gods and from your land.
And so it was, so that they were put to death on the sides of the earth, and there was no rest of their men; and they went down and went down on the east side of the town.
And after whom will the king of Israel come out? and after whom will you go after? after a dead dog after him, after a dead dog.
And Saul's servants said these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it possible for you a light to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, and not a man?
Then he sent out to the young man his armor, and said to him, Take your sword and put me to death, that they may not say of me, A woman put him to death. And his young man put him in flight, and he was dead.
And Jonathan overcame the band of the Philistines who were in Geba; and the Philistines had news of it. And Saul blew the horn through all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews give ear.
And Samuel said to the people, It is the Lord who made Moses and Aaron, and who took your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And when he went up, he went up by the way of those who were living in tents on the east side of the east, and took care of the army; for the army was safe.
This day you have come up against my father's house, and have put to death his sons, seventy men, on one stone, and Abimelech, the son of his servant, king over Shechem, because he is your brother.
We have food and grain for the asses, and bread and wine for the use of my soul, and of your woman-servant, and of the servant who is with me; we have no desire for anything but a resting-place.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have done wrong, for I have gone over the orders of the Lord and your words; for I have done the fear of the people, and I will give attention to their voice.
For those who say such things make clear clearly to search for a country.
And the side of the Amorites went out from the direction of the slope of Akrabbim, from the direction of the slope of the slope of the slope of the slope of the road to the south;
So the children of Israel gave to Eglon the king of Moab for eighteen years.
And he got up and said to the people of Israel, Why have you come out to put your war in position? am I not a Philistine, and you servants of Saul? take a man for you, and let him come down to me.
Let our lord, now, give orders to your servants, who are before you, to search for a man who is a lover of music on the harp: and when the evil spirit of God is on you, he will make a sound with his hand, and you will be well.
And he said, Israel has gone in flight before the Philistines, and there has been a great slaughter among the people; and your two sons, the chief of the Levites, and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God has been taken.
And the weight of the fighting was turned on Saul; and the archers overtook him, and he was wounded by the archers.
And the servants of Manasseh said to him, Is not this King David of the land? has they not made sport of one another among him, saying, Saul has put to death his thousands, and David, his ten thousands?
But the children of Benjamin did not send out the Jebusites who were living in Jerusalem; and the Jebusites were living among the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
And they gave to Caleb, Hebron, as Moses had said; and he put out the three sons of Anak from there.
And Jonathan said good things to Saul, his father, and said to him, Do not sin, O king, against your servant David, because he has done wrong against you, and his works are very good for you.
Now on the second day an evil spirit from God came on Saul, and he was talking in the middle of the house; but David was with his hand, as on other days, and the spear was in Saul's hand.
I have strength for all things in him who gives me power.
And his father and his mother said to him, Is there not a woman among your brothers or of all my people, that you go to take a wife of the Philistines? And the son said to his father, Get her for me, for she is pleasing to me.
And when the Lord gave them judges, the Lord was with the judge, and gave them out of the hand of their haters all the days of the judge: for it was turned to the Lord because of their cries, because of their cries, and made them angry.
See, the days are coming, and I will cut off your arm and the arms of your father, so that there is no longer in your house.
Then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me go through your land: but the king of Edom did not give ear. So he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel stayed in Kadesh.
If you will fear the Lord, and serve him, and keep his voice, and do not go against the orders of the Lord, then you and the king who is king over you will go after the Lord your God:
But the things which have been given to me, I have the thought for Christ.
Now when these things were done, the priests went all the time into the first House, doing the work of God.
And Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went with his brothers and went to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their faith in him.
So Saul and his three sons and his arms and all his men were that same day.
But you will not take away your mercy from my house for ever: no, not when the Lord has cut off the haters of David from the face of the earth.
And David said to him, Have you come down to this company? And he said, Give me word by God, that you will not put me to death or give me up into my master's hands, and I will send you down to this band.
And Judah went against the Canaanites living in Hebron ( the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba); and they overcame Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai and Talmai.
And David went over to the other side, and took his place on the top of the hill, and there was a division between them.
And he said to her, If I will be chained with a new cords, I will be feeble and like other men.
So that we may give praise to God for ever and ever, giving praise to his name.
And the man of the dead said to the servants of David, Who is David, and what is the son of Jesse? are there a number of days for a long time?
And they said, Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon;
And now this present which your servant has given to my lord, let it be given to the young men who go after my lord.
And the vine said to them, Am I not to give up my wine to make the gods glad, and to go on walking on the trees?
But we see Jesus, who was a little lower than the angels, because of the troubles of death, crowned with glory and glory, so that through the grace of God he might be put to death for all.
And his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, took care of him, and he stayed with him for three days: so they took food and drink and put their rest in the night.
And he said to them, Let me now put a riddle to you, if you are able to make it clear to me in the seven days of the feast, and I will give you thirty linen robes and thirty changes of clothing;
And the children of Israel were crying to the Lord, for he had nine hundred war-carriages of iron, and he made the children of Israel hard for twenty years.
And in nothing you are troubled by those who are against them: for they are a cause of destruction to them, but to you of salvation and this from God.
And he was not conscious of all things; for Jonathan and David had knowledge of the thing.
And you will not only the Lord's mercy, so that I may not be put to death.
So the people took food in their hands and their horns; and he sent all the men of Israel to his tents, but they took away the three hundred men; and the tents of Midian were under him in the valley.
And when he was put to rest till the middle of the middle of the night, he got up in the middle of the night and took the doors of the town and the two pillars, pulling them up, and put them on his shoulders, and took them up to the top of the mountain which is before Hebron.
And after the sense of wisdom, sent representatives to the king of the children of Ammon.
And some of the sons of Levi, who have the orders of the priest, have given orders to take the tenth part of the people by the law of their brothers, even though they have come from Abraham:
And she made him go up with her, when she had taken him, with three oxen and an ephah of meal and a bottle of wine, and she took him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh, and the child was only a child.
By faith he who was named Abraham went out into a place where he was to get a heritage: and he went out without knowledge where he went.
For this cause I was angry with this generation, and said, They are ever wandering in heart, and they have no knowledge of my ways;
And he will take a certain day, and this day will be a time to say in David a long time, after a long time, even as it has been said before: Today if you will give ear to his voice, not your hearts.
And they saw a secret place in the valley, and they were fighting against him; and they overcame the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
And he will give them to him for captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and he will give orders to the plough, and to take his grain, and to get his instruments of war and the instruments of his war-carriages.
And she said, No, my lord, I am a woman of sorrow: I have no drink of wine or strong drink, but have put out my soul before the Lord.
And they put him in the land of his heritage in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of Mount Hor.
But Saul and the people were cruel to them, and the best sheep, and the best sheep, and the oxen, and the sheep, and all that was good, and all that was good, and they were not able to put them to destruction: but every thing which was not turned away, and they were crushed completely.
See, you are all the children of Israel; give a word to you and say,
And the children of Israel went up to weeping before the Lord till even, questioning the Lord, saying, Will I go up to fight against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the Lord said, Go up against him.
And when he had news of the dream and its sense, he gave worship, and he went back to the tents of Israel and said, Up, for the Lord has given you the army of Midian.
And Saul gave birth to his daughter Michal, the wife of David, to the fifth of the grain-cutting.
And there was a gold altar for burning perfumes, and the ark of the agreement was plated with gold, in which was a gold vessel with the manna; and Aaron's rod and the rod of the agreement;
But if you are not able to make it clear to me, you will give me thirty curtains and thirty changes of clothing. And they said to him, Give your sense, that we may give ear to it.
And when Abigail saw David, she quickly got off the ass and put his face before David on her face, and went on his face to the earth.
And Samuel said, How may I go? if he has news of it, he will put me to death. And the Lord said, Take a young cow with you, and say, I have come to give an offering to the Lord.
Then Saul said to the people who were with him, Take a number, and see who is gone from us: and when they were numbered, Jonathan and his war-men were not there.
And a certain man from the army said to him, Your father made the people take an oath, saying, Cursed is the man who takes food today, so that the people are feeble.
By the faith of the faith which has been seen by the faith of God, by the fear of God, having been moved with fear, made a ship for the salvation of his house, when he made the world free and the heritage of righteousness by faith.
And the children of Benjamin came together from the towns to Gibeah, to go out to fight with the children of Israel.
But the Amorites were living in the hill-country of Aijalon, in the field of Achzib; and the hand of the house of Joseph overcame them, so that they became forced to work.
And that I might be seen in him, not having my righteousness, which is based on the law, but that which is by faith of Christ, the righteousness of God through faith,
Why do you keep me in my offering and in my offering, which I have given orders in my living-place, and give honour to your sons over me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And he took the three hundred men into three bands; and he put the horns and all sorts of vessels in all the vessels, with burning lights inside the vessels.
And Saul and the men of Israel came together, and they put up their tents in the valley of Siddim, and put their position in position against the Philistines.
For nothing did the law without effect, and the cause of a better hope which we came near to God.
For his glory is greater than Moses, because he who made the house is greater than the house.
For a man's oath is greater than himself, and the oath for a sign is the end of them.
For you will have a son, and you will have a son, and no razor will touch his head: for the son of God is a man of God from birth, and he will take Israel out of the hands of the Philistines.
And now, let my lord the king give ear to the words of his servant: if the Lord has made you come against me, let him take a present; and if the sons of men are cursed before the Lord, because they have sent me out today from being in the heritage of the Lord, saying, Go to other gods.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, Take the flesh and the unleavened bread and put them on the rock, and put out the soup on it; and when he had done so,
And they got up in the morning and gave worship before the Lord; and they came back and came to their house at Ramah; and Elkanah was the first of the wife of Mary his wife, and the Lord was in mind of her.
The men of Gibeah came up against me, circling the house at night: they were attempting to put me to death, and they put shame on my wife, and she was dead.
And the king of heaven said, Give me the king of Amalek, the king of Amalek; and he has made his face full of fat, shaking with fear. And he said, Is not this a bitter death?
And when David had said these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and was crying.
And at the same day he gave him up to Ziklag, and at Ziklag was the kings of Judah till this day.
And the king said to the armed men, Come and put to death the priests of the Lord, because their hand is with David, and because they had knowledge that he was running away, and did not make it clear to me. But the servants of the king would not put out their hands on the priests of the Lord.
And he said to David, I am certain that you are good in my eyes, as an angel of God: but the chiefs of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us to the fight.
And the hand of the children of Israel made hard harder and hard for Jabin, king of Canaan, till they came to destruction against Jabin, king of Canaan.
And the men of Israel went in flight, and Benjamin came to death with the sword of the men of Israel, about thirty persons: for they said, Truly they are crushed before us as in the first war.
And his mother made him a robe of a little robe, and gave it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to give the peace-offerings.
And he will take your daughters for making perfume, and your daughters with haircloth.
And the men came to Saul at Gibeah, and said these words in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voice and were weeping.
And he overcame them with a very great force, from Aroer, as far as Minnith, in the town of Minnith, to Abel; and the children of Ammon were overcome before the children of Israel.
And he said to her, Give me a drink of water, for I am thirsty. And she made a bottle of milk and gave him a drink and covered him.
And fear in the tents, in the field, and among all the people, the armed men and the horsemen were shaking, and the earth was shaking, because it was a fear of God.
And they said to him, We have come down to put you under the hands of the Philistines. And the son of David said to them, Give me word, that you may not come on me.
And when he came to his end, he came to all who were his servants, the cause of eternal salvation.
No, my sons, for it is not good that I have news: you make the people of the Lord sin.
And the words which David had said were hearing before Saul.
And the men of the town were glad, and the men of the town came round about the house, crushing the door, saying to the old man, the master of the house, Send out the man who has come to your house, and we have knowledge of him.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel will not be with us; for his hand is hard on us and on our god Dagon.
And Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and they went to search for David in the direction of the hill-country.
Then Abimelech went to the town of Ai and put up his tents against him and took it.
At the number of the towns of Benjamin, there were twenty-six thousand men armed for war, in addition to the number of the men of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
He gives up the poor from the dust, lifting up the poor from the dust, to make them sit with noble men, to give them a seat of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has given them the earth.
For as the Lord is living, who gives Israel salvation, though he is in my son Jonathan, he will certainly be put to death; but there was no man among all the people who gave him an answer.
And Samuel said to him, What have you done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were not from me, and you were not come after the time when the Philistines came together in secret,
And when David came to Saul, he was waiting before him, and he was very dear love for him, and he was a man of war.
And after him was Shelomoth, the son of Maacah, who put an ox to the Philistines for six hundred men; and he gave Israel over to Israel.
Now the word of Samuel came to all Israel; and Israel went out against the Philistines to make war, and put up their tents by Ezion-geber: and the Philistines put up their tents at Aphek.
And he took the House and all the vessels of the holy place with blood.
When the Lord gave up judges for them, then the Lord was with the judge, and gave them salvation from the hand of their haters all the days of the judge: for it was bitter to the Lord because of their cry by reason of those who were troubled and troubled them.
And they said, Get up, and we will go up against them; for we have seen the land, and see, and you keep quiet: do not be slow to be feeble, to go in to take the land.
And they went into it to take the night there; and when they came in, they were seated in the street of the town, for no man would take them to the night.
And they said to one another, Who has done this? And when they made search for the decision of the word, the son of Joash did all this.
And David said in his heart, I will certainly be put to death one day by the hand of Saul, and there is nothing better for me than that I may go safely into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will have sorrow of me to search for me again in all the land of Israel. So I will get away from his hand.
And see, if it goes up to Beth-shemesh, it is he who has done us great evil: if not, then we will see that it is not his hand which has touched us; it was a chance for us.
And this is my sin against the Lord, so that I may give an end to you, and I will give you the good and the right way.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have done wrong; do you to us in all that is good in your eyes: only give us salvation, this day.
And all the rulers of Shechem and Beth-Millo came together, and went and made Abimelech king by the great tree in Shechem.
And Saul said to his servant, See, we may go, but what are we to give to the man? for the bread is gone from our bags, and there is no present for the man of God. What have we to do with us?
But his wife took one of his friends and gave her to her husband.
Even the Zidonians and the Amalekites and the Ashdodites have done cruel things against you; and you cry to me, and I have given you up out of their hands.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the body of Jesus Christ:
For this is the agreement which I will make with the house of Israel: and after those days, says the Lord, I will put my laws in their hearts, and put them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be my people.
And I said to you, I am the Lord your God: do not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living; but you have not given ear to my voice.
And they were seated together, feasting together and drinking, and the father of the girl's young woman said to the man, Let me go and night all night, and let your heart be glad.
And Samuel came no more to see Saul till the day of his death; and Samuel was sorrowing for Saul, and the Lord was very sad that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Give my love to all those who have authority over you, and to all the saints: for they of Italy send your love.
The wise women give an answer to her, and she says to herself,
Then Saul said to his servants, Come for me a woman who has a spirit of spirit, that I may go to her and get search of her. And his servants said to him, See, there is a woman who has a spirit at En-dor.
And the men of Israel said to the king, Rule over us, you and your son and your son's son; for you have given us salvation from the hand of Midian.
And the Lord said to him, There are still a great number of people, and I will put them down to the water, and I will put them in search for you there: and they will go with you, and they will go with you; and whoever I say to you, This will not go with you; the same will not go with you.
And he went to Ramah, and came to the well of the great well which was in Soco, and said, In what place are Samuel and David? And it was said to him, See they are in the town of Ramah.
And Hananiah said, My heart is glad in the Lord; my horn is lifted up in the Lord: my mouth is wide over my haters, because I am glad in your salvation.
So David and his men went to Keilah, attacking the Philistines, and took their cattle away and made a great slaughter for them: and David kept the people of Keilah.
And the Lord said to him, Because I am with you, you have put the Midianites to death.
Saying, I will make your name clear to my brothers, in the middle of the church I will make songs of praise to you.
And Samuel said to the people, Come, and we will go to Gilgal and make the kingdom new again.
And the house of Joseph sent to the town of Beth-el, where the town was named Luz.
Now there was a man in Maon, and his work in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats, and he was cutting off his flock in Carmel.
Then the chiefs of the Philistines went out; and after they went out, David was wiser than all the servants of Saul, and his name was very great.
And the Lord will give to every man his righteousness and his faith: because the Lord gave you into my hand today, and I would not put out my hand against the Lord's selection.
And when you have been waiting for three days, go down quickly, and come to the place where you have secretly been in your hands, and you will be safe from the stone of Ephraim.
If, then, you have done well, and have done wrong with Baal and his house, be glad this day in Abimelech, and let him be glad in you.
Now there was a man in Israel, when a man went to get directions from God, and he said, Come and let us go to the prophet; for he who is now named a prophet was before God.
And he came to the house of his father in Aram, and he put to death his brothers, the sons of Baal, seventy men, on one stone; and Jotham, the youngest, the son of Baal, was kept secret.
And they turned away from the Lord, the God of their fathers, who had taken them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods of the gods of the peoples round about them, worshipping them and making the Lord angry.
Woe to us! who will give us out of the hands of these great gods? These are the gods who put the Egyptians in the waste land with all kinds of diseases.
For if we sin by the knowledge of the truth, there is no sin for sin;
And Michal took the image and put it in the bed, and put the net on its head, covering it with the cover.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from you: for if I had knowledge of what my father had done to you, would I not give it to you?
And Samuel said to the cook, Take the property which I gave you, and take it away.
And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man who has come up? he has certainly come up against Israel: the king will give great wealth to the man who put him to death, and give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And David said to Abigail, Give praise to the Lord, the God of Israel, who sent you this day to see me, and blessing be your words:
All his training is for the present to be not full of joy, but later it gives good fruit to those who have been made by it, even the fruit of righteousness.
And make prayer for us, that we are certain that we have a good heart in our hearts, desiring to have respect in all things.
And the Philistines were waiting on the mountain on one side; and Israel was waiting on the mountain on the other side; and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel did as the Lord had said to him. And he came to Beth-lehem, and the responsible men of the town were surprised and said to him, Is it possible for your coming here?
Then David sent out his name and said to him, As the Lord is living, you have been upright, and your going out with me in the army is good in my eyes: for I have not seen evil in you from the day of your coming to me to this day. But the lords have no respect for you.
And on the next day, when the Philistines came to strip the dead, they found Saul and his three sons on Mount Gilboa.
And I have all things, and have increased; I am full of the measure of a sweet smell, a sweet smell, an offering pleasing to God:
And he sent and took him in, and he was full of hair, full of eyes and of good eyes; and the Lord said, Get up, put oil on him for this he.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he who said, Will Saul rule over us? take the men, and we will put them to death.
And he said to Jether his oldest son, Get up, put them to death; and the young man has not put his sword to death, because he was still a young man.
Now the sons of Heli, who were the children of the evil-doer, had no knowledge of the Lord.
All these were put to death in faith, not having the word given to him, but seeing them from far away and falling on his neck, saying that they were strangers and living in the earth.
For he who is working in you is God, and he is God.
So I said, Now the Philistines will come down on me to Gilgal, and I will not give ear to the grace of the Lord: I have made myself hard for the burned offering.
He will keep the feet of his holy ones; but the evil-doer will be put to shame in the dark, and no man will overcome him.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble, the people were troubled, and the people kept themselves in the holes and in the woods and in the rocks and in the high places and in holes and in holes.
For the Lord takes care of the rod of the Lord, and every son whom he takes away.
After this he had a wife who was living in the valley of Egypt, and she was named Night.
And the children of Israel went back from pursuing the Philistines and took away their tents.
And there are many who have become priests, because by death they are kept from death.
Let your face be clear to all men: the Lord is near.
And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord and the vessel which was beside it, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burned offerings to the Lord on that day.
And he took away the king of Amalek with the sword, and overcame all the people with the sword.
And not while I am still living, will you not let the love of the Lord be with me, so that I may not be put to death?
And he said to the children of Israel, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I have taken Israel up from Egypt, and have given you salvation from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all the kings who put you in trouble.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said; and there he put out from there the three sons of Anak.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the men of Tekoa, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon to the river Jabbok, and the Jordan, so now let the land be quiet.
And when they were put to shame till they were put to shame, he did not open the doors of the doors, so they took the key of the key to them, and said, Their master was dead on the earth.
And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord and the gold which was with it, in which the vessels of gold and the great stone were put down; and the men of Beth-shemesh had burned burned offerings and burned offerings in that day to the Lord.
And he will take care of your fields and your vine-gardens and your vine-gardens, and give to his servants.
And the Philistines came by morning and evening, and gave him forty days.
And the man said to him, I am he who came out of the fight, and I have gone out of the fight today. And he said, What has taken place, my son?
And it was so hard for him to undergo the word of God.
And it came to pass, when Sisera went after the tents of Sisera, stretching out before him, he said to him, Come, and I will make clear to you the man you are looking for. And he went into her, and when Sisera was put to death, and the nails were in his houses.
And he said to him, Why are you questioning my name, which is great?
And he was full of water, crying to the Lord, and said, You have given by the hand of your servant this great salvation: and now I am put to death in need of water, and have come into the hands of the uncircumcised.
And a man came to Saul, saying, Come quickly and come; for the Philistines have gone against the land.
And Samuel went back after Saul, and Saul gave worship to the Lord.
The Lord takes away his wealth, and he makes wealth; he makes low, and he makes low.
For there is a division of the agreement, when men are dead, so that while there is no strength, but as long as the death is life.
And when he came into his house, he took a knife and took his wife, cutting her into twelve parts, and sent her through all the country of Israel.
Do not make your hearts hard, as in the day of the testing in the waste land.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did what was right in his eyes.
And he took them before the king of Moab; and they were living with him all the time when David was in the care.
But for the cutting of the waste places, and for the cutting of the meat-hooks, and for the meat-hooks, and for the grain-blades, and for the cutting sticks.
If he says this, it is good; your servant will have peace; but if he is angry, then he has knowledge of that evil is made by him.
And when the words of David were ended, they gave them orders before Saul, and he sent for him.
And he will take care of your daughters and take care of your daughters, and they will be responsible for themselves and for the chief bread-maker.
And at Beth-shemesh they got up their grain in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark and was glad to see it.
In every good work, to do his will, working in you what is pleasing in his eyes, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever and ever.
All the saints send their love to you, and specially those of the family of Caesar.
And the Philistines were fighting against Israel, and Israel was put to flight; and they went in flight to his tents, and there was a great number of men, thirty thousand footmen.
Then that I might have knowledge of him, and the power of his coming back to life, and the blessing of his pain, and that he might be made as his death.
And he had thirty sons seated on thirty asses, and they had thirty towns named Jair, which is in the land of Gilead.
And when they came and saw Eliab, he said, Truly, the Lord's selection is before him.
And he gave the children of Benjamin by their families, and the family of the men of war was taken by lot; and Saul, the son of Kish, had been marked out, searching for him, but he was not able to be seen.
Then all the trees of the field said to the thorns, Come, O king over us.
And the number of the things said about them, We have such a chief priest, seated at the right hand of the glory in heaven,
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the mercies of Christ Jesus.
And when the young men of David came, they gave orders to the sons of Nabal the Carmelite, and they stopped.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they did not keep the Lord their God, and gave worship to the Baals and the Asherah.
And Gad the prophet said to David, Do not be safe in the strong place; go and go into the land of Judah. Then David went away and came into the woods of Haran.
And with such a force the blade went in after the wound, and was shut up with the mass of fat; and he did not go out with the sword, but went out into his body as he had put it on. And immediately the inside parts of the stomach came out.
And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man who is coming up? for he will come up to shame against Israel, and the man who overcame him will make him fertile, and his daughter he will give to him, and his father's house will be made free in Israel.
And when he came to Mary, the son of Heli, he said, Here am I, for you have called me. And he said, I did not call; go back and sleep. And he went in sleep.
And when Samuel was dead, all Israel came together, weeping for him, and they put him in his house at Ramah. Then David got up and went down to the waste land of Paran.
And the servants of Saul said to him, This is what David said.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the men of Tekoa, Because Israel took my land from the Arnon to the Jabbok and the Jordan, when they came up out of the land of Egypt, give it back in peace.
For to which of the angels he said, You are my son: today I am your father. And again, I will be to him a father, and he will be my Son.
Be with me, do not be afraid: for he who is looking for my life is looking for your life, and with me you will be safe.
O Lord, be judge, and give decisions between me and you, and take note of my cause, and take me out of your hands.
And they saw the waters in the valley, and they were fighting against him, and the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
But now this will be the thing which we will do to Gibeah: we will go up by measure against it.
Whatever comes out of the doors of my house to come to me, when I come back safely out of the children of Ammon, will be the Lord's, and I will make it for a burned offering.
And the children of Ammon said to them, In this condition I will make a agreement with you, and I will take away all your right eyes and make you a shame in all Israel.
And the Philistines were fighting against Israel; and the men of Israel had gone away from before the Philistines, and they went down to death on Mount Gilboa.
And Baal, the son of Joash, was living in his house.
Then he made prayer to the Lord and said, O Lord, I say to you, O Lord, the man whom you sent will come again and give us teaching what we ought to do for the child.
And he was able to let them go free from death by the fear of death.
The makers of Sisera went in flight to the tent of Japheth, and the land of Eber the Kenites, because there was peace between Jabin, king of Hazor, and the land of Eber the Kenites.
I have knowledge of what is to be made low, and I have knowledge how to increase; in all things, and in all things I have been trained, to be full and to be without need, to the end and to undergo need.
And the children of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord, and gave worship to the Baals and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Aram, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines and the gods of the Philistines, and gave up the Lord, and had not been his servants.
And the children of Israel went up to weeping before the Lord till evening; and they said to the Lord, Will I again come near against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the Lord said, Go up against him.
I am a witness against me before the Lord, and before his appointed one: whose ox I have taken, and whose ass have I taken? or who have I done wrong? or who have I done wrong? or from whose hand have I taken a reward, so that I may put my eyes on him? I will give it back to you.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, from the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and from all the families of Benjamin, or of all the families of Benjamin? why do you say to me in this way?
For every high priest has been given to men in connection with God, to make offerings and offerings for sin:
Take care of the dogs, take care of those who do evil, take care of the debt.
So you will cry out on that day because of your king whom you have marked for yourselves, but the Lord will not give you an answer on that day.
And he sent representatives through all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against the Midianites and take before them the waters of Beth-Arabah and the Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim came together and took the waters of the Jordan to the Jordan.
Be cruel to the training; for God does with you as with his sons; for what son is there, whom the father does not give punishment?
And again there was war; and David went out with the Philistines and put them to death with a great slaughter, and they went away from him.
Then the chiefs of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews doing here? And he said to the chiefs of the Philistines, Is this not David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who has been with me for a long time and years? I have not seen anything troubling in him from the day of his waste till this day.
And she said to him, My father, if you have open your mouth to the Lord, do to me whatever you have said; for the salvation has been given to you, and the punishment of your haters.
Then Samuel said to Saul, Go, and I will give you word what the Lord has said to me this night. And he said to him, Say on.
By my desire and hope, so that in nothing I will be put to shame, but in all things, as long as ever, now Christ will be honoured in my body, if by life or by death.
But the things which we have, let us go in the same steps.
But the people took part of the goods, sheep and oxen, and the chiefs of the things which were to be put to destruction, to make offerings to the Lord your God in Gilgal.
So he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and went through the land of the valley, but they did not see them: they went through the land of the dead, but they were not there: he went through the land of Benjamin, but did not find them.
And Judah went up, and the Lord gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands, and they overcame ten thousand men.
And after a time he came back to take her, and went away to see the dead bodies of the lion: and, behold, there was a swarm of bees and honey in the dead bodies of the lion.
For we have a great priest over the house of God,
And you have made clear to me this day what good things you have done to me: how the Lord has given me into your hand, and you have not put me to death.
And the children of Israel went back from pursuing the Philistines, and took their tents.
For those who say these things are made clear to their heritage.
And he said, There was one hundred and ten kings, and ten kings, with their thumbs and toes, put their food under my table: as I have done, so God has given me a reward. And they took him to Jerusalem, and he was dead there.
So on that day the Lord gave Israel salvation, and the fight went in to Beth-aven.
And they saw among the living men of Gilead, four hundred young virgins who had no knowledge of a man, and they took them to the tent-circle at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And he said to his young man, Go, get ready the arrows which I have out for. And as the child was running, he made an arrow on him.
But you are to give comfort to one another day by day, as long as it is given to you, so that you may not be made free by the error of sin.
The Lord makes poor and makes great wealth; he makes low and high.
The need of the bread is full of food, and the need of the hungry has stopped; and while the children of old have had seven, and the fruit of the children is feeble.
And when the men of the town got up early in the morning, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the image of Asherah was cut down by it, and the second ox was put on the altar which was building.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you troubled me, to give me up? And Saul said, I am greatly troubled: for the Philistines have made war against me, and God has gone away from me, and has no answer for me or by the prophets or by dreams. So I have given you orders to make clear to me what I will do.
And still he is not to give himself to himself, as the high priest goes into the holy place every year with blood.
So they went on by the Jebusites, and they went on their journey; and the sun went down on them at Gibeah, in the tribe of Benjamin.
For I have given you a great number of the way which I have said to you frequently, and now you are to say that they are the haters of the cross of Christ:
For which cause it came from one, and he was dead as dead as the stars of heaven, and as the sand by the sea.
And Elon, the son of Heth, died, and was put to rest in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And again on a day he said in David, To day, after a long time, he said, To day, if you will give ear to his voice, do not be hard-hearted.
For we have not a high priest who is not able to take care of ourselves with our diseases, but put in all things in like manner, sin without sin.
And you went on from there and on the other side, and went to the great tree of Tabor, and saw there three men going up to Beth-el, one having three young goats, one having three cakes of bread, and one took a bottle of wine.
My brothers, I do not take care of myself to have connection with myself, but the things which have no memory of it and the things which are in the past.
Gilead is living on the other side of Jordan, and Dan is still in ships: Asher was seated on the sea, and there he was in his secret place.
And the children of Dan said to him, Let not your voice be heard among us, lest a man be angry with you, and you give up your life with the life of your house.
If he is able to make war with me and overcome me, then we will be your servants; but if I have overcome him and put him to death, then you will be our servants and servants.
And the people said to Saul, Will Jonathan be put to death, who has done this great salvation in Israel? As the Lord lives, there will not one hair of his head fall to the earth, because he has done with God this day. So the people gave up Jonathan, so that he would not be put to death.
Who will make the parts of our body like the glory of his glory, according to the power of the power of God, to give all things to himself.
And her father said, I thought that you had a great hate for her: so I gave her to you: is not her younger sister than she? take her, I pray you, for her.
And we will take ten men of a hundred, in all the tribes of Israel, a hundred thousand of a thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand, to get food for the people, so that they may come to the town of Benjamin, as they have done in Israel.
And when he was overcome by his glory and his glory, and made all things by the word of his power, having made himself clean, put himself down on his right hand on high,
And Samuel said, How am I to go? when Saul has news, then he has put me to death. And the Lord said, You will take a cow of the herd in your hand, and say, To give offerings to the Lord I have come.
The children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in position at Gibeah, as at other times.
And the men who were with him, and the hundred men with him, came to the end of the tent-circle in the middle of the middle of the town, when they had a new watch, and they sounded the horns and the vessels which were in their hands were broken.
Brethren, be imitators of me, and give note to those who are living in this way, as you have for an example.
If they say this to us, Keep your rest till we come to you; let us go in our place and not go up to them.
And they took what he had made, and the priest that he had had, and came on a people quiet and safe; and they overcame them with the sword and burned the town with fire.
Be with me; do not be troubled; for he who is looking for my life is looking for your life, for you will be safe with me.
Now there was no man in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make war or spears.
But it came to pass in the morning, that the Levites were ready to go on his journey. And his father said to him, I say to you, take a little food and make yourself strong till the day is past, and then you may go away. And they took food together.
And when he had made an end of giving the tax, he sent away the people who were the tax.
The most good of women is named, and the wife of Eber the Kenites; she is the most good of women among the tents of tents.
And it came to pass, that Nahash the Ammonite came up and put up his tents against the land of Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Make a agreement with us, and we will be your servant.
And he took it into his hands, and went on his way, and went on his way; and he came to his father and mother and gave them food, but they did not say that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
But I am in trouble between the two, having the desire to go and be with Christ: for it is very better.
And they sent men to Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have taken back the ark of the Lord again; come down and get it up to you.
So let all your haters be cut off, O Lord; let those who love him be as the sun when he goes out in his strength: and the land had rest for forty years.
And he made him a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he put it on his robe on his right leg.
And the chiefs of Issachar, Deborah, came to the valley, to get him from behind; and among the children of Reuben there was a great decision.
And you, O Lord, have put the earth on the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hands:
So now, O king, come down with all the desire of your soul to come down, and let our part be handed over to the king's hand.
Then you will come to the mountain of God, where the army of the Philistines is: and when you are come to the town, you will come to a group of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp and with a harp and a pipe and a harp before them, and they will be able to say,
And when Israel had been planted, Midian and Amalek, and the rest of the nations came up:
And he sent and took him, red and beautiful, and a beautiful face. And the Lord said, Up and put oil on him, for this is he.
And the children of Israel came near to the children of Benjamin on the second day.
And all the fighting-men got up and went all night, taking the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh and burned them there.
And Saul's wrath was burning against Jonathan, and he said to him, O son of a twisted woman, have I not seen that you have put up the son of Jesse to your shame and to the shame of your mother?
God has given grace to us, so that they may not be made free from us.
And Samuel gave orders to the people all the words of the Lord to the people.
Have mercy on your servant, for you have taken your servant into a agreement with you; but if there is any wrong in me, put me to death; why do you send me to your father?
And he said, I have come to the Lord; I have come to give offerings to the Lord; make yourselves holy, and come with me to the offering. And he made Jesse and his sons holy, and gave them to the peace-offerings.
For I am certain that this will give me salvation through your prayer, and by the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
And the blessing of Elkanah and his wife said, The Lord give you seed of this woman for the debt which is given to the Lord; and they went to their place.
And Abimelech, the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, took his name and went running away after David.
And six hundred men turned and went in flight to the waste land of Rimmon for four months.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they said to the wife of the daughter of the son of King the king, Now make clear to us the story, or we will be burned with fire and your father's house: have you sent us to take away our goods?
But the men would not give ear to him; and the man took his wife, and took her out to them, and they had knowledge of her and made her waste all night till the morning, and let her go when the morning got up.
Now these things are to be done in the first meeting of the Tent of meeting, to do the work.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines to them, and they said, What may we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be moved through the direction of Gath. And they put the ark of the God of Israel in Gath.
So that he who made a good work in you will be complete till the day of Jesus Christ.
And Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Go with me into my country, and we will be fighting against the Canaanite, and I will go with you with you. And Simeon went with him.
And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner was the father of Abner;
Then the king of Jehoash went back from the fight to the slope of the House of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord; and the Lord gave orders to Eglon to make it hard for Eglon, because they had done evil in the eyes of the Lord.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, with David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David went in flight to get away from Saul, for Saul and his men were about David and his men round about to take them.
But Abimelech, the son of Ahitub, was his name, and his name was Joab, and he went in flight after David.
And after a few days, David got up with the men who were under him; and he put to death two hundred men of the Philistines, and took their bands and numbered them to the king, so that he might be his son. So Saul gave him Michal, his daughter, to wife.
And the Philistines were made low, and they had not gone into the land of Israel: and the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And his father and his mother did not see that this was from the Lord, and he was looking for a cause against the Philistines. At that time the Philistines were ruling in Israel.
And we went against the king of the Cherethites and the king of Judah and the south of Caleb, and we put fire on him.
And when he came, he was seated in his seat by the way watching, for his heart was moved for the ark of God: and when he came into the town, all the town was crying out.
And he said to all Israel, You will be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do what is good in your eyes.
For the purpose of God is living, and the work of God, and the sharp parts of every twoedged sword, and the sharp parts of the body and the spirit of life, and the desire of the body, and the desire of the heart;
And I will not send out any of the nations which Joshua went away from before them:
But there was a strong tower in the town, and all the men and women, all the men of the town, took it away from them, and went up to the roof of the tower.
They have made war from heaven, and the stars from their ways have made war with Sisera.
Because you did not keep the voice of the Lord, and did not take away his wrath against Amalek, the Lord has done this to you this day.
So David sent out some men, and they saw that Saul had come.
And these all, having been given witness by faith, did not have the word of the word.
Now when he had gone away from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all these things were done that day.
The same things which you have seen in me, and now give ear to me.
And the son of Joash went back from the war, and went back from the war to the king.
These are the nations whom the Lord went away to make Israel clear by them, all who had no knowledge of all the wars of Canaan:
I had pity on Saul, because he had turned away from me and had not kept my orders. And Samuel was troubled, and he gave prayer to the Lord all night.
And after that, he had a wife in the valley of birth, whose name was named by name.
For every house is made by others, but God who made everything is God.
Give orders to those who have authority over you, and be under them; for they keep watch over your souls, as they are to give account, so that they may do this with joy and not with sorrow: for this was evil for you.
And let it be shut up as for the people, so that he may give for his sins.
For I have no fear in the same way, because of the things which are in you.
As soon as he was dead, the children of Israel turned back again, and went after the Baals and made worship their gods.
And the Lord will give to every man his righteousness and his faith: for the Lord has given you this day, and I will not put my hand on the king of the Lord.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman who was put to death, said, I came to the town of Benjamin, and I and my wife went to the night.
And he said to them, See me, and do so; and, when I come to the end of the tent-circle, it will be the same as I do.
And all the evil men and the evil men, who went with David, said, Because they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the goods which we have got well, to every man his wife and his children, so that they may take them away and go away.
And the house of Joseph went to the town of Beth-el, and the name of the town was Luz.
And about ten days the Lord made the sinner, and he was dead.
And he took away the king of Amalek with the sword and overcame all the people with the sword.
And early in the morning he got up early in the morning, but the young woman's father said, Give me comfort. And they were waiting for food till the ninth day.
But he gave him a second part twice; for he had love for Hananiah, but the Lord shut her up.
And when she saw that it was seen to her, she sent to the chiefs of the Philistines, saying, Come up again, for now he has given his heart to me. And they went up with them the money which they had said.
And David got up early in the morning, and went out from the flock with the keeper of the flock, and took the food, and went as Jesse had given him orders; and he came to the tent-circle when the people were going to the war, and they gave up the war cry.
And the men of Israel were troubled, and the men of Benjamin were troubled, for they saw that evil had come on them.
No, my sons, for the news which I am hearing is not good to the Lord.
There is a word of Christ, even from envy and argument, and some of good things.
And to whom he had made an oath, they would not go into his rest, but those who had no faith.
And an angel of the Lord came up from Gilgal to the prophet, saying, I have made you go up out of Egypt, and have taken you into the land which I made an oath to your fathers: and I said, I will not break my agreement with you.
And when David came back from the death of the Philistines, Abner took him and took him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
So that at the name of Jesus every knee will be made low, of heaven and of earth, and of the shaking of the earth;
And the man went out of the town of Beth-lehem, and went to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to go on his way.
Now then, let my lord the king give ear to the words of his servant: if the Lord has made you come up against me, let him take an offering; but if they are sons of men, let them be cursed before the Lord; for they have sent me out of the heritage of the Lord, saying, Go to other gods.
And he took away the children of the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and overcame Israel, and they took the walls of palm-trees.
And the men of Shechem were waiting for him on the tops of the mountains; and they took away all those who were by them, and Abimelech was told.
And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was troubled, and said to him, See, your servant has given ear to your voice, and I have put my life in my hands, and have given ear to your words which you have given me.
And all the men of Shechem came together, and all the houses of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the great tree in Shechem.
But the upright are living by faith; and if he comes back, my soul does not take pleasure in him.
And Samuel sent the people together to the Lord at Mizpah.
Even though the men were very good to us, we were not wrong, and we had nothing to do anything for ever, while we were in the field.
And the priest gave him holy bread, for there was no bread there, but only the bread of the holy bread which had been taken away from before the Lord, so that the bread might be made ready.
And this is what you are to keep: every male and every woman who has knowledge of men will be put to death, but the young women you will keep safe.
And when he had news of the dream and the sense of his sense, he gave worship to himself. Then he went back to the tents of Israel and said, Up, for the Lord has given the army of Midian into your hands.
In addition to the faith of Sarah, she was able to give birth to the fruit of seed and of the fruit of the land; for she had faith in his word.
For the high priest is to give mercy to those without knowledge, because he himself is full of deceit.
For we have knowledge of the one who says, I will take care of myself, I will give punishment, says the Lord; and again, the Lord will judge his people.
And Samuel said, How am I to go? If he has news of it, he will put me to death. And the Lord said, Take a young cow with you, and say, I have come to give an offering to the Lord.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See, I will do a thing in Israel, and all the ears of every one who has ears of it will be shamed.
By faith Moses, when he was given birth, was hidden three months by his mother, because they saw that he was a beautiful child; and they were not afraid of the king's orders.
And they gave news to Saul, and he sent other men, and they were a prophet; and Saul went again and sent representatives a third time, and they were prophets.
And for seven days, after all the days of Samuel, I and Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people bit him.
How much more will the blood of Christ be given to God by the eternal Spirit, which has been made without a mark to God, to make your heart clean from death to the living God?
And when Abigail saw David, she went quickly and got off her ass, falling before David on her face, worshipping her face.
Now now, if you have done well, and have done wrong to Abimelech king over you, and have done well with him, and has done well with Baal and with his house, and have made a good payment for him who is fighting for you,
For when you are to be teachers, you have need to make clear to you the things which are in the law of God, and have need of milk, not of solid food.
And David did not let man or woman come to Gath, for he had said, Lest they may say to us, So did David. And he did as he was in the land of the Philistines.
And David said to the army and to Abner, the son of Ner, Will you not give an answer, Abner? And Abner said, Who are you that you send to the king?
For we have not here a safe town, but we are looking for the town which is to come.
And they went on from the west side of the town, and ten thousand men from all Israel went up against the people of the town; and the people of Benjamin were fighting against the children of Benjamin, and they did not see that death was on every side.
And as Samuel was turning away to go away, Saul put on the robe of his robe, and was sad.
And David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel and go to the Carmelite, and give him my name.
But if they say, Come up to us, then we will go up: for the Lord has given them into our hands, and this will be the sign for us.
For the responsible men had a witness to them.
And the servant said to Saul again, See, I have here with the fourth part of a shekel of silver, so that I may give to the man of God, to give orders to us.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from you: for if I am certain that my father had evil to come on you, would I not have given it to you?
Give my love to every holy one in Christ Jesus.
So let us go quickly with fear to the seat of grace, so that we may be given mercy, and have grace for the future.
And wisdom said to the responsible men of Gilead, Have you not hated me and send me out of my father's house? why have you come to me now when you are in trouble?
Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel; and the men of Israel had gone away from before the Philistines, and they came down dead on Mount Gilboa.
And the man got up to go away; but his father-in-law kept hard with him, and he was there again.
Then Samuel sent to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain on that day; and all the people were greatly fearing the Lord and Samuel.
And he took the three hundred men into three bands, and put them on the horns and put them on the rods with burning vessels, with burning lights inside the vessels.
Even though I have had faith in the flesh, if any man is able to have faith in the flesh, I am more.
And the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they said, The daughter of Jonathan, the son-in-law of the sister of Serah, because he has taken away his wife and give her to his friend. And the Philistines went up and burned her and her father with fire.
And the things which you have seen has been seen in me, and have seen it: do these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
Men, my brothers, I do not give thought to myself, but I do one thing, and I take care of the things which are in the past.
For those who say these things make clear to themselves that they are searching for their heritage.
And David got up and went away that day for fear of Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
Make full of my joy, so that you may be of the same mind, having the same love, being of one mind;
And when the ruler of the town, the ruler of the town, had news of the words of Gath, his wrath was burning.
Why do you make yourselves among the flocks, to give ear to the flocks? At the streams of Reuben there were great burning hearts.
And they took the food of the people in their hands and their horns; and all the men of Israel sent them away, every man to his tent, but the three hundred men. And the tents of Midian were under him in the valley.
Then David said to Ahimelech the Hittite and Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, to Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul to the tent-circle? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
All the days of Joshua, and all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the old men who were living on Joshua, who had seen all the great work of the Lord which he had done for Israel.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, If you keep me, I will not take your food: but if you make a burned offering for the Lord, let him give it to him; for he has not seen that he was an angel of the Lord.
And to those in Aroer, and to those who were in Midian, and to those who were in Eshtemoa,
So now, my lord, as the Lord is living, and as your soul is living, seeing the Lord has kept you from blood, and from the blood of your hands, so let your haters and those who are evil to my lord be as the sinner.
Even as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he went after them; and he went after them, and took away the two kings of Midian, like Zebah and Zalmunna, and sent destruction on all the army.
And in the day of war there was no sword and spear in the hands of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan; and Saul and Jonathan his son.
And Shechem was waiting for him on the tops of the mountains, and every one of them was taken by them.
And see, if it goes up by the way to Beth-shemesh, he has done this great evil; but if not, then we will see that it is not his hand who has put us to death; it was a chance for us.
And the violent men of war went and put their blood on Abimelech their brother, and put them to death, and on the men of Shechem, who made his hands put to death his brothers.
And every tongue says that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
And the men of Jabesh-gilead said, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you will do with us all that seems good to you.
And when he was put to rest till the middle of the middle of the night, he got up in the middle of the night and took the doors of the town and the two pillars, pulling them up, and put them on his shoulders, and took them up to the top of the mountain which is before Hebron.
And the weight of the gold rings which he made for a thousand, seven hundred shekels of gold, and the chains and the chains and the purple robes which were on the kings of Midian, and in addition to the chains round their camels.
There is some of envy and argument, but some of them comes to the word of Christ.
Let us go out to him outside the tent-circle, for his shame.
So the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of those who took them; and they took their goods and gave them into the hands of their haters from all sides; and they were unable to get up against their haters any longer.
Saul was ruling for one year, and he ruled for two years over Israel.
And her father said, I have said that you have hated her, and I give her to you. Is not her my sister, the young one, better than she? let her be to you for her.
And the five men went on, and they saw how the people were living in it without fear, as the people of Sidon, safe and easy, having no one to do anything against them, being very rich and living, near Sidon and all men.
By faith Abraham gave glory to Isaac, and the only child he gave to those who had been given the word.
And the blade went in after the blade, and the fat was shut up on the edge; for he did not come out of his stomach, and it came out between the legs.
And Jonathan said, See, we are going over to the men, and we will make themselves clear to them.
And David said in his heart, I will certainly be put to death one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I would go quickly to the land of the Philistines; and Saul will have sorrow of me in all the limits of Israel, and I will get away from his hand.
And he took the three hundred men into three bands; and he put them on the horns and put them on the rods with burning vessels, with burning lights inside the vessels.
In those days there was no king in Israel, that a Levite, living in the hill-country of Ephraim, took a woman from Beth-lehem in Judah.
Now the men of Israel had made an oath in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us will give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.
Be united with me, brothers and sisters, and keep them in the same way, as you have us.
And again, I will put my faith in him. And again, I am with the children whom God has given me.
Take care of the dogs, watch over the evil workers, keep watch over the circumcision.
And he said, This is the rule of the king who has rule over you: he will take your sons and take care of his war-carriages and his horsemen, and they will go before his war-carriages.
And David went out from there, taking care of it, and went to the fight; and he went and made a request how his brothers were doing.
But to which we have come, so that we may be of the same mind, let us be the same rule.
So I said, The Philistines will come down on me to Gilgal, and I will not make prayer to the Lord: I have made myself hard for myself, and I have given a burned offering.
If there is any comfort in Christ, if there is any comfort of love, if any of the spirits of the spirit, if there is any grief,
And over the children of Israel were seventy sons, for he had much wives.
And Saul put the spear on his spear, for he said, I will make David take care of David even to the wall. And David went out from his face.
So David went with him, and he and the six hundred men who were with him, and came to the river, where those who were left went.
For every high priest, which is taken from among men, is made ready for men before God, to make offerings and offerings for sin;
And they were crying to the Lord, and said, We have done wrong, because we have gone away from the Lord, and have given worship to the Baals and to Ashtaroth: but now give us salvation from the hand of our haters, and we will be your servant.
And Saul's brother said to him and to his servant, Where did you go? They said, To search for the asses, and not finding them we went to Samuel.
And a man went in flight, and they went after him and took him, cutting off his hands and on his great toes.
And they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines to them, and said, What may we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken to Gath, and they took the ark of the God of Israel.
And they gave honour to the house of Baal, as it is, as the Lord had done for Israel.
And they gave orders to the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and be waiting in the vine-gardens.
And the man of the dead said to David's servants, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? there are many servants now, but every one of them is broken away from his master.
You have made the earth strong, O Lord; and the heavens are the works of your hands.
Then David got up and went out from the mouth of the hole, crying out after Saul, saying, My lord, O king! And Saul took care of his face. And David put his face on the earth and gave him worship.
And David said to his servants, Let every man put on his sword, and let every man put his sword on his sword, and let him put on his sword, and let four hundred men go up after David; and two hundred men went up with the goods.
And David was the youngest, and the three sons went after him.
For the Lord will not give up his people for his great name, because it has been pleasing to the Lord to make you a people for himself.
And Jonathan got up from the table in burning wrath, and did not take food on the second day of the new moon, because he was sad for David, because his father had done him shame.
Now when the ark of the agreement of the Lord came into the tent-circle, all Israel gave a loud cry, and the earth was moved.
And on the day when the people got up early, they made an altar and burned offerings and peace-offerings.
And they said to the men of Jabesh-gilead, This is what you are to say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, Tomorrow you will have salvation in the heat of the sun. And the men of Jabesh-gilead came and gave news to the men of Jabesh-gilead, and they were glad.
Be imitators of me, brothers and sisters, and put your eyes on those who are living, as you have for us.
And he said, You took away my gods which I had made, and the priest, and then you go away: what is now to me? how do you say to me, What is the thing?
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who came not up with the church to the Lord? because they had a great oath against him who came not up to the Lord at Mizpah, saying, He will certainly be put to death.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and took it from the rock of Ashdod.
( For they were only priests without an oath; but he made an oath by him that he had said of him, The Lord has made his oath and will not change his mind, you are a priest for ever.
Now when he had gone away from Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all these signs came on that day.
And the children of Dan said to him, Let not your voice be heard among us, that violent men may not come against you, and take your life and the life of your house.
Let all your haters be cut off, O Lord; but let those who love you be shining as the sun shining in his coming.
And the Philistines came together to Aphek, and the children of Israel put up their tents by the water-spring in Jezreel.
And death came to him, and he was put to death in the land of Zebulun.
But now he has a greater part of the grace which has been given to him, so much as he is the law of a grace which is given by the law.
And the children of Ephraim came to the north and said to the north, Why did you go to fight against the children of Ammon, and did not let us go with you? We will be burned with fire round about you.
And Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, cutting down the branches from the trees, and took it up and put it on his back. And he said to the people who were with him, What you have seen me do quickly, and do as I have done.
And David said to the men who were waiting by him, What will be done to the man who takes the death of the Philistines, and take away the shame of Israel? for who is this unclean Philistine, to make sport of the armies of the living God?
And the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord; for the men had no respect for the offering of the Lord.
In my wrath they will never go into my rest.
And when he saw her, he took his robes, and said, My daughter, you have tricked me, and you have been tricked; for I have given up my mouth to the Lord, and I am able to do no other thing.
For by one offering he has made complete for ever those who are made holy.
And she was weeping weeping for her seven days; and on the seventh day he gave birth to her, because she was troubled by him; and she gave news to the children of her people.
But to what we have come, by the same rule we have the same opinion;
And Jonathan gave an oath again to David, because he had love for him, for he had love for him as he loved himself.
But now they long for a better thing, that is, a man of heaven, and he is not shamed of them, to be named their God, for he has made ready for them a town.
How are we to give for wives for them, seeing that we have made an oath by the Lord that we will not give our daughters to wives?
And after time he went back to take her, and went away to see the dead bodies of the lion, and saw a number of bees in the body of the lion and of the honey.
And they went up to Kiriath-jearim in the land of Judah: from that time there was named the tents of Dan and Kiriath-jearim.
And when you see the daughters of Shiloh come out, as the custom is, come out quickly out of the vine-gardens, and let every man take his wife among them, and go into the land of Benjamin.
For to me is Christ, and to death there is profit.
If by any means I might be able to come to life from the dead.
As for the things which you have seen in me, and now have news of me.
And Abimelech went to the place of Thebez and put up his tents against him and took it.
And David said to him, If I have found grace in your eyes, let a place be given me in one of the towns of this land, so that I may be there: why should your servant be living in the king's town with you?
And the children of Israel got up in the morning and put up their tents at Gibeah.
And he said to them, This is what Micah has done to me, and he has given me a servant, and I am his priest.
I have given ear to your herdmen that the keepers of your flocks were cut off, and we were not able to take them, and there was no loss to them from the flock at the time when they were with us in Carmel.
And we have not turned away from our meetings, as it is a long time, but it is hard for one another; and much more as you see the day when you see the day.
But Midian was put to shame before the children of Israel, and they were not able to take the weight of their rods: but the land was resting for forty years, while the king's head was taken away.
And Jonathan gave an oath to David, because he had love for him: for he loved him as his soul.
And David said to him, Have you put me down to this band? And he said, Give me word by God, that you will not put me to death or give me up to my master, and I will send you down to this band.
And God gave to them all the evil-doing of the men of Shechem on their heads, and the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerub-baal.
He is able to give to those without knowledge, and to the wandering of error, because he himself is full of fear.
Gilead is on the other side of Jordan; and why did Dan stay in ships? Asher went on to the sea, and put his place in the cracks.
Go now, make clear, and see, and see where his foot is: who has seen him there? for he has said to me, He is very cruel.
And every one who sees it has said, There has never been anything like this: it has not been seen like this, from the day when the children of Israel come up out of the land of Egypt till this day: put on it, take counsel, and say.
And she made a promise, saying, O Lord of armies, if you will see the evil of your servant, and keep me in memory of me, and have no memory of your servant, but will give to your servant a son, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no worm will come on his head.
And her husband got up and went after her, to give her a blessing, and his servant was with him and two asses, and took him into her father's house. And when the girl's father saw him, he was glad to see him.
And the work of the holy place and the upright Tent which the Lord put up and not man.
And it came to pass at that time, that it was sleeping in his place, and his eyes became dark and he was not able to see.
And we will come to a people who are safe, into a wide country, and the Lord will give us up to us, in which there is no pleasure in the earth.
And the children of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil thing among you?
But the children of Benjamin did not put destruction on the Jebusites who were living in Jerusalem: and the Jebusites were living with the children of Benjamin at Jerusalem till this day.
For he has seen his cause against them, says, See, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will have mercy on the children of Israel and the children of Judah, a new agreement.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel may not be with us, for his hand is hard on us, and our god Dagon.
And the man got up to get his wife, his wife, and his servant, but his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, said to him, Let the day of the evening be pleasing to you, and let the day be ready for the night, and go into the night and take care of yourself; tomorrow you may go to your house tomorrow.
And as they were going down to the end of the town, Samuel said to Saul, Give orders to the servant to go on before us ( and he went past); but now you are waiting now to give ear to the word of God.
So that there may be a man who is unclean or unclean, as Esau, who is to give his birthright to his brother.
And Saul went quickly and went down with his strength to the earth and was full of fear because of the words of Samuel, and had no power in him, because he had not had food all the day and all night.
And the servants of David said to him, See the day the Lord has said to you, I will let your hater be yours, so that you may do to him as it seems good in your eyes. Then David got up and took off the robe of Saul.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah and went after the Philistines, and overcame them, as far as Beth-horon.
And the news said, Israel has gone in flight before the Philistines, and a great slaughter has been among the people; and your two sons are dead, the son of Levi, and Phinehas, and the ark of God.
So the king sent for Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, the priest, and all his father's house at Nob: and they all came to the king.
And now, my father, see, and see, the skirts of your robe in my hand; for when I have cut the skirts of your robe, I have not put you to death: see and see that there is no evil or uncontrolled in my hand: I did not sin against you, but you are pulling my life to take it.
But Christ is true as a son over his house, whose house we are, if we keep our hope and the glory of our hope to the end.
And he sent representatives to Abimelech secretly, saying, See, the son of Shelemiah and his brothers come to Shechem; and see, they make the town strong against you.
And when he had ended to come near the meal, he sent the people away,
And the servants of Saul said to him, See, the spirit of God is cruel to you.
And it came to pass after him, that a man of Beth-lehem was judged by Israel.
And there was a man named selection of Zebulun and Naphtali; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet; and laughing went with him.
And the Spirit of God came on Saul, when he heard these words, and his wrath was burning.
And the people sent twelve thousand men of the best men, saying, Go and attack the men of Jabesh-gilead with the sword, and the women and children.
Then the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Let him go and see the great power of his great power, and we will be able to give him trouble, and we will give to you one hundred pounds of silver.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and he went down to Ashkelon and overcame the thirty men, took their goods, and gave their clothing to those who gave the sense, and his wrath was lighted, and went up to his father's house.
How much more if the people had taken the food of their haters, which they had seen? was there not a great slaughter among the Philistines?
But his father and his mother did not see that it was the Lord's, that he had a desire for the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had rule over Israel.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit came to Saul, that David would take the harp and take it with his hands, so that it might have rest for Saul; for he was better and the evil spirit would be turned away from him.
And it came to pass, when they had made an end of feasting and drinking at Shiloh, the priest was seated on his seat by the door of the house of the Lord.
For you are not coming to a mountain that might be touched, and a burning fire and a storm and a storm and a storm;
But if you are not able to make it clear to me, you will give me thirty linen robes and thirty changes of clothing. And they said to him, Give your sense, that we may give ear to it.
And the angel of the Lord was not seen by man, and to his wife; and he was certain that it was the angel of the Lord.
And I said, I will not send them out from before you; but they will be in your sides, and their gods will be a snare to you.
And he said, You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest and they went away, and what have I more? how then say to me, What is your trouble?
And she took him up with her when she had taken him, with three oxen and an ephah of meal and a vessel of wine, and took him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh, and the boy was young.
So Saul was building a way to the Lord, and he was building altars to the Lord.
And the king was seated on his seat, as at other times, on the seat of the wall; and Jonathan got up, and Abner was seated by Saul's side, and David's place was wasted.
And he said to him, As the Lord lives, you are upright and good in my eyes; and so is your going out and your coming in with me in the army; and I have not seen my evil in you, for the day you came to me to this day, but you are not pleased with the lords.
And the men of Israel were troubled that day, for Saul had given orders to the people, saying, Cursed is the man who takes any food till it is evening, and I am lifted up on my haters. And no one of the people tasted food.
And he went in and made ready a young goat and made cakes of meal of an ephah of meal, and put the meat in a basket, and put it in a vessel, and took it to him under the tree and gave it to him.
For those who are holy and those who have made themselves holy, so that they may not be shamed for them, says the Lord.
And when the woman came to Saul and saw that he was greatly troubled, she said to him, See, your servant has given ear to you, and I have given my life to my life; I have given ear to your words which you have said to me.
And of the upright men are the strong food, because of the use of the desires of the heart, to the sense of good and evil.
Gilead is on the other side of Jordan: why did Dan be living in ships with ships? Asher was seated at the waters of the waters, and by his resting place he went down.
Now the town was near the Jebusites, and the day was far away. And the servant said to his master, Come, let us go and go to this town of the Jebusite, and let us be living in it.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said to them, This time, as far as the Philistines are watching, when I do evil, I am without blame.
And Saul and all the people who were with him came together and came to the fight, and saw that they were all cruel, with their swords in great shame.
And they said, Why, O Lord, the God of Israel, has it come to this day in Israel that one tribe is not of Israel?
And Shammah, the son of Kareah, took three hundred small foxes, and took the tail and the tail, and put a stick in the middle of the two tails.
Now Saul, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of God, fighting with the Philistines.
And Israel was waiting at Gibeah round about.
And when he came to the Jordan, he and the three hundred men who were with him were feeble and went after them.
And when he had given an end to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was put to the heart of David; and Jonathan loved him as his soul.
And he said to them, See, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will make an end with the children of Israel and the children of Judah, a new agreement;
And when they went away from there, they went on on the edge of the wall, and got away from there.
Now see, and take note of what you are to do: for evil is turned against our master and against all his house: for he is a man of Belial, that a man may not say to him.
For I will not send destruction on the nations which Joshua went away:
And it was said to them, The son of Jonathan has come here. So they went round the place and put in waiting for him all night in the town, saying, We will be waiting till the morning light, and we will put him to death.
Be glad in the Lord for ever; I say, joy.
And the sons of Benjamin did so, and took them wives after their number, of those who were dancing, and they went back and went back to their heritage, building the towns and living in them.
Who has become a priest not by the law of the flesh, but by the power of the evil-doer.
And Saul sent representatives to take David; and when they saw the words of the prophets, Samuel and Samuel were waiting for them, the Spirit of God was on the servants of Saul, and they were prophets.
But as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he went after them; and he took away the two kings of Midian, like Zebah and Zalmunna; and all the army were troubled.
And one of the people said to one of the people, Your father gave orders to the people, saying, Cursed is the man who takes food today today, and the people are feeble.
For God made a oath to Abraham, because he had no more a greater thing by whom he made an oath by himself:
And laughing sent to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have you to do with me, that you are attacking me in my land?
And Jesse made seven of his sons by Samuel, and Samuel said, The Lord has not put these things on these.
And Saul sent for the people, numbering them in flight, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And take their daughters to them for wives and their daughters to their sons, and worship their gods.
For the land which is given by the rain of the rain which is frequently on it, and gives fruit to the fruit for them, for whose sakes it is planted, is blessing from God;
Then the rest of the rulers and the people came down: and the Lord came down for me against the strong.
Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the east came together; and they went over and put up their tents in the valley of Jezreel.
But they took away the form of a servant, making the form of men.
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and put their destruction on the children of Israel on that day, twenty thousand men.
By which will we be made holy through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
And the number of every day was great, and with a strong hand overcame Jabin, king of Canaan, till they were put to death.
And when it was ninety years old, his eyes were fixed, so that he might not see.
And the number of the men of Israel, in addition to Benjamin, were four hundred thousand men of war; all these were men of war.
For the man of whom these things are said are to another tribe, and there is no man before the altar.
After the veil was the House which was named the holy place,
Saying, Truly I will give you blessing, and I will give you great numbers.
And the man got up to go, and his father-in-law went on on him, and he went back and was living there.
As says the story of the old men, says the words of evil-doers, and my hand is not on you.
And when Sisera came together all his war-carriages, even one hundred war-carriages of iron, and all the people who were with him, from the ends of the nations, at the river Kishon.
And he gave food to his wife, and gave food to all her sons and daughters.
And he came to Beth-el, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and to Beth-el, and to Mizpah; and he took Israel in all these places.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz, and the name of the captain of his army was Abner, the son of Ner, the father of Saul.
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give me bread of bread to the people who go after me: for they are feeble and I go after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And the light of God had not gone out, and Samuel had put down in the house of the Lord where the ark of God was.
And they said to the foolish, Come and be our captain, so that we may go against the children of Ammon.
And Samuel said, When you were little in your eyes, were you not the head of the tribes of Israel, and the Lord made you king over Israel?
But you have done well in my trouble.
And he said, What is the word that he has given you? I pray you, do not keep it from me: God does so to you, and more, if you keep back everything which he has said to you.
For to Abraham God, having made an oath by himself, he was able to make an oath by no greater word, saying,
And he said to his servant, Come and let us go to one of these places, and let us have the night in Gibeah or in Ramah.
To the captain of the church, and to the church of the first, who are recorded in heaven, and to God the judge of all; and to the spirits of the upright, who are made upright,
And the children of Judah made war against Jerusalem, took it and put it on the edge of the sword, and put the town on fire.
And he said to her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man comes up, and he is covered with a robe. And when Saul saw that it was Samuel, he put himself on his face to the earth and gave worship to him.
Why, from one who was given birth, and that of one who had been dead, as the stars of heaven, and as the sand which is by the sea, they are without number.
And Samuel saw Saul no longer till the day of his death; for Samuel was sorrowing over Saul, and the Lord was changing his mind that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Have you not turned away from yourselves? for it is useless for nothing, and it is not able to give up; for they are false.
And make an altar to the Lord your God, on the top of this high place, and take a second ox and make it for a burned offering, with the wood of the Asherah which you may cut down.
And after a time he went back to take her, and went away to see the dead bodies of the lion: and there was a swarm of bees in the dead bodies of lions and honey.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did what was right in his eyes.
And turning away from him, he said the same thing: and the people made answer to him after the first way.
And they gave the name of the place to the Lord, and there they gave offerings to the Lord.
For he who makes holy and those who are made holy are all of one: for he is not put to shame to say to them,
And she put him to sleep on her knees, and she sent for the men and cut off the hair of his head, and became his head, and his strength went away from him.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in Christ Jesus.
And Jotham went away and went in flight and went to Beer-sheba, and there he was living in fear of his brother Abimelech.
Which way he made clear to us, new and living, through the veil, which is his flesh;
And David got up early in the morning, and went out from the flock with a watchman, and took and went, as Jesse had given orders to him; and he came to the wall, as the army went out to the fight, crying out for the fight.
And the king said to the priests, Come back against the priests, and let the people of Edom come against the priests, and let the priests be put to death on that day, and put on the linen ephod.
So that your glory may be increased in Christ Jesus because of me.
And he said to him, O my lord, if the Lord is with us, why has the Lord been with us? and where are all his wonders which our fathers said to us, Did not the Lord send us up out of Egypt? But now the Lord has sent us away and let us go into the hands of Midian.
And the hand of the Lord was hard on the town of Ashdod, and he sent destruction on Ashdod and the country round about, and in the unwalled towns and in the fields and in the fields; and there came out a great mass of fear, and there was a great waste in the town.
And now you have knowledge, as well as the rest of the good news, that when I went away from Macedonia, there was no division with me in the word, but only you only.
And those who were in flight in Hormah, and those who were in addition to them,
And he said to God, Let not your wrath be burning against me, and I will say this once: let me make it clear to the wool of wool, let it be dry on the wool, and on all the earth let there be dew.
And David put away the goods from him on the hand of one who took care of the goods, and went to the first place, and came and got directions of his brothers.
And his mother made him a little robe, which she had given to him on the fixed time, when she went up with her husband, to make an offering for the peace-offerings.
So Jesus, so that he might make the people holy with his blood, without the door.
And David took the head of the Philistines and took it to Jerusalem, and put up his arms in his tent.
And the Lord was with him, and the Lord was with him, and let none of his words come to the earth.
And I will send a young man, saying to him, Go and get me the arrows.
And there went out a great man out of the tents of the Philistines, named Goliath, the Gittite, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And he said to the children of Israel, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I took Israel out of the land of Egypt, and I gave you salvation from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hands of all the kingdoms who were cruel to you.
See that you do not have the voice of the man of teaching: for if they do not get away from him, we will not be able to get away from him who sends him from heaven.
And early in the morning he got up early in the morning, and the young woman's father said, Let your heart be strong till the day is ended. And they took food.
And the old man said, Peace to you; only, all you have need of me, only in the wide place.
But we are not among those who are uncontrolled, but among those who have faith to the life of our souls.
And on the fifth day he got up early in the morning to go; and the young woman's father said to him, Take pleasure in yourself. And they were waiting for the day, and the two of them took their food.
And they said to Saul, See, the people have done evil against the Lord, in order that they may take food with the blood. And he said, You have been untrue, and have been a great stone to me this day.
I will take my bread and my water and my flesh, which I have put to death for my wool, and I will give to men whom I do not see where they are?
For everyone who takes away milk in the word of righteousness is a child, for he is a child.
And Jonathan went down, and his father and mother went to Timnah; and they came to the vine-gardens of Timnah, and there a young lion made a loud outcry against him.
Do not let your hearts be troubled, as in the day of trouble, in the day of testing in the waste land.
Then Samuel said to Saul, Go, and I will make clear to you what the Lord has said to me last night. And he said to him, Say on.
And all those who saw it said, There was no such acts or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt to this day: take note, take counsel, and say.
And to whom did he make an oath that they may not go into his rest, but to those who have not faith?
And he sent representatives through the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters of Jordan, and the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim were called together, and they took the waters of the Jordan as far as the Jordan.
For last, my brothers, be glad in the Lord; for you are to say the same things to you, even to me is not evil, but for you it is safe.
So that the copy of the things which are in heaven may be made clean with these things; but the things which are in heaven are better than these.
For if the word has been given by angels, he has become strong, and every sin and wrongdoing have been given to him for a reward.
And when they went in the direction of the waste land, the hater went after them, and they came out to see them.
And the servants of Saul said to him, This is what David has said.
And if they had been conscious of that which they came out, they might have a chance to come back.
Have nothing to do with a man's desire or a pride of pride, but in pride of mind every one is better than himself.
By faith Moses became great, and would not be named a son of the daughter of Pharaoh;
And David went from there to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother be with you, till I see what God will do for me.
And Saul said to his servants, O Benjamin, Give ear, O Benjamin; will the son of Jesse give you fields and vine-gardens? will he make you captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
And she said to him, My father, when you open your mouth to the Lord, do to me as it has gone out of your mouth, when the Lord has done for you the punishment of your haters, the children of Ammon.
And being full of righteousness through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
There were eighteen thousand men of Benjamin, all the men of war.
In which God, desiring to give to the seed of the undertaking of the undertaking of the undertaking of his purpose, made an oath,
And the children of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead and went to his place.
And he said to him, Far be it from me; you will not be put to death. See, my father will not do anything great or small, but that he will give it to me. Why then is my father veiled from me? It is not so.
For we have had news of good news to us, even as they did; but the word of hearing was not good for them, because it was not true by faith with them.
And Saul gave ear to the voice of Jonathan, saying, As the Lord lives, he will not be put to death.
And David said to Jonathan, See the day of the new moon, and let me be seated by the king, so that I may be kept in the field till the third day.
And the people said to Saul, Will Jonathan be put to death, who has done this great salvation in Israel? Far be it: the Lord is living, not a hair of his head falling to the earth, because he has done with God this day. So the people gave up Jonathan, so that he was not dead.
Then the Spirit of the Lord will come on you, and you will be prophets with them, and you will be turned into another man.
And Samuel took a lamb and gave it for a burned offering to the Lord; and Samuel was crying to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord gave ear to him.
And as for you, do not make a agreement with the people of this land: break down their altars. But you have not given ear to my voice: why have you done such a thing?
And our eyes were fixed on him, the head of the first, and the glory of faith, because of the joy which was given to him for the cross, and for the shame of shame, and seated at the right hand of God.
Then three thousand men went down to the rock of Etam, and said to the king, Do you not see that the Philistines are rulers over us? What is this that you have done to us? He said to them, As they did to me, so have I done to them.
If they say this to us, Get up till we come to you, and we will be in our place and will not go up to them.
And Samuel was waiting before the eyes of the Lord, and he was clothed with a linen ephod.
And again the third time, the name of the Lord came to Samuel, and he got up and said, Here I am, because you have been named me. Then he saw that the Lord had given the child a name.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See, I am doing a thing in Israel, when the ears of every one who has ears of hearing of it will be on his head.
Then the men of the town said to Joash, Take your son, that he may be put to death, because he has broken down the altar of Baal, and have cut down the Asherah, which was by it.
And I say to you, my true friend, help those women who have worked for me in the good news, and the rest of my neighbours, whose names are in the book of life.
And the chiefs of the Philistines went by hundreds, and thousands of thousands, and David, and his men, were on the back with him.
Let us go out to him outside the tent-circle, and let us be shamed.
And the woman came and said to her husband, A man of God came to me, and his face was like the face of the angel of God, very great; and I did not ask him where he was from, and he gave me no knowledge of his name.
So David went up from there, and was there in the strong place of En-gedi.
And the Lord said to the people of Israel, The people who are with you are too much for me to give the Midianites into their hands, or Israel, for fear against me, says, My hand has made me safe.
And when they were put to shame till they were put to shame, he did not open the doors of the room: and they took the key of the key to them, and saw that their lord had gone down dead on the floor.
And David took care of all that she had taken him and said to her, Go in peace into your house; I have given ear to your voice and have glory to your face.
And all the fighting-men got up and went all night, and took Saul and his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh and burned them there.
And they said to him, If you send the ark of the God of Israel, send it not away, but in any wise man give him a guilt offering, so that you may be made well, and it will be clear to you that his hand is not taken away from you.
And David said to him, Will you take me down to this band? And he said, Give me your oath by God; you will not put me to death or put me over to my lord, and I will send you down to this band.
This is what the Lord of armies has said: I have marked out what Amalek did to Israel, how he took himself against him on the way when he came up out of Egypt.
Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, the wife of David's wife, to Palti, the son of Laish.
And the vine said to them, Should I go away from my wine, who says God and man, and go to be honoured over the trees?
Whose voice was shaking the earth, but now he has said, I will not be moved by the earth only, but the heavens.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and gave worship to the Baals.
The Lord has taken new wars, overturning the doors of the attackers: the body-covers and the spear were not seen among forty thousand of Israel.
And he said to her, If you go with me, I will go; and if you do not go with me, I will not go.
And they took their bones and put them to death in the wood of Jabez, and without food for seven days.
By my desire and my hope, so that in nothing I will be put to shame, but in all things as ever, so Christ will be made great in my body, if it is by life or by death.
And you said to her, Get up before the door of the Tent, and when anyone comes and says to you, Is there any man here? you are to say, There is no one.
And she was bitter in soul and prayer to the Lord, weeping bitterly.
And David got up, and he and his men went with him, and overcame two hundred men of the Philistines; and David took their cords and gave birth to the children of the king: and Saul gave him Michal, his daughter, as his wife.
If, then, would they not have the right to be offered, because of them, having no part of the sin of sin, having been made clean?
And when the young men of David came, they gave orders to the sons of Nabal the Carmelite, and they stopped.
And the servant said to Saul again, See, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give it to the man of God, to give orders to us.
And when he came, he made a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the mountain, and he went before them.
And it came to the end of the meal at Shiloh, and the priest was seated in his seat by the door of the house of the Lord.
My heart is to the chiefs of Israel, lifting up their heritage among the people. Give praise to the Lord.
And he took the people down to the water: and the Lord said to the rod, Every man who goes after the water with his tongue, like a dog, will you take by himself, and let every man go on his knees to drink.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter for a wife.
For to me is Christ, and to death there is profit.
Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who came not up with the army of the Lord? for they had taken a great oath, when they were in Mizpah, so that every man would be put to death.
For whom the Lord has given love to the Lord, he gives punishment to every son whom he has taken.
For they are only a few days to us, as it seemed good to them, but he for our profit, that we may be in his holy position.
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, till I put your feet under your feet?
And the chiefs of Issachar, Deborah, came to the valley at his feet; and there was a great man in the divisions of the Reubenites.
And after ten days the Lord made the sinner's death, and he was dead.
And Saul said, Take the burned offering to me, and the peace-offerings. And he gave the burned offering.
Then all the evil-doers and the rest of those who went with David answered and said, Because they had not gone with us, we will not give them any of the goods which we have got up, but only every man his wife and his children, so that he may take them away and go away.
The trees have gone up to give oil over them, and they say to the olive-tree, You are wide over us.
And he took the tribe of Benjamin by their families, and the rest of the families was taken: and Saul, the son of Kish, was taken; and they were looking for him, but he was not seen.
And they said to him, We have come down to give you into the hands of the Philistines. And he said to them, Give me word, or you will come on me.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the tribe of Dan, and his name was Adam; and his wife was fertile and had no children.
Of whom we have a great word and hard sense to say, because you have been very hard.
And he said to them, See me, and do so; and, when I come to the outside of the tent-circle, it will be the same as I do.
And the land had rest for forty years, and the name of Othniel was Othniel.
The arms of the strong are broken, and the falling is clothed with strength.
And it was so; he got up early on the day, crushing the wool from the wool, and rubbing the drops of dew from the drops of water.
And he said to her, If they put me together with a cord, I will be like all men.
And David said to the Lord, Will I go after these thieves? will I go after them and overtake them or not? And the Lord said to him, Go after them, for you will overtake them and take away their food.
And Jonathan said again to the young man, Go quickly quickly, do not get up. And Jonathan's son got the arrows and gave them to his master.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
You had no pleasure in all the burned offerings and offerings for sin.
And he got up and went after his wife; and he came to the man and said to him, Are you the man who said to the woman? And he said, I am.
Now when Samuel was dead, all Israel had sorrow for him, and they had him put in the earth in Ramah, in the town of his town; and Saul had put out the readers of spirits and the readers of spirits from the land.
So that we may give praise to God for ever, to give praise to God.
And he said to them, If I come again, I will send destruction on this tower.
( For my father was fighting for you, and made his life sad, and gave you salvation from Midian;)
And Saul had knowledge of the voice of David, and said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, My voice, my lord, O king.
And David took the head of the Philistines and took it to Jerusalem, and put his instruments in his tent.
And the angel of the Lord said to Adam, Take care of all that I said to the woman.
And after that, he had a wife in the valley of birth, whose name was named by name.
And it came to pass, as Samuel had said to all Israel, and Israel went out against the Philistines to fight against the Philistines, and put up their tents in Aphek.
Be strong, and be men, O daughters of the Philistines, so that you may not go up to the work of the Hebrews, as they have done to you; be men and fight.
So let us take note of this; and if you say anything, God will make clear to you.
And as for the asses, for three days, do not put your heart on them, for they are seen. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not on you and on all your father's house?
And his father went down to the woman; and Jonathan, the son of Barachel, made a feast for the young men.
And on that day he made it a law and a law for Israel to this day.
And we see that they were not able to go in because of their faith.
And the children of the Hebrews went across the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul was still in Gilgal, and all the army went after him shaking.
And turning away, they put the little ones and the oxen and their goods before them.
And the five men went up to search out the land, and came in there, and took the image and the ephod and the images and the metal images, and the priest was waiting at the doorway of the doorway with the six hundred men of war.
And there came a messenger to Saul, saying, Come quickly and come; for the Philistines have overcome the land.
And falling down at his feet, said, Let me, my lord, be my servant; but let your servant say in your ears, and give ear to the words of your servant.
And the man said to him, I am he who came out of the army, and I went in flight today out of the army. And he said, How went the word, my son?
And when they took it, the hand of the Lord was against the town, and a very great fear, and he overcame the men of the town from the youngest to the oldest, causing the disease to come on them.
For the Lord will do to you as he said by me, and will let loose your kingdom from your hand, and give it to your neighbour David:
And no longer the priest's position to the people; but he who had made a meal offering, the servant of the priest came, and the flesh was burning, with a cord of three teeth in his hand;
And Saul said to his servants, O Benjamin, Give ear, O Benjamin; and to all of you, the son of Jesse, give fields and vine-gardens; let all of you give heads of thousands and captains of hundreds.
And he took his army and put it in three bands, and put an attack in the field; and when the people came out of the town, he got up and put on them.
And her lord got up in the morning, opening the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, the woman, his wife, was falling down at the door of the house with her hands on the doorstep.
And he took down the tower of Peniel, and put to death the men of the town.
So let us be full of fear, so that a word might be given to his rest, for any one of you would have come short of it.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Heli, the chief of the Levites, were put to death.
Even as for me, be it from me that I may give sin to the Lord in prayer to prayer for you: but I will give you teaching in the good and the right way.
And Jonathan went up on his hands, and on his feet, and his arms with him; and they came down before Jonathan, and his arms were put to death after him.
To whom it was said, Your seed will be from Isaac.
And he went to him, the children of the children of Ammon, and Amalek; and he went and overturned Israel and took the rest of palm-trees.
And the children of Benjamin came together out of the towns at Gibeah, to go out to fight against the children of Israel.
Now when the flame went up to heaven from the altar from the altar, the angel of the Lord went up in the flame of the altar: and man and his wife saw it, and falling on their faces to the earth.
But Sihon had no faith in Israel, to let him go through his land; and Sihon took all his people together, and they put up their tents in Jahaz; and he made war with Israel.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day and put themselves in position at Gibeah, as at the other times.
So the man went up with all his family to make offerings to the Lord, and to give effect to his word.
And the Philistines had news of the noise, and they said, What is the voice of a great cry in the tents of the Hebrews? And they saw that the ark of the Lord had come into the tent-circle.
Now the sons of Heli were sons of the Evil; they had no knowledge of the Lord.
Let the power of the fire be put out of the sword, and let the sword be stretched out from the edge of the sword, and be strong in war, turning away from the sword.
And if I say to the young man, See, the arrows are far away from you, for the Lord has sent you away.
For we are the circumcision, worshipping by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus, and have no fear in the flesh:
And David said, You are not to do so, my brothers, with what the Lord has given us, who has kept us safe, and gave up the band which came against us into our hands.
And the Philistines were fighting, and Israel was put to death, and every man went in flight into his tent; and there was a very great slaughter, and thirty thousand footmen were there.
And the king said, You will certainly be put to death, you and your father's house.
And the two pillars took away the two pillars, on which the house was fixed, and the one with his right hand and one with his left;
And while she was still waiting before the Lord, she saw her mouth.
And after she had taken him, she took him with her, with three oxen and three measures of meal, and a bottle of wine, and she took him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh. And the child was as well as a young child.
The Lord has done to you as he said by me: the Lord has taken the kingdom out of your hand, and has given it to your neighbour, even to David.
And Jesse took a ass with bread, and a skin of wine, and one young goat, and sent them to Saul by the hand of his son David.
And David came to the two hundred men, so that they might not go after David, whom they had made to be in the valley or in the valley; and they went out to see David and to the people who were with him. And when David came near to the people, he gave them rest.
And they went away from the Lord, worshipping Baal and Ashtaroth.
And he said to David, I have knowledge that you are good in my eyes as an angel of God: only the chiefs of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us into the fight.
For I, your servant, have put to death the lion and a bear; and the Philistines will be like one of them: I will go now and take away the shame of the people: for who is this the first of the Philistines, who has gone against the army of the living God?
And they were to be tested by them to see if they would give ear to the orders of the Lord, which he gave to their fathers by the hand of Moses.
And he says in another place, You are a priest for ever, after the order of Malchijah.
And the hand of the children of Israel went on, and made them hard for Jabin, king of Canaan, till they had taken away King Jabin of Canaan.
And the boy had knowledge of nothing; only Jonathan and David had knowledge of the thing.
And he took the people and put them in three baskets and put themselves in a field and saw the people coming out of the town; and he got up against them and overcame them.
And he said, The seventy kings, having their fingers and toes cut off, put up the rods under my table: as I have done, so has God given to me. And they took him to Jerusalem, and he was dead there.
And a man got up and went after his wife, and came to the man and said to him, Are you the man who gave birth to the woman? And he said, I am.
And wisdom said to the responsible men of Gilead, Have you not hated me and put me out of my father's house? why have you come to me now when you are in trouble?
And when she had weaned him, she took him with her, with three oxen and an ephah of meal and a bottle of wine, and took him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh, and the child was young.
So Jesus, so that he might make the people holy through his blood, having been kept outside the door.
And the hand of the children of Israel was stronger and more than Jabin, king of Canaan, till they had given destruction to Jabin, king of Canaan.
And you have come up against my father's house this day, and have put to death his sons, sixty men, on one stone, and made Abimelech, the son of his servant-girl, king over Shechem, because he is your brother.
And all the responsible men of Israel came together and went to the town of God to Ramah.
Do not put away your faith, which has great reward.
See, if it goes up by the way of his land to Beth-shemesh, he has made this great evil to come on us: but if not, then we will see that his hand has not put us to death, and it has come to us that this has been done to us.
But Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for David, and it was said to Saul,
By faith Isaac gave blessing to Jacob and Esau;
Saying, This is the blood of the agreement which God gave you.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not go back with you, because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, and the Lord has put you away from being king over Israel.
I sent him so much that when you see him again, you may be glad, and that I may be the less sad.
I am in danger of the mark, to the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
To whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all the seed, to the first, the King of righteousness, and the king of Salem, which is the King of peace.
Let the love of the brothers be on their hearts.
For this is the agreement which I will make with the children of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws into their hearts and put them on their hearts; and I will be to them a God, and they will be my people.
A holy man is honoured in all, and the bed is full of envy: for God will judge those who are untrue to him.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
For which of the angels said to him, You are my son, I have been your father. And again, I will be a father to him, and he will be my son.
And the heart of the priest was glad; and he took the ephod and the images and the images and went in among the people.
And the Lord will give Israel up with you into the hands of the Philistines; and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me: the Lord will give the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
And he had two wives, the name of one, Anna, and the name of the other country; but she had no children.
But if there is no wrong, let fire come out from him, burning up the people of Shechem, and the town of Ramah; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the town of Horonaim, and get up against Abimelech.
And he said to his servants, See, you see that the man is troubled: why then have you taken him to me?
And you will say, Because of this, when the Lord has given destruction and Zalmunna to my hand, I will make your flesh bitter with the thorns of the waste land and with thorns.
And the day came to the town of Jebus, and the day went down, and the young man said to his lord, Come, let us go to this town of the Jebusite, and let us take the night.
And see, a man went after him, and he went out to see him, and said to him, Come, and I will make you see the man you are looking for. And when he came into her tent, be seen as a dead, and the nail in his houses.
And the angel of the Lord came to him, and said to him, The Lord is with you, you who are strong fighters.
And they cut off his head and took off his goods, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, preaching the good news in the houses of their false gods and the people.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble ( for the people were troubled), then the people kept themselves secretly in the holes and in the holes and in the rocks and in holes and in holes.
Give ear, O kings; give ear, O rulers: I will make a song to the Lord; I will make a song to the Lord, the God of Israel.
And the responsible men of the people said, What do we do to the rest of the women? for the women have been cut off from Benjamin.
And he said to them, I have a request, that you would give me the rings of his goods. For they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
And if it is not without the taking of the oath,
But his sons have not gone in his ways; they have given themselves to profit, they have taken money, and have no respect for what is right.
And the Lord said to him, Peace be to you: fear not: you will not be put to death.
For every head of the high priest who has been taken by men has been given to God, to make offerings and offerings for sin,
And the Spirit of the Lord went away from Saul, and the spirit of the Lord was troubled by the Lord.
For this cause, my dear brothers and my desire for you, have been my joy and a crown, so that you may be kept in the Lord, my dear friend.
And the children of Israel said to the king, Rule over us, you and your sons and your sons, for you have given us up from Midian.
But the chiefs of the Philistines were angry with him, and they said to him, Send the man back, so that he may go back to his place where you have given him; but he will not go down with us into the fight, so that he may not go down with us in the fight. And what would this man make himself good to his lord? is it not with the heads of these men?
And I say to you, my brothers, that you undergo this word of comfort: for I have been writing to you in a small way.
And she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me: give me two months so that I may go wandering on the mountains and make a grief over my virgin, I and my friends.
And she had a wife in Shechem, and she gave birth to a son named Abimelech.
And the spirit of the Lord was to Saul, and he was seated in his house, and his spear in his hand, and David was playing with the hand.
And Saul said to Michal, Why have you tricked me, and let my hater go away? And Michal said to Saul, Because he said to me, Let me go, or I will put you to death.
And the Lord made sport of Sisera, and all his war-carriages, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before destruction; and when Sisera got down from his chariot, he went in flight on his feet.
And he said to their father, Zebah and Zalmunna, What sort of men were they to whom you put to death at Tabor? And they said, They were like you; one was like the sons of a king.
And Saul got up and went down to the waste land of Ziph, and with him three thousand of Israel, looking for David in the waste land of Ziph.
And when you go away from there, go farther, and come to the great tree of Elam, and let three men go up to Beth-el, one taking three young goats, and three cakes of bread, and one taking a bottle of wine.
And see, and see, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dancing, then come out of the vine-gardens and take away every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Come with me into my land, and let us fight against the Canaanite, and I will go with you in the same way; and Simeon went with him.
All the trees have said to the thorns, Come and be king over us.
And the oxen went straight on the road to Beth-shemesh; and they went on the way, straight as they went; and they did not turn to the right hand or to the left: and the lords of the Philistines went after them as far as the edge of Beth Shemesh.
Now the rest of the earth has been cut off from the destruction of what is moved, and what has been made, so that the things which are not overcome may be stopped.
And Obed-edom, the son of Obed, went with his brothers and went to Shechem. And the people of Shechem took heart in his coming.
In the most holy place, and in the holy Tent, which the Lord has put up, and not man.
To which of the angels said he in any time, You are my Son, this day have I given you birth? and again I will be to him a father, and he will be to me a Son.
If there is any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if there is a part of the Spirit, if one has mercy and mercy,
But if you will not give ear to the voice of the Lord, but will be turned against his words, and the hand of the Lord will be on you and your fathers.
And when he had endured, he took the oath.
And they said to him, We have come to take you and give you into the hands of the Philistines. And the son of David said to them, Give me your word and give me word, that you will not put me to death.
And they said to one another, Who did this thing? So they made search and questioning him, and said, This is what Joash did.
Have they not been seen? have they not taken the goods of the goods? A girl, two young men, are to be used for every man: to Sisera, of red robes, and of coloured robes made of needlework, of coloured robes of needlework, on the backs of the goods.
And it was said to them, I and my people, with the children of Ammon, was fighting against me; and I sent you, but you did not keep me from their hands.
And the Hebrews went across the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul was still in Gilgal, and all the people went after him shaking.
And Saul took him three thousand men of Israel, and there were two thousand men with Saul in Michmash and on Mount Beth-el, and a thousand men with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the rest of the people sent every man to his tent.
For he was still in the body of his father, when he came to see him.
For this reason the Lord, the God of Israel, says, Let your house and your father's house go before me for ever. But now the Lord says, Be far from me: for those who give me honour will be honoured, and those who make sport of me will be turned to shame.
The brothers who are with me send their love to you. All the saints send you their love, even those of Caesar's house.
And he said to all Israel, Be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do what is good in your eyes.
And the thorns say to the trees, If you put on me king over you, come and get safe in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and let the cedars of Lebanon be burned.
See, the days are coming, and I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house, so that there may not be an old man in your house.
And Saul made request to the Lord, but the Lord gave him no answer by dreams or by the Urim or by the prophets.
And when I blow the horn, I and all who are with me, you will blow the horns round the whole tent-circle, saying, For the Lord and for the rod.
And Samuel said to all the people, See the man whom the Lord has chosen, that there is no one like him among all the people? And all the people said, May the king be living.
And it was hard for the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw that there was a man who was a strong man, or a man of strength, he took care of him.
And on the fourth day they got up early in the morning, and he got up to go away; and the father's father said to his father-in-law, Give comfort to your heart with a bit of bread, and then go your way.
But the fig-tree said to them, Is it possible for me to take away my profit and my good fruit and go to the place of the trees?
And when he came, there was a man who had a dream to his neighbour, and he said, See, I had a dream, and there was a cake of barley in the tents of Midian, and came to the tents and put it on it, turning it upside down, so that the tent was flat.
And the children of Israel had pity on Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And Saul saw that the Lord was with David, and that Saul's daughter Michal was dear.
And while she was still praying before the Lord, she saw her mouth.
So David took the spear and the water-water-vessel from off Saul's head, and they went away: and no one saw, and no one was seen, for all of them were sleeping, because the deep sleep of the Lord had come on them.
And they said, There is a heritage for the tribe of Benjamin, and there is no division in Israel.
And David said to the Philistines, You have come to me with the sword and with a spear and with a breastplate: but I come to you in the name of the Lord of armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have made sport of.
Let not my lord put his heart to this man of deceit, for the name of the man of the sinner, for his name's sake, and his name of the sinner. And I, your servant, did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent.
And he let them go into the town; and they overcame the town with the sword; but they let the man go and all his family.
And David said, Will the men of Keilah take me and my men into the hands of Saul? And the Lord said, They will keep you safe.
Out of Ephraim came down those whose root was in Amalek; and after you, Benjamin, among your people: out of Machir came down captains, and from Zebulun those who were with the captains of the army.
And they said to him, No, but we will put your yoke on you and give you into their hands, and we will not put you to death. And they put him in two bands and put him up from the rock.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went away to his place.
And Samuel took a lamb and gave it for a burned offering to the Lord; and Samuel was crying to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord gave him an answer.
Do not be uncontrolled in your hearts, as in the day of trouble; in the day of testing in the waste land.
And Samuel said to all Israel, See, I have given ear to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.
And Saul put on clothing, put on other clothing, and went with two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, Give me a request by the spirit, and give me up to you who is my name.
See, this day your eyes have seen how the Lord has given you into my hand into my hand in the hole, and some sent for me to put you to death: but I said, I will not put my hand on my lord, for he is the Lord's selection.
And Jonathan went up on his hands and on his feet, and his arms after him; and they came down before Jonathan, and his arms put to death after him.
So that your joy may be increased in Christ Jesus for me again.
And now, go back and go in peace, and do no evil in the eyes of the chiefs of the Philistines.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you troubled me, to give me up? And Saul said, I have a great trouble, and the Philistines are fighting against me; God has turned away from me, and has not given me any more, or by the hand of the prophets or of the dream; and I have sent for you to let me see what I do.
And he said to God, If you will keep Israel by my hand, as you say,
And the men were waiting for fear, and they went in flight on the town of Gibeah; and the people were waiting for themselves, and all the town came to the sword.
And David said to him, To whom do you come from? And he said, Where are you from? And he said, I am a servant of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master went away from me for three days before I was ill.
And if they had been in mind of that country, they would have a chance to come back.
What then? in every way, or in the true way, or in the truth, Christ has been given; and I am glad and will be glad.
Now on the third day, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites came to Ziklag on the right day, and put down their tents and burned it with fire.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of spoilers, and they took their goods and gave them into the hands of their haters round about; and they were not able to be able to be able before their haters.
But I have joy in the Lord greatly, so that now you have been living in your mind for me, in which you have been thought, but you have no part.
And the children of Ammon came together and put up their tents in Gilead. And the children of Israel came together and put up their tents in Mizpah.
Give ear to those who are authority over you, and be under your authority; for these are watching for your souls, so that they may do this, that they may do this, and not cries of grief, for this is nothing to you.
So that you may be judge of and have knowledge of the things which are greater, so that you may be clean and without sin for the day of Christ.
And when he had made an end of offering the tax, he sent away the people who were the tax.
And the Spirit of the Lord turned away from Saul, and a spirit of grief from the Lord was troubled.
And Saul said to David, Happy be you, my son David: you are to do great things, and you will be overcome. So David went on his way, and Saul went back to his place.
And he went to the house of his father at Ophrah, and he put to death his brothers, the sons of war, seventy persons, on one stone; but Jotham, the youngest, the son of Jerub-baal, was left; for he kept himself safe.
And they were their saviour, and all their days were under the fear of death.
And she said to her servants, Go before me; for I will go after you, but she gave no news to her husband.
God gives grace to us, so that they may not be made complete without us.
And they took away the gods of the strange people from among them, worshipping the Lord, and was sad with the evil of Israel.
And she took it before Saul, and before his servants, and they had food; and they got up and went away that night.
And Saul put out his spear and said, I will make David take care of David to the wall. But David took him twice.
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Do not keep quiet for us from crying to the Lord our God, and he will keep us safe from the Philistines.
So that the children of Israel might have knowledge of war, at the least of those who had no knowledge of it.
And the Lord was seen in Shiloh, for the Lord made himself clear to Samuel in Shiloh, as the Lord had said. And the word of Samuel came to all Israel.
And the children of Israel turned back on the children of Benjamin, and overcame them with the edge of the sword, all the towns and cattle and all that they had seen: and all the towns which they had seen they put on fire.
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit at my right hand till I put your feet under your feet?
And he said to them, Because you have done this, I will take punishment on you, and then I will be quiet.
And as she was going on her way, her husband gave an account of her father's field: and when she was moved on her ass, Caleb said to her, What is your trouble?
And he said to Samuel, Go to bed; and it will be, if he says to you, Give ear to the word of the Lord for your servant's ears. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
Give orders to your rulers and be under the authority, for they are watching over your souls as those who are to give account, so that they may do this with joy and not cries, for this will be nothing for you.
And Jacob gave blessing to all the sons of Joseph, and gave worship to all the children of Joseph.
One day Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who had his arms, Come and let us go to the tents of the Philistines who are on the other side; but he did not give word to his father.
And the Lord was with him, and the Lord was with him, and let none of his words come to the earth.
And the son of Joash came back from the fight before the sun.
And Samuel said, Why are you requesting me, seeing that the Lord has gone away from you and has gone over to your brother?
Which we have put up as a mark of the soul, strong and right, and go into the veil;
And he put on the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of the Lord, cutting down fifty thousand men; and the people were weeping because the Lord had given the people a great slaughter.
And you may do with me the mercy of the Lord only, and I will not be put to death.
And the land had rest for forty years, and it was Othniel, the son of Kenaz.
For this cause the Lord, the God of Israel, says, I have said that your house and your father's house are to go before me for ever. But now the Lord says, I will not be far from me: for those who give me honour will be honoured, and those who make sport of me will be turned to shame.
And the chiefs of the Philistines had come together to make a great burned offering to Dagon their god, and to be glad, and said, Our god has given our haters Jonathan into our hands.
And going up from there, he came to the town of Phanuel, and said the same thing to the men of that place. And they said to him, As the men of Succoth had said.
Let your seat be clear to all men, for the Lord is near.
For you have need of faith, so that the will of God may be given effect.
Do not go from here, till I come to you, and take my offering and put it before you. And he said, I will be waiting till you come.
And after him was Abdon, the son of Shelomoth, the Pirathonite, who was responsible for Israel;
You have not been against the blood of blood, but against sin.
And when it was ninety years old, his eyes were fixed, and he was not able to see.
And by faith, with Sarah, he took the power of the first world, because he had given thought to the words of faith.
And the Philistines went on on Saul and on his sons; and they put to death Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchijah, the sons of Saul.
And Abigail came quickly, taking two hundred cakes, and two cups of wine, and five sheep ready, and five measures of dry grain, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred cakes of dry figs, and put them on asses.
And his master said to him, We will not go into the town of a strange man who is not of the children of Israel, but we will go over to the town of Gibeah.
And he got up an army and overcame Amalek and gave Israel out of the hands of those who took away their goods.
And the secret men were living with her in an inner room, and she said to him, The Philistines are on you, O Philistines; and he will take away the cord as a bit of soap, and his power will not be seen.
And when he came to the Jordan, he went over with the three hundred men who were with him, tired and going after them.
And the Lord said to the children of Israel, Am I not free from the Egyptians, or from the Amorites, or from the children of Ammon, or from the Philistines?
And he made a request for water, and gave him milk; and she gave him milk in the field.
For it is impossible for them to give glory to them, and to take part of the grace of heaven, and to give part in the Holy Spirit.
Those whose root is in Amalek came out from Ephraim, after you, O Benjamin, among your people: the people of the land came down from Machir, and those with the rod of the Rab-shakeh came out of Zebulun.
And his brothers went down, and all the family of his father, lifting him up and put him up, and put him in their place, in the town of the town of his father, in the resting-place of his father, for twenty years he was put to death.
All times long for me, when you make my requests for you with joy,
In those days the Philistines took their tents in war against Israel, and said to David, You are certain that you and your men go out into the tent-circle.
And he made himself low and gave himself to death, even to the death of the cross.
And the number of them were three hundred men, and all the people were bent on their knees to drink water.
And he went to the house of his father in Ophrah, and he put to death his brothers, the sons of Baal, seventy men, on one stone; but Jotham, the youngest, the son of Baal, went out of his place, because he was waiting for himself.
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the son of Reuel, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of the Lord in Shiloh, put on an ephod; and they did not see that Jonathan was gone.
And the gold plate, and the ark of the agreement, plated with gold, was the gold pot which had manna, and the rod of Aaron which was shining, and the tables of the agreement;
So take care for yourselves, take no wine or strong drink, and do nothing unclean.
Do not take care of your servant for one of the daughters of evil, for out of the wealth of my sorrow and sorrow I have said till now.
In order that you may be upright and upright, O children of God, in the middle of a twisted and evil generation, among whom you are shining as the stars of the earth.
And three thousand men of Judah went down to the top of the rock, and said to the king, Do you not see that the Philistines are ruling over us? What is this that you have done to us? And he said to them, As they did to me, so I have done to them.
And Saul was talking with the words of Saul, and Saul became a king to David for ever.
By the teaching of the baptism of baptism, putting on of the hands of the dead, from the dead, and from the eternal judge.
And Joram, the son of Joash, was dead in a good old age, and was put to death in the resting-place of his father Joash, in the place of the house of the Rechabites.
And when they got up early in the morning, they saw their faces of Dagon on his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord, and the head of Dagon and the hands of his hands were cut off on the doorstep, and the base of the house of Dagon was turned to him.
And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner was the father of Abner, was the son of Eleasah,
So that the children of Israel had knowledge of war, teaching those who had not seen it before.
But my God will give freely all your need for his wealth in Christ Jesus.
And they gave the name of the place to the Lord, and they gave offerings to the Lord.
For you yourselves have knowledge of the things which are used in the past, that in the first way of the good news, when I went away from Macedonia, there was no division with me in the word, but only you only.
And the Lord sent you in the way, and said, Go, and you will put an end to the sinners and the Amalekites, till they are complete.
Being better than the angels is greater than the angels, as his heritage was greater than they.
And he took him into his house and gave food to the asses; and they washed their feet and took food and drink.
And Abigail went quickly and went on the ass, and five of her young women who went at her feet; and she went after the servants of David, and was to him for a wife.
And from Benjamin there were five thousand men and twenty thousand men, besides the men of Geba.
And when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, went in flight to David at Keilah, he went down with an ephod in his hand.
And the man of yours, whom I will not cut off from my altar, will give food to your eyes and sorrow to your heart; and all the increase of your house will be put to death in the flower of their days.
And I took you from the hand of Egypt and from the hand of all your haters, driving them out from before you, and I gave you their land.
And when the Philistines had news, they said, What is the voice of this great cry in the tents of the Hebrews? And they saw that the ark of the Lord came into the tent-circle.
And be full of the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
For we have become friends of Christ, if we have the time of faith to the end.
The kings came and made war; and the kings of Canaan made war at the waters of Megiddo, and they took no goods of silver.
And he said to him, O my Lord, how am I to give salvation to Israel? See, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And Samuel said, Why are you questioning me, and the Lord has turned away from you?
For this reason we are to give more attention to the things which were given to us, so that we might not be turned away.
Let your seat be clear to all men, for the Lord is near.
Seeing that some time had come into it, and those who had the first news did not come in because of the word,
Go now, I pray you, and make search for yourself, and take a search, and take note of the place where his feet are, and who has seen him there: for he seems to me that I am false in waiting for him.
And say, Why, O Lord, the God of Israel, has this been in Israel for ever, from Israel?
And they said to him, Say sharp words. And he said, The Sibbecai and the captain of the law did not say what is right. So they took him and put him to death at the Jordan across the Jordan, and there was forty-two thousand in that time.
And they were a number of priests, on account of their purpose from death.
And the children of Israel went from there, every man to his father and his family, and every man went out to his heritage.
Now when the flame went up to heaven from the altar, the angel of the Lord went up in the flame of the altar, and the man and his wife were looking on, and they went on their faces to the earth.
And David said to him, What have I done, and what have you done in me your servant from the day I have been before you till this day, so that I may not go and fight against the haters of my lord the king?
And he sent his name Zebulun and Asher, and went up with ten thousand men of war, having got part of his company.
Give ear, O kings, give ear, you rulers: it is I who will make a song to the Lord; I will make a song to the Lord, the God of Israel.
And Judah went to the Canaanites who were living in Hebron, and the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba; and they overcame Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai and Talmai.
And Saul and his men went to search for them, and they gave news to David, and he went down to the rock in the waste land of Judah; and Saul had news and went after help after David the waste land.
You have not been against the blood of blood, but against sin.
And early in the morning the men of the town got up early in the morning and saw the altar of Baal and the holy image which was by it, and the second ox was offered on the altar which had been made.
Because of the things which have been given to the saints, than to take pleasure in the desires of sin for a time;
For all those who make holy and those who are made holy are all from one; for so he is not shamed to give them their brothers.
So let us go into the rest, so that no one may be turned to the same ways of the word.
And they took two chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they put to death at the rock of Oreb and like Zeeb, and went after Midian; and they went after Midian, and made the chiefs of Oreb and Zeeb to go on on the other side of Jordan.
But she did not go up, for she said to her husband, When the child is a child, I will send him before the Lord, and he will be there for ever.
And you have no memory of the comfort which you have given to you, my son, my son: do not give thought to the training of the Lord, or be troubled when you are angry with him.
But the things which we have got, let us go by the same rule, let us take the same mind.
And the fig-tree said to them, Is it possible for me to go away from my sweet condition and my good fruit, and go to the place of the trees?
And they said to the Lord, Is there still a man to come here? And the Lord said, See, he has taken his place in secret.
And the chiefs did not come to the end of Israel; and when it came to the end, when it came to the end, there was a mother in Israel.
And Saul said to his servants, Give me now a man who is able to do well, and give him to me.
And every priest is to keep his work every day of his work, and have a regular offering for ever, to keep away from sin.
And she said to him, Give me a blessing, for you have given me the south land: give me the springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
And the Philistines were fighting, and Israel was put to flight; every man went in flight to his tent; and there was a very great slaughter, and thirty thousand footmen came to Israel.
And the second story sent representatives to the king of the children of Ammon, saying,
Saul was living in the farthest part of the earth, under the side of the pomegranate; and the men who were with him were about six hundred men.
And David said to Abiathar, I was certain that day, when the Edomites were there, he would say to Saul, I have seen the death of all the people of your father's house.
And the Philistines were cruel to Saul and his sons; and the Philistines put to death Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchijah, the sons of Saul.
And to the church of the oldest, who are recorded in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the upright made perfect;
If you will be in fear of the Lord, and be his servant, and give ear to his voice, and do not make the mouth of the Lord be angry with you, you and the king who is king over you, be the Lord your God.
And now he has the greater part of the grace which he has given, and how much more is the use of a holy agreement which is given by the Lord,
Because you did not give ear to the voice of the Lord, you did not put the wrath of his wrath on Amalek. So the Lord has done to you what you have done this day.
But they gave thought to the Lord their God, driving them into the hands of Sisera, the captain of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab; and they were fighting against them.
This will be the sign for you, which will come on your two sons, on the twenty-fourth of the month, on the twenty-fourth of Phinehas: in one day they will come to death.
If they say to us, Get up till we have come to you; then we have come to our place and do not go up to them.
And David was greatly troubled, for the people had said to stone him, for the soul of all the people was bitter, every man for his sons and his daughters; and David himself made himself strong in the Lord his God.
And the children of Elon, the town of Elon, died, and was put to rest in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
But he would not, and said, I will not take food. But his servants, with the woman, made him strong; and he gave ear to their voice. So he got up from the earth and took his seat on the bed.
And they took their daughters to their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons and served their gods.
And God said to Samuel, Go and sleep; if he says to you, Say, Give word, O Lord, for your servant is hearing. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And the children of Dan put up for themselves the pictured image, and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh; he and his sons were priests for the tribe of Dan till the time of the fate of the land.
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take one of the servants with you, and get up and go looking for the asses.
For we have come into the rest of those who have faith, as he said, As I have made a oath in my wrath, if they come into my rest, though the work was complete from the earth.
And they got up early; and about the spring of the day, Samuel sent Saul to the top of the house, saying, Up, and I will send you away. And Saul got up and they went out from them, he and Samuel.
And Zebulun did not take away the people of the land, or the people of Sela; but the Canaanites were living among them, and became forced to work.
Now there was an old man coming from the field in the evening, and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim; and he was living as a foreigner in the town of Benjamin. ( Now the people of the place were Benjamin.)
Where your fathers have tested me, and have seen my works,
Then the woman quickly went running and told her husband, and said to him, See, the man has come to me that day.
And all that generation came to their fathers, and another generation came after those who had no knowledge of the Lord and the work which he had done to Israel.
In that year they crushed and crushed the children of Israel; for eighteen years they crushed all the children of Israel on the other side of Jordan, in the land of the Amorites in Gilead.
How are we to give for wives for them, seeing that we have made an oath by the Lord that we will not give our daughters to wives?
And he built an altar to the Lord there, and gave it to the Lord, to this day, in Ophrah of the wife of Abiezer.
Then Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what will we take the man? for the bread is gone in our vessels, and there is no present for the man of God. What have we?
And turning round from him to another, he said this, and the people gave him word as the first word.
If they say this to us, Be waiting till we come to you; then we will be quiet in our place, and not go up to them.
And on the fourth day they got up early in the morning, and when he got up to go, the father of the young woman said to his daughter-in-law, Keep your heart with a bit of bread, and then go on.
And the wife of Gilead gave birth to his sons; and when his wife's sons were grown, they gave birth to laughing and said to him, You are not to have a heritage in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman.
Without father and without mother, having no family lists of days or the end of life, but is like the Son of God, as a priest for ever.
He will keep the feet of his saints, but the evil-doer will be cut off in the dark, because a man will not be able to overcome him.
And they gave to him seventy shekels of silver out of the house of Baal, and Abimelech went with them, and they went after him.
But the children of Israel had pity on Benjamin and their brothers, and said, This day is cut off from Israel.
And he gave him the seat of Ziklag that day: for this is the sign for the kings of Judah to this day.
And Abimelech, the son of Ahitub, took his name, and went running away after David.
And the Lord took judges and gave them salvation from the hands of those who were cruel to them: but they would not give ear to them.
And when the ark of the agreement of the Lord came into the tent-circle, all Israel gave a loud cry, and the earth was increased.
And some of the Hebrews went over Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul was still in Gilgal, and all the people went after him shaking.
And Samuel went after Saul, and Saul gave worship to the Lord.
And Saul said to him, O young man, of what are you? And David said, I am the son of your servant, the son of Jesse.
And all the people got up as one man, saying, We will not go to his tent, or let us go into his house.
Now when Saul had news that David was seen, and the men who were with him, Saul was seated in the town of Gibeah, under the scale of Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were waiting for him.
And Abishai said to David, God has shut up your haters this day into your hands: now I will send him through with my spear to the earth, and there will be no need for a second time.
And David went out and went out with a fight against the Philistines and overcame them, and they went running away from his face.
And when all the men of Shechem had news of it, they went into the strong place of the house of Eling-place.
And they came to the house of God at Shiloh, and they kept their tents before him till evening, crying and weeping, saying,
And there was no saviour, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no use with any man; and it was in the valley which was in the valley of Beth-rehob, and they made the town and living there.
And now, take your place and see this great thing which the Lord will do in your eyes.
And David went up from there, and took place in the strong place of En-gedi.
And Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for David; and they gave news to Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And of these beasts whose blood is offered for sin, into the holy place of the holy priest, they are burned outside the tent-circle.
So God overcame that day, as Jabin, king of Canaan, before the children of Israel.
And if they will be put to death, to make them new again to change their hearts, so that they may see the name of the Son of God and put him to shame.
But when they were in trouble, they went away, and went by the place of the false gods, from which he had come from. And he came to the point of deceit.
Now this man went up from his town year by year to give worship and peace-offerings to the Lord of armies in Shiloh, where the sons of Heli, the chief, the Levite, and Phinehas, were priests to the Lord.
Now in those days the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, and said to David, You are certain that you are to go out with me in the army, you and your men.
And they were a wall to us by night and day, as we were taking care of the sheep.
For where there is a agreement, the death of the evil-doer is to be in need.
And the Philistines came together and went and put up their tents in Dothan; and Saul got up all Israel together, and they put up their tents in Gilboa.
And he said to his men, The Lord has said that I am not to do this thing to my lord, the Lord's selection, to put out my hand against him, for he is the king of the Lord.
And on that day he gave orders for Baal, saying, Let the god of Baal come against him, because he has broken down his altar.
And he said to her, What is his opinion? And she said, An old man is coming up, and he is clothed in a robe. Then Saul saw that it was Samuel, and falling on his face to the earth, he gave his face to the earth.
And he said to her, Give me a little water, for I am thirsty. And she made a bottle of milk and gave him a drink and covered him.
Why did you not give ear to the voice of the Lord, but have done evil in the eyes of the Lord?
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, bread to the people who are with me, for they are feeble, so that we may go after them, and we may go after them, and put the kings of Midian.
And the children of Israel send men among all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What evil has come to you?
And they went with the chiefs of Gilead, and all the people made him their ruler: and they gave orders to the Lord in Mizpah all his words.
And why do you make your hearts hard as the Egyptians and Pharaoh's heart hard? do they not, when he has taken his face on them and send them away, and they go?
And the chiefs of Issachar, Deborah, and Issachar and Elead, were sent to the valley, for the divisions of the children of Reuben were in great hearts.
Do the owners of Keilah put me in his hand? does Saul come down as your servant has news? May the Lord, the God of Israel, say, Make clear to your servant. And the Lord said, He will come down.
Saul was thirty years old when he became king, and he ruled over Israel for forty-two years.
And she said to him, I will go with you, but at this time the salvation will not be given to you; for a woman will be given into the hands of a woman. Then she got up and went with her, and went with him.
Do not number your servant for the evil woman, for from the wealth of my outcry and my wrath have I said this to this end.
And they went out into the field, and took their vine-gardens, crushing the grapes, and went into the house of their gods, and went into the house of their gods, and took food and drink and cursed Abimelech.
Who by faith overcame kingdoms, who did righteousness, and gave effect to the word of the lion,
And David said to his servants, Put on every man his sword, and let every man put his sword on every man; and David was armed with his sword, and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred men went after the goods.
And the men of Israel went in flight, and Benjamin came to death with the sword of the men of Israel, about thirty persons: for they said, Truly they are put to death before us as in the first war.
For we have not a high priest who may not be touched with the feeling of our diseases; but one who has been in all points is in the same way as we are, still without sin.
So they turned their backs before the men of Israel into the waste land: but the war went after them, and those who came out of the towns put them to destruction in the middle of it.
Now to God and our Father be the glory of the world for ever. So be it.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw a strong man or a man, he took him to him.
So that my chains might be seen in Christ in all the public parts and in the other places.
Now while Saul was still talking to the priest, the fear of the Philistines was increased more and more; and he said to the priest, Let your hand go back.
And he made the Levites holy, and the young man became his priest and was in the house of Micah.
Now when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, See, the man of whom I have said to you, this will be kept to my people.
But after that, they said to the Lord, We have done wrong, because we have turned away from the Lord, and have given worship to the Baals and Ashtaroth: but now give us salvation from the hand of our haters, and we will be your servant.
And David was living in the land of the Philistines for a year and for four months.
And when he had said this, he went to the high place.
And see how great this, to whom Abraham, the son of Abraham, gave the best part of the goods,
So that God was able to get up from among the dead, where he took him in a form.
Some of the sons of Levi, who have the orders of the priest, have given orders to take a tenth of the people by the law, that is, of their brothers, though they have come from the body of Abraham;
For this cause I made an oath to the house of God, that the wrongdoing of the house of the house of God was not kept clean for ever or ever.
And the Lord had given ear to the prayer of man's prayer, and the angel of the Lord came back to his wife as she was seated in the field; but her husband was not with her, and she saw the angel.
And Saul said, I will give him her, so that she may be a snare to him, and that the hands of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said to David, You are to this day for a second time.
And she was talking in her heart, and her lips were moved, but her voice was not heard at all.
Then the name of the Lord came to Samuel, and he got up and came to him, and said, See, I am, because you have given me my name. And he said, I did not send you, my son; go back to sleep.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said to the Lord, O my Lord the Lord, keep my mind in memory of me, O God, that I may give punishment to the Philistines for my pleasure.
Who, having been living in the form of God, did not give thought to God in comparison with God.
And the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
And Micaiah and the men who were in the houses of the house of Micah were crying out, and overtook the children of Dan.
And you will send a blessing to Jesse, and I will make clear to you what you are to do; and you will put on my name the one I say to you.
And he was in need of water and said to the Lord, You have given by the hand of your servant this great salvation; and now I will be put to death for need of water, and I will be put to death in the hands of the uncircumcised.
She sends out her hands to the bowmen, and her right work to the workers of music; and she put his head to death, crushing his head and it goes through his house.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, when he was dead.
And a man came to Saul, saying, Come quickly, for the Philistines have come to the land.
And he came in, and, looking, he was seated on the seat of the way, looking for the ark of God, and the man came in to say in the town, and all the town crying out.
For this reason, holy brothers, take part in the selection of the selection of God, to keep the Apostle and the high priest of our faith, Jesus;
And she sent for her, the son of Abinadab, from Asher, and said to him, Is not the Lord, the God of Israel, given orders? Go and go on Mount Tabor and take with you ten thousand men, from the sons of Naphtali, and out of the sons of Zebulun.
And Jonathan said to him, Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be cut off, for your seat will be wasted.
And here men who are dead take the tenth part of the land, but there is one of whom it is seen that he is living.
Let the power of the fire be put out, and let the sword be stretched out from the edge of the sword, and be strong in war, and let the people go in flight.
And now, see, the king you have chosen, whom you have said; and, See, the Lord has given you a king.
And they came to their brothers at the town of Zorah and Eshtaol; and their brothers said to them, What are you?
And Samuel had knowledge of the Lord, and the word of the Lord was not clear to him.
All these have been put to death by faith, not having received the word, but looking at them far away and giving them a blessing, and making clear that they are living in the land and in the earth.
For those who say these things make it clear to them that they are looking for a heritage.
And the men of David said to him, See, we are troubled here in Judah; how much more if we go to Keilah for the fight of the Philistines?
And they took two of the heads of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb, and put them to death at the rock of Oreb and in like Zeeb; and they went after Midian; and they went after Midian, and did the chiefs of Oreb and Zeeb, and took them in flight on the other side of the Jordan.
And they saw among the people of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins, who had no knowledge of man by deceit; and they took them to the tent-circle at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And now, my father, see the robe of your robe in my hand, and I will cut off the robe of your robe, and I will not put you to death, and I will see that there is no wrong in my hands or in my sin, and I have not sinned against you, and you are going to take my soul.
And that all these people may see that the Lord does not give salvation to the sword and the spear: for the Lord is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.
And they say, There is a feast of the Lord in Shiloh, from the time to the north of Beth-el, at the going of the sun, on the road which goes up from Beth-el to Shechem and on the south.
And she said, Give me, my lord; for I am the woman who has been with you in this place to make prayer to the Lord.
Even as for Zebah and Zalmunna, Up and fall on us; for as the man is his strength, he will come to shame and put to death like Zebah and Zalmunna, and put their ornaments on the camels's neck.
And there is no thing which is not seen in his eyes: but all things are without clothing, opening to the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
Now Abimelech was king over Israel for three years.
Now David, the son of Ephrathah, was from Beth-lehem of Judah, and his name was Jesse, who had eight sons: in the days of Saul, this man was old, and he was still walking among the men.
And when Bela went down to Gaza, he saw a loose woman with her.
And the Lord gave them up into the hands of the king of Canaan, the king of Canaan, who was ruling in Hazor; and he had a division of his army, and he was living in the direction of the nations.
For this day the Lord will give you into my hands, and I will send punishment on you and take your head away from you, and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air, and to the beasts of the earth, and to the beasts of the earth, so that all the earth may see that there is a God in Israel.
To take him from all the tribes of Israel to me for a priest, to go up on my altar, to make perfume and to take an ephod before me, and I will give to the house of your father all the offerings made by fire to the children of Israel.
But to rest in the flesh is needed for you.
So they gave orders to the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and be waiting in the vine-gardens.
Even if I have been offered on the offerings and in your faith, I am glad and full of joy with you all.
And they said to the men of Jabesh-gilead, This is what you are to say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, Up to the day when the sun is heated, you will be safe. And the men came and gave it to the men of Jabesh-gilead, and they were glad.
In the time of the grain-cutting, the son of Jonathan went to his wife with a young goat, and said, I will go in to my wife in the bedroom, but her father would not let him go in.
And Jonathan said to the young man who gave birth to his goods, Come, let us go over to the tents of these men, if the Lord will do for us; for there is no division to the Lord for a long time or a small number.
And David took back all the Amalekites, and David took away his two wives.
And laughing went away from his brothers, and made their living-place in the land of Samaria; and there were foolish men in laughing, and they put an end to him.
And Saul went away from the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
And Abimelech went up on Mount Zalmon, he and all his army who were with him; and Abimelech took the axe in his hand, cutting it down, and put it on his shoulder. And he said to the people who were with him, What you have seen is quickly quickly.
And some of them out of the fight say that Christ is not true, because they thought they have sorrow to my chains.
By faith we have the approval of the world, so that what is seen may not come from the things which are seen.
So that the first agreement was not made holy without blood.
And they will not give teaching to every man, and every man his brother, saying, Have knowledge of the Lord; for all will see me, from the least to the greatest.
And David took back all that Amalek had taken; and David took away his two wives.
And in another he says, You are a priest for ever, as the order of Melchizedek.
See, my brothers, that there may not be any of you an evil heart, because of the fear of the living God.
And David, questioning the Lord, said, Am I to go after this band? will I overtake them? And he said to him, Go after them; for you will overtake them, and without loss all.
Make a question to your young men, and they will say to you, Let the young men be glad in your eyes, for we come in a good day: give it to your servants, and to David your son.
Now the seventy children of war and their blood came to Abimelech, their brother, and put them to death, and on Shechem's masters, who gave strength to his brothers.
So that this is not to you for a cause of trouble, and for a cause of sin to my lord, that you may not put to death the blood of death, or my lord's power: and the Lord has done good to my lord, and you have put in memory of your servant.
And Jonathan said to Saul his father, Why should he be put to death? what has he done?
And they were crying to the Lord, and said, We have done wrong, because we have gone away from the Lord, and have given worship to the Baals and Ashtaroth; but now give us salvation from the hand of our haters, and we will be your servant.
Have it not been seen by them, a young woman, a woman of two young women, with the goods of men who are able to be able to be able to be able to make sport of them?
In those days there is no king in Israel, everyone who is right in his eyes.
Now this cause which your servant has given to my lord, let it be given to the young men who go after my lord.
And put his life on him, and let him give you salvation from the hands of Midian;
And the children of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord, and gave worship to the Baals and Ashtaroth and the gods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they went away from the Lord and gave him no respect.
So David and his men came to the town, and saw that it was burned with fire; and their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken prisoners.
And give you up out of the hands of the Egyptians, and from all those who are cruel to you; and I will send them out at your coming in and give you their land.
But the pride of her in Israel will be a cause of trouble, and they will not be moved to change their hearts; for he is not a man to put his mind in mind.
And he went down and talking with the woman, and she was pleased with the woman.
And the man, the son of Elkanah, and all his family, went up to give offerings to the Lord for the year of the year, and for his word.
And his three sons went after him to the fight; and the name of his three sons was Eliab the oldest, and Abinadab the second, and the third Shammah.
And early day, when they got up early the day, they saw their faces and their faces to the earth in front of the ark of the Lord; and they took their place of Dagon and put him in his place again.
And the Lord sent Benjamin before Israel, and the children of Israel were cut off from Benjamin that day twenty-five thousand men: all these were taken by the sword.
In my wrath they will not go into my rest.
For this reason it is necessary for some to go into it, and the people to whom the good news has been preached before, because of the wrongdoing.
And they say, If you send the ark of the God of Israel away, do not send it away completely: for you are sent back to him for a crime, and you are made well, and it has been clear to you that his hand may not be turned away from you.
And all the men of Israel went up out of their place, and put themselves in their place at Baal Tamar: and the rest of Israel came out of their place and went out from Migdol.
And they saw an Egyptian in the field, and took him to David, and gave him bread, and he gave him food; and they gave him water to drink.
Then she took the cords and put him in chains, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, and the Philistines are on you, and there were men living in the room; and he took them from his arms like a thread.
And he said, Let me die with the Philistines, and let me go down with all his strength; and the house came down on the heads and on all the people who were in it. So the dead he put to death in his death more than they were put to death.
But the Lord said to Samuel, See not on his face, or on the high place of his body, because I have put him to shame: for the Lord sees not as man sees: for man is looking on the face, but the Lord is looking on the heart.
And he was questioning by him where he came from. And he said, I am a Levite, the son of Beth-lehem, and I am living where I am able, and where I have a place for my profit.
Let peace be in flight with all; and let no one see the Lord.
See that the grace of God may not be turned away from the grace of God, or the root of bitter feelings come up against you, and a number of grief may be made unclean.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, which were taken away from you, said, I am in my hearing, the silver is with me, and I took it. And his mother said, May you be praised by the Lord, my son.
And when Saul saw it, he saw that the Lord was with David; and Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for him.
And he took the people down to the water: and the Lord said to the rod, Every man who goes after the water with his tongue, like a dog, will you take by himself, and let every man go on his knees to drink.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent to the responsible men of Judah, even to his friends, saying, See, here is a meal for you of the destruction of the haters of the Lord:
And he said to David, I am certain that you are good in my eyes as an angel of God: but the chiefs of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us to the fight.
And Samuel said to the people, Have no fear; you have done all this evil: only do not go away from the Lord, but have been the Lord with all your heart.
So all those who were in the town of Benjamin were about twenty-five thousand men who took the sword: all these men were strong men.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
So they went to the tents of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, See, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they were secretly.
And he went and took three hundred foxes, and gave them the tail to the tail, and fixed lights between the tails.
Then he said, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel give your request to you.
And Baal-hanan, the ruler of the town, had news of the words of Gath, and his wrath was burning.
And he said to them, Let me make clear sense to you, if you are able to make it clear to me in the seven days of the feast, and I will give you thirty linen robes and thirty changes of clothing;
They will be cut off, but you will be still, and all will be old as a robe.
And all Midian and Amalek and the children of the east came together, and went over and put up their tents in the valley of Jezreel.
For the women have been given up to life again, and others were troubled, not taking salvation, so that they might get a better life.
And when the words of David were ended, they gave them orders before Saul, and he sent for him.
But if not, let fire come out of Abimelech, and let the men of Shechem and the house of Millo be burned up; and let fire come out from the people of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and get up against Abimelech.
And Jonathan sent for David and gave him word of all these words; and Jonathan took David to Saul, and he was before him, as he had been before.
For you have put under his feet all things under his feet: because he has given up all things to him, he has kept nothing under him: but now we see not again all things under him.
Go and cry to the gods whom you have marked out; let them give you salvation in the time of your trouble.
And they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines to them, and said, What may we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And the carriage of the God of Israel said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be kept, and they took the ark of the God of Israel.
Now the children of Benjamin had news that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Say to us, How is this evil?
And opening the voice of the cry, he said, What is the sound of this trouble? But he quickly came and came and gave it to the prophet,
For my father was fighting for you, and his life was turned far away, and he gave you salvation from Midian:
Now there was a certain man of Saul's servants that day, waiting before the Lord; and he was named by name the Edomites, the chief of the keepers of the flock.
And we are not of those who are coming back to destruction, but of those who have faith in their hearts.
And Samuel was dead; and all Israel came together, weeping for him and put him in his house at Ramah. Then David got up and went down to the waste land of Paran.
For the law has made nothing without effect, and a cause of a good hope, through which we go near to God.
And when Saul had news that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, God has put him in my hand, for he is shut in, and he is going into a town that has walls and bars.
And the Lord sent cedar-trees, and Ziza, and Samuel, and gave you out of the hands of your haters round about, so that you were living in peace.
In this way, if the order of the priests was complete, then the law was given by the people, and there was no need for the priest to get up in the order of Melchizedek, and did not give orders to Aaron.
And Moses was true in all his house, as a servant of his servant, for a witness of the things which are to be said.
And Saul sent representatives to Jesse, saying, Send me your son David, who is with the sheep.
And he said to them, Is it possible for me to go away from me, and I am not able to take my money, and go to the other trees?
And David was wise in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
And when Saul was questioning the Lord, the Lord gave him no answer by dreams, by the Urim and the prophets.
You have made him a little lower than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honour.
It is better to be more better than the representatives, as his heritage is greater than they.
Let nothing be done in a cause of trouble or of pride, but let another man give honour to one another than himself.
And he said to the young man who took him by the hand, Let me take care of the images which are on the house, so that I may be waiting on them.
And she said, Give me a blessing, for you have given me a land of dry land: give me a land of water. So Caleb gave her the high and the lower land.
And they got up and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the waste land, in the Arabah on the south side of the waste land.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? why do you not have food? And why do you give trouble to your heart? am it not I better to you than ten children?
And they are to let Israel see if they keep the orders which the Lord gave to their fathers by Moses.
And the young men of David turned on their way, turning back and came in, and gave him word of all these words.
The voice of the Lord came to Saul in the town of Gibeah, saying, Is not the secret of David in the secret of the mountain of the waste?
( Of whom the world was not true:) they went wandering in the land, in the mountains, in holes, and in holes of the earth.
And when he came into his house, he took a knife, cutting off his wife, and took her, and put her in two parts, and sent her through all the limits of Israel.
For see him who has undergone the punishment of the sinners of sinners, so that you may be feeble and become feeble in your heart.
And she said, The glory has been taken away from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
And Jonathan said to the young man who gave birth to his goods, Come, let us go over to the tents of these men, and let it be that the Lord will make us work for us: for there is no division in the Lord for a long time or a small number.
And David took note of his men, and did not let them go up against Saul; and Saul got up from the hole and went on the way.
So the Philistines came together and put up their tents in Dothan; and Saul got up all Israel together and put up their tents in Gilboa.
For even in the town of Thessalonica, even in addition, you sent for my need.
See, today your eyes have seen that the Lord has given you this day into my hand in the hole, and some said, I will not put out my hand against my lord, for he is the Lord's anointed one.
In this way God's purpose was to give more abundantly to the heritage of the undertaking of the undertaking which he had given to the effect of his purpose;
And she went on living in the valley of Ephraim, between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for punishment.
So give ear to the voice of your servant, and let me put before you a bit of bread, so that you may have strength in you when you go on your way.
Now the Philistines had come together with their armies for war; and they took their tents together in their tents, which is in the land of Judah, and put up their tents between Geba and Azekah.
In the past, when it is hard for the church to make it hard for the church, so that the law is not upright.
I am looking for the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And it said, Is it possible for me to go away from my wealth, which the gods and men have made for themselves to come to be honoured among the trees?
And Deborah said, Get up. This is the day when the Lord has given you to Sisera in your hands: has the Lord gone out before you? And he went out from Mount Tabor with ten thousand men after him.
And the Holy Spirit gives witness to us, saying,
And the breast took up the leg and put it in front of Saul. And Samuel said, See that which has been kept, put it before you and take it to you; for the time has been kept for you, for I said, I have taken the people. So Saul took food with Samuel that day.
And the weight of the gold rings which he had said was a thousand seven hundred gold, and the weight and the red robes and the purple robes which were on the kings of Midian, and the chains on the neck of their camels;
Then Abimelech and all the divisions with him were put to death at the doorway of the town, and the two divisions were crushed against all who were in the field, and they put them to death.
And he sent ten young men and said to them, Go up to Carmel and go to the Carmelite, and give him a blessing in my name.
And the Philistines put on him and put out his eyes, and took him down to Gaza, and put him in chains of brass, and put him in prison in the prison.
And he built an altar there to the Lord, and gave it to the Lord, says the Lord, to this day it is in the house of the Rechabites:
And Moses was truly true in all his house, as a servant, for a witness of those things which were to be said.
Now the Rab-shakeh, the chief captain of the town, had news of the words of Jeremiah, the son of Micaiah, his wrath.
See now, and take knowledge of all the places where he is in secret, and come again to me with the truth, and I will go with you; and if he is in the land, I will send him out among the thousands of Judah.
Asher did not send out the people of the land, or the people of Zidon, or of the outskirts of Achzib, or of Achzib, or of Debir, or of Rehob, or of Rehob;
And the woman gave birth to a son, and gave him the name of the son of Shimea. And the child grew, and the Lord gave him his blessing.
And Samuel said to all the people of Israel, If you go back to the Lord with all your heart, put away the strange gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and give your heart to the Lord, and be his servant, and he will give you salvation from the hand of the Philistines.
By faith Abraham, when he had made an agreement with Isaac; and he gave up his only son,
And Saul said to him, Why have you made a design against me, you and the son of Jesse, by your giving to him bread and a sword, and to make request for him from God, to get up against me, and to keep waiting, as this day?
Of whom the world was not good, and wandering in the land, in mountains and in holes and in holes of the earth.
And David put his sword on his robes, and he went in search to go, for he had not tested it. And David said to Saul, I am not able to go with these men, for I have not seen them. And David put them off.
For we have knowledge of him who said, Vengeance is mine, says the Lord, and I will make payment; and the Lord will judge his people.
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go out from among the Amalekites, so that I may not send destruction on you with them, because you have given mercy to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites went out from among the Amalekites.
And Saul sent representatives to Jesse, saying, Send me your son David, who is with the sheep.
And they said to the responsible men of Gilead, If you take me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and the Lord give them up before me, will I be your head?
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man of war? and who is like you in Israel? why have you not kept watch over your lord the king? for one of the people has come to destruction against the king your lord.
By which through birth the Son has knowledge of the things which were given to him;
For if the blood of the ox and of the goats and the ashes of a cow make the unclean, make holy to the sin of the man,
And they said, You have not done wrong with us, or have been cruel to us; you have not taken anything from anyone.
And David said to Abimelech, Is there not under your hand a spear or a sword under your hand? for I have not put my sword or my instruments with me, because the king's business is quickly ready.
Will it be for us, who will give us out of the hands of these great gods? these are the gods who put the Egyptians to death in the waste land.
And the chiefs of Gilead said to one another, If any one of us comes to fight against the children of Ammon, he will be ruler over the children of Gilead.
Wherever they went out, the hand of the Lord was against them for evil, as the Lord had said; and as the Lord had made an oath to them, they were troubled.
And the children of Israel gave to Eglon, king of Moab, for eighteen years.
And the woman got quickly and went to her husband and said to her husband, See, the man has been seen by me, who came to me the second day.
And I took him out of all the tribes of Israel, to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to make perfume, and to put on an ephod before me: and I gave to the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel.
And he said to her, Get up, let us go; but there was no answer. So he put her on the ass, and the man got up and went to his place.
And when Israel was planting, Midian came up, and Amalek and the children of the east, and came up against them.
And when he had said the words of God's ark, he came down from his place on the side of the doorway, and his neck was broken, and he was dead: for he was an old man and a great man, and he had been judging Israel for forty years.
So she was weeping before him the seven days of the feast; and at the seventh day she gave birth to it, and he made it clear to her.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out to them, and said to them, No, my brothers, do not be so evil. See that this man has come into my house, do not this foolish thing.
Then he sent out to the young man his robe, and said to him, Take your sword and put me to death, that they may not say of me, A woman put him to death; and his young man put him in flight, and he was dead.
In those days the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, and said to David, Be certain that you will go out with me in the army, you and your men.
And from among the children of Dan, there were Zorah of Zorah and Eshtaol, six hundred men ready for war.
The men of Midian overcame Israel, because the children of Israel made themselves secret for themselves in the hill-country and in holes and in the holes and in the holes.
And when Saul was talking to the priest, the noise which was in the tents of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said to the priest, Let loose your hand.
And he went up and said to his father and mother, I saw a woman in Timnah from the daughters of the Philistines, and then take her for me as a wife.
And when she had sent him hard with her words, she made a request to him that his soul was troubled.
And Abigail came to the widow of Nabal; and, behold, he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and the heart of the sinner was glad inside him, because he was very drunk, and she gave him no more than the morning light.
And the king said to the men who were waiting for him, Go and put the priests of the Lord to death, because their hand is with David, and because they had knowledge when he went away, and did not say to me, but the servants of the king were not willing to put their hand on the priests of the Lord.
And all the rulers of the tower of Shechem went to the arch of God's house.
And he said, Why does my lord go after his servant? what have I done, and what is in my hand?
For this cause, my brothers, my love and my desire for you, be strong in the Lord, my love.
May not the Lord be able to put out my hand against the king of the Lord; but now take the spear, and let us go.
And David made an oath again to David. And David said, Your father has knowledge that I have seen grace in your eyes, and he will say, Do not let Jonathan see this, or he will be sad, but truly as the Lord is living, and your soul will be living, and I will say, I am living.
And when he had given back the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, his mother said, I had completely given the silver to the Lord from my hand for my son, to make a image and a metal image: now I will give it back to you.
And your men-servants and your women-servants and your young men and your young men and your asses he may take and make ready for his work.
And when the people saw the people, he said to the people, See, people come down from the tops of the mountains. And he said to him, You see the shade of the mountains as if they were men.
And the children of Israel took directions from the Lord, for the ark of the agreement of God was there in those days.
And David said to Saul, Who am I, and who are my brothers, the family of my father in Israel, that I may be a son-in-law to the king?
And the children of Ammon made war with Israel, and the chiefs of Gilead went to get out of the land of Tob.
And Jonathan said good of David to Saul his father, and said to him, Let not the king be a sinner against his servant, because he has not done evil against you: for what he has done is good to you.
And to Hormah, and to those who were in war, and to those who were in war,
And it was said to them, I am a man of great trouble, I and my people, with the children of Ammon, and I have given you help, and you have not kept me safe from their hands.
And at the time of the grain-cutting, at the time of the grain-cutting, the son came to his wife, and said, I would go to my wife's private place. But her father would not let him go in.
And Joram, the son of Joash, was in a good old age, and he was put to death in the place of his father Joash, in the place of Ophrah, in the place of the house of the Rechabites.
And the young man gave an answer to Saul and said, See, there is a fourth of an ounce of silver, and I have given to the man of God, and he has given us our way.
And when he came into his house, he took a knife and put on his wife, and took her, cutting her, and sent her through all the limits of Israel.
And he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and went through the land of the valley; but they went through the land of Elim, and there they were not there; and he went past the land of Benjamin, but they did not find them.
And Saul was very angry, and this was evil in his eyes; and he said, They have given David ten thousands, and they have given to me a thousand; what will he have, but the kingdom?
And the sons of Benjamin said, They are overcome before us as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight and get them out of the town to the roads.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistines, he said to Abner, the captain of the army, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As your soul is life, I am unable to say.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel; and Israel went out to fight the Philistines, and they put up their tents at Aphek; and the Philistines put up their tents at Aphek.
And while they were with the house of Micah, they had knowledge of the voice of the young Levites, and they came to him and said to him, Who has taken you here? what are you doing in this place? and what is your business here?
And the man, the lord of the house, went out to them and said to them, No, my brothers, do not do so evil; see that this man has come into my house, do not this foolish thing.
He made a request with milk and milk, and made butter with milk.
But his wife said to him, If the Lord has been pleased to put us to death, he would not have given us a burned offering and a meal offering at our hands, and he would not have given us all these things, or have he given us a word of this time.
And Saul said, I will give her to him, so that she may be a snare to him, and that the hands of the Philistines may be against him. And he said to David, You are to be my son-in-law a second time.
And he said to his servants who took care of him, Give ear to me now, you sons of Shelah: the son of Jesse will give you the fields and the vine-gardens and the vine-gardens and the captains of war.
The bow of strong men is broken, but those who are in trouble are clothed with strength.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to the voice of the people in everything they say to you: for they have not turned away from you, but they have turned away from me, so that I may not be king over them.
For those who say these things are openly made clear to the land.
For we have not a chief priest who is not able to take care of ourselves with our diseases, but put in all things in like manner, without sin.
And the five men who went to search out the land went up, and they went in and took the image of gods, and the holy image and the ephod and the metal images and the metal image: and the priest was standing at the door of the doorway with the armed men of war.
Then Shammah the son went down, and his father and mother went to Timnah, and came to the vine-gardens of Timnah: and there was a great lion in a loud outcry against him.
And Jonathan gave his arms to his young men and said to him, Go and take them to the town.
So David overcame the Philistines with a stone and a stone, and overcame the Philistines and put him to death; but there was no sword in David's hands.
And from the day that the ark was in Kiriath-jearim, the time was long, for it was about twenty years; and all the children of Israel were weeping after the Lord.
For the high priest, such as it is, is right for us, holy, without faith, without mercy, cut off from sinners, and lifted up high above the heaven;
And the slope of the House of Zebulun came to rest in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun.
But the children of Israel, changing new sins in the eyes of the Lord, did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and gave worship to the Baals and the Baals and the gods of Aram and of Zidon and of the children of Ammon and of the Philistines: and they went away from the Lord and were not his servants.
Now Saul, and all the men of Israel, in the valley of Siddim, fight against the Philistines.
And Saul's father said to him and to his servant, Where did you go? And he said, Go to search for the female asses; and when we saw no one, we went to Samuel.
So they sent the ark of God to Ekron, and as the ark of God came to Ekron, crying out, They have taken the ark of the God of Israel to us, to put us to death and to our people.
And his brothers and all his brothers went down with his body and put it in his body, and they put it in the place where his father had been put to death, and he was put to death for twenty years.
Those who were full have got for food, and those who were in need are full of food: yes, the children of the dead have given birth to seven, and the number of the young ones is wasted.
But the angel of the Lord did not come to another man, and to his wife; and Adam knew that he was an angel of the Lord.
And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was greatly troubled, and said to him, See, your servant has given ear to your voice, and I have put my life in my hands, and have given ear to your words which you have given me.
And Saul went on his way to the town of Gibeah; and with him went the band which God had given him.
And it is still more clear, for a different priest comes to the image of Malchijah,
And the Lord was with Judah, and he was living in the hill-country, but not to take away the people of the valley, for they had war-carriages of iron.
And his sons did not go in his ways, but made money for money, and took a reward of money, and made fair decisions.
And the woman had a fat ox in the house; and she quickly put it to death; and she took some of the best meal and made cakes of unleavened bread.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and let the men of Shechem and the house of the Millo be burned up; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and get up against Abimelech.
And one of the people said to one of the people, Your father gave orders to the people, saying, Cursed is the man who has no food on this day, and the people are feeble.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and said,
So David went with him, he and the six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the river country, and some of them were tired.
When you go into the town, you may see him, before he goes up to the high place to take food: for the people do not take food till his coming, because he has given the offering to the peace-offerings; and when they have food, they go up; for at this time you see him.
Who, having no power in the form of God, did not make use of it as an offering of destruction to God.
But now the kingdom of your kingdom will not be kept: for the Lord has given him a man after his heart, and the Lord has given him orders for his people, because you have not kept the orders which the Lord gave you.
And now, see, the king you have chosen, whom you have asked for; and, behold, the Lord has put a king over you.
And the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel and said to her, David has sent us to give you a wife.
But the boy had no knowledge of this; only Jonathan and David had knowledge of the thing.
And Saul came near to Samuel in the middle of the doorway, and said, Make clear to me where this is the house of the prophet?
And Saul said to his servant, Your word is good. Come, let us go. And they went into the town, where the man of God was.
And he said to him, My lord, how am I to give salvation to Israel? See, my head is in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
But Saul was greatly angry, and this thing was evil in his eyes; and he said, They have given to David ten thousand, and to me they have given the thousands and the kingdom more than the kingdom.
And say, Today, if you give ear to his voice, do not make your hearts hard as in the wrath.
And no man takes this honour to himself, but the name of God is Aaron.
Now then, give ear to the voice of your servant, and let me put before you a bit of bread, so that you may have food and be strong enough to go on your journey.
By the window she saw, and crying out, The mother of Sisera looked at the window, saying, Why is his carriage so long in coming? why are the wheels of his war-carriages?
And the land was resting for forty years; and the name of Othniel, the son of Kenaz, died.
But I have all, and have increased; I am full, and have taken away the things which were sent from you, an offering of a sweet smell, a sweet smell, pleasing to God.
But you did well that you had peace with my troubles.
And the priest made answer to David, saying, I have no food in my hands, but only holy bread: if the young men are clean, especially of women?
And the second day, after the new moon, the second day of the month, Saul said to his son Jonathan, Why has not the son of Jesse come to table, or yesterday or day?
And now I have news that you are cut off; now your keepers who were with us, we did not put them to death, and there was no loss from them; all the time they were in Carmel.
Then the children of Israel said to the Lord, There is the ark of the agreement of God in those days.
And you saw an evil man in my place, in all that he has done good with Israel, and there is no man in your house all the days.
And the children of Israel cry out to the Lord, and the Lord gave a saviour to the children of Israel, and he gave them salvation: Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
I will send three arrows to the sides, and I will put up three arrows.
And Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah on the second day, and put an end to the destruction of the children of Israel, eighteen thousand men; all these were taken by the sword.
And the people made answer to him, saying, These things are given to the man who will put him to death.
And they sent the ark of God to Ekron, when the ark of God came to Ekron, saying, They have taken the ark of the God of Israel round about us, to put us to death and our people.
And the children of Israel had no memory of the Lord their God, who had given them out of the hands of all their haters on every side.
But the children of Benjamin came together out of the towns at Gibeah, to go out to fight against the children of Israel.
For we who have faith will come into rest, as he said, As I have made an oath in my wrath, if they will come into my rest, though the works were ended from the foundation of the world.
And the Hebrew men who had been with the Philistines had only yesterday and the day before, and went up with them into the tent-circle with Saul and Jonathan.
And all the men of Israel who had taken secret themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they had news that the Philistines had gone away, they went after them in the war.
And the sons of Benjamin went out against the people and were taken away from the town; and they came to death and put to death the people, as at other times, in the roads which went up to Beth-el, and the other on the town of Gibeah in the field of Israel.
Because of this you have joy and joy with me.
Then Abimelech went to the place of Thebez and put up his tents against him and took it.
And when Jonathan had overcome the army of the Philistines at Geba, the Philistines had news of it. And Saul sounded the horn in all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews give ear.
He says of the angels, Who makes his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire.
And she was ninety-nine years old, and his eyes were fixed, so that he might not see.
And he came to the outskirts of the field, and Saul went in to cover his feet. And David and his men were living in the middle of the hole.
Now put her word in her heart, but her lips were moved, but her voice was not heard: for it was said, She was made drunk.
And the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they said to him, The son-in-law of the sister of Edom, because he took his wife and gave her to his friend; and the Philistines came up and burned her and her father with fire.
There is a blessing from the higher, but there is no argument in any cause.
And Saul said to the people who were with him, Give ear, I pray you, and see: who has gone from us? And they see, and see, Jonathan and the bowmen are not.
And they sent representatives again to the king of the children of Ammon,
But Sihon had not let Israel go through his limits; but Sihon had all his people come together and put up their tents in Jahaz, attacking Israel.
And they went on from there to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And from there he went against the people of Debir: now the name of Debir was Kiriath-sepher.
It is not good that you have done. As the Lord is living, you are to be put to death, because you have not kept your master, the king of the Lord; and now see where the king's spear is, and the water which was in his hands.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they did not keep the Lord their God, worshipping the Baals and the trees.
For the Lord will not give away his people, because of his great name; for the Lord has been pleased to make you a people.
And they got up early in the morning, and they got up with his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord: the head of Dagon and the hands of his two hands were cut off, and the body of Dagon was gone.
For to me he gives life to me and to death.
And he overcame the Amalekites and overcame them, and made Israel free from their hands.
For how much more will he be put to the account of whom the Son of God has been stamped on? and the blood of the agreement has taken part of a common thing, in which he was made holy, and by the Spirit of grace?
And they made a agreement before the Lord; and David was living in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
And all those who were in fear of death were all their days into slavery.
But bands went after the war-carriages, and after the army, to make the distribution of the nations, and all the tents of Sisera came to the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
And I will come to you, to the river of the river, to Sisera, and to Sisera, and to his war-carriages, and to his army, and I will give him into your hands.
And today you have turned away from your God, who gave you salvation out of all your troubles and your troubles; and you said to him, No, but put a king over us. Now now, give yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands.
And when the Lord gave them judges, then the Lord was with the judge, and gave them salvation from the hand of their haters all the days of the judge: for it was turned to the Lord because of their cries of grief because of them who were cruel and cruel.
And they will not give teaching to one another, and every man his brother, saying, Have knowledge of the Lord: for all will see me, from the least to the greatest.
And Jacob gave Jacob his blessing, blessing every one of the sons of Joseph, and gave worship to his rod.
And after a while when he came back to take her, he went away to see the dead bodies of the lion: and there was a swarm of bees in the land of the lion and of the honey.
Say to all your friends, and to all the saints: Let the brothers of Italy send you their love.
For it is not for the blood of the ox or of the goats to take away sins.
And not my righteousness, which is by the law, but that through faith of Christ, the righteousness of God by faith,
And David took from her hand from her hand which she had given him. And he said to her, Go in peace to your house. See, I have given ear to your voice, and have given your request.
And Samuel said, What is this clear thing to the sheep of my ears, and the voice of the oxen which I give hearing?
And Jair came to death and was put to death in the earth.
Now Samuel had no knowledge of the Lord, and the word of the Lord was not clear to him.
For who, when they had knowledge, were angry? and all those who came out of Egypt by Moses?
But when his wife's wife was made clear to him, she went away from him and went to the house of her father, to Beth-lehem, and she was there for four months.
And this man went up out of his town on the fixed time, to give worship and offering offerings to the Lord of armies in Shiloh: and the two sons of Mary, the sons of Heli, the sons of Phinehas, were there, priests of the Lord.
For we who have faith come into rest, as he has said, They will never come into my rest, but they will never go into my rest. And these things have been done from the power of the world.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, was waiting before it, saying, Will we go out once more to the war against the sons of Benjamin, or let us be stopped? And the Lord said, Go up tomorrow, and I will give them into your hands.
And he had a head-dress of brass on his head, and he was armed with a robe of mail; and the weight of the robe was five thousand shekels of brass.
And when David saw that Saul was purposing the evil, he said to Abiathar the priest, Come near the ephod.
So that you may be without knowledge, and true children of God, without teaching, in the middle of a twisted and twisted generation, among whom you are shining as lights in the earth.
Are they not able to get the goods taken by their goods? A bed, or two, for every man, and for all sorts of clothing, and for Sisera, and for the goods of old robes, and for clothing of long colours, and for clothing of needlework, and on the neck of the attacker?
So he took him down, and there they went over the face of all the land, feasting and drinking and dancing because of all the goods which they had taken away from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon; and they overcame the Canaanites who were living in the field, and gave it to destruction; and the name of the town was named Hormah.
And Saul said, Let them send the decision between me and Jonathan, my son. And Jonathan was chosen.
But they did not give ear to their judges, for they went after other gods, and gave themselves to them: they went quickly out of the way their fathers had gone in, to keep the orders of the Lord: they did not so.
And early the day when they got up early the morning, they saw their faces of Dagon on his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord; and they took their place of Dagon and put him in his place again.
And David was wise in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
So he took food and the horns for them, and he gave orders to all the people to go back to their tents; and he with the three hundred men gave himself to the fight: and the tents of Midian was under him in the valley.
So David went away from there and went to the rock of Adullam; and when his brothers and all his father's house had news of it, they went down to him.
For you have been comforted by my chains, and have taken away the goods of your goods with joy, knowing that you have a better wealth in heaven and for ever.
And they were waiting for him on the top of the mountains; and while they were waiting for his coming, they took the goods of everything which went by; and it was said to Abimelech.
And she said to her, How long will you get away? put away your wine from you.
And he said to her, How long will it be for you, get drunk? take the wine of the wine which you have taken.
And they gave orders to him, and he went up to the top of Mount Gerizim, and said to them, Give ear to me, O lords of Shechem, so that God may give ear to you.
For this cause we have so great a cloud of witnesses round about us, because it is necessary for us to undergo the weight of sin, so that we may go before us.
So David got up early with his men to go back to the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And they went up and put up their tents in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah; and they were named that place from Dan to this day: see, at Kiriath-jearim.
And the woman said to him, See, you have knowledge of what Saul has done, and how he has taken away the secret spirits and the readers of spirits out of the land: why then have you put a net for my life, to cause me to die?
And Saul said to his young man, Your word is good. Come, let us go. And they went to the town where the man of God was.
And he gave birth to Samuel and said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
From the first way there was not the first without blood.
And now I am certain that you will be king, and that the kingdom of Israel will be in your hands.
And he said to her, If they keep me with new cords, I will be feeble and be like another man.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and took them into the guest room and put them in the best place among those who had been invited, who were about thirty persons.
And in the morning Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David and a little child with him.
Saying, This is the blood of the agreement which God gave you.
For this cause I have not done wrong against you, but you have done me wrong against me: this day the judge is judge between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And the priest said to David, There is no bread under my hand, but there is holy bread: if the young men have kept themselves from women,
And he said to them, What have I done to you like that which you have done? Is not the grapes of Ephraim better than the children of Abiezer?
And he put to death some of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of the Lord: and he put to death seventy men and fifty thousand men: and the people were crying for a great cry, because the Lord had given the people a great slaughter.
And when the Philistines saw David, he did not put him to shame; for he was only a young man, and red, and a beautiful face.
And David said to him, May the Lord living, you are upright; and when you go out, you may go out with me in the tent-circle; for I have not seen evil in you from the day you come to me to this day, but you are not pleased with the rulers.
And when the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord for Midian,
The Lord makes poor and makes wealth; he makes low, and he is lifted up.
And the army of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
And Samuel was dead; and all the children of Israel came together and made a song for him and put him in his house at Ramah. And David got up and went down to the waste land of Paran.
And the son of Micaiah said, Who is Abimelech, and who are we of Shechem, that we may serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbaal, and his chief captain, and put in worship the men of Hamor, the father of Shechem?
And he said, This will be the right of the king who will rule over you: he will take your sons and put them in his war-carriages, and will make them his horsemen, and his running men will go before his war-carriages.
You made him a little lower than the angels; you crowned him with glory and honour, and put him over the works of your hands.
And in the morning, when the wine had gone out of the body of Nabal, his wife gave him an account of these things, and his heart was dead inside him, and he became like a stone.
And David and all the people who were with him lifted up their voice and were weeping, till there was no longer a cry.
To those in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and all his men were.
And all the people feared the Lord and Samuel; and all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, so that we may not be put to death: for we have given all our sins to the king for a king.
And I said to you, I am the Lord your God: do not have fear of the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are living; but you have not given ear to my voice.
And on that day the Lord gave salvation to Israel, and the fighting went through Beth-aven.
And Saul said nothing that day, for he had thought that he was not clean: he is not clean.
Make straight roads for your feet, so that what is feeble may not be turned out of the way, but be well.
And they came to the top of the high place, and, behold, a band of prophets came to him, and the spirit of God was made well over him, and he was a prophet in their hearts.
And the tribe of Benjamin was taken by their families; and Saul, the son of Kish, was taken; but Saul, the son of Kish, was waiting for him, but he was not able to be seen.
And they saw an old man coming out of the fields and from his work in the evening, and he was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and was living as a strange man in Geba: but the men of the land were the children of Shelah.
Let the bride be honoured among all, and let the bed be free: but God will judge the man who is unclean and the man who is untrue to him.
And Abimelech and his armies went out quickly, and took their place at the doorway of the town, and two of them went to all who were in the field and put them to death.
And the wall of Jericho was waiting for seven days.
But you have well done, that you have part with my trouble.
Who, being in the form of God, did not take away his property with God;
For God is not evil, so that you may not keep your work, and the love which you have made for his name, to keep the saints and keep them.
And to those who were in Beth-el, and to them in the south at Ramoth-gilead;
And when the Lord will do to my lord, as he has said about you, and will make you ruler over Israel,
And they gave it to him, and he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, lifting up his voice and said to them, Give ear to me, O people of Shechem, that God may give ear to you.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Take the ark of God, for the ark of God was there with the children of Israel.
And they said to them, He is the one who is to come before you. Come quickly quickly, for he has come in to the town, for the people have a curse in a high place.
And all those who are left in your house will come and bow down to him for a bit of silver and a cake of bread, and say, Give me to one of the priests' orders, so that I may take a bit of bread.
For the things which have been given to us in heaven, from which we have been waiting for the Lord Jesus Christ,
And Saul was living in the farthest part of Gibeah under the care of the pomegranate, and the men with him were about six hundred men.
But the Amorites were living in the mountains of brass, in Aijalon, and in Bene-jaakan; and the hand of the house of Joseph overcame them, so that they were under forced work.
But we are not the children of the destruction, but of faith to the salvation of the soul.
And now give ear to the voice of your servant, and let me put a bit of bread before you, and take food so that you may have strength when you go on your way.
And he took off his clothing, and gave prophets before Samuel and all that night and all that night. So they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel and said to her, David has sent us to you to take you as his wife.
And at that night the Lord said to him, Go down to the tent-circle, for I have given it into your hands.
But I was glad in the Lord, so that now you have given life to me in your thoughts, though you seem to me, but have no chance.
And they went away from the Lord, worshipping Baal and Ashtaroth.
Now there was a secret place among the Philistines in the direction of the Philistines, and the rocks were round about them, and the rocks were like the teeth on the one side and on the other; and the name of the one was named red, and the name of the other was made dark.
Saying, You have made offerings and offerings and burned offerings and offerings for sin which you have not desire, and have no pleasure in them ( for those who are given by the law),
And from year to year he went to Beth-el, and to Gilgal, and at Mizpah; and he put Israel in position in all those places.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
For this cause, having gone out the word of the Christ, we are to come to the limits of the world, not again a time of turning from the dead works of death and faith in God;
But there was a protest in the land of Ephraim, and they went to the north and said to them, When you went to fight against the children of Ammon, why did you not send us in flight, that we might go with you? So we will be burned with fire.
And they went back from before the men of Israel into the waste land: but the war overtook them, and those who came from the towns put them to destruction among them.
Who in the days of his flesh gave up prayers and mercy, weeping and weeping, to the one who was able to keep him safe from death: and he was hearing as a blessing.
Let our lord give orders to your servants, for they are looking for a wise man, playing on the harp, and it came to pass, in the spirit of grief, because God has been with you, and it is well with you.
And the spirit of the Lord was on Saul, and he was seated in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was playing with his hand.
And having gone away again to get back again to the change of sins, and to be put to death again the Son of God, and uncovered to shame.
These are the nations which the Lord went away, to make Israel go after them, all who have not seen all the wars of Canaan:
So Abimelech got up with all his army by night, and went in flight at Shechem in four places.
And Shammah, the son of Kareah, came and took three hundred foxes, and took the tail and the tail, and put a light between the two tails in the middle of the earth.
And David and his men went up and made a attack on the people of Geshur and the Amalekites and Amalek: for they were the men of old men of the land, as you go to Shur and to the land of Egypt.
See, I will send the young man, saying, Go and see the arrows. If I say to the boy, See, the arrows are on this side and take them; then come; for there is peace to you and no evil, as the Lord lives.
And all the people got up as one man, saying, We will not go to his tent or go to his house.
Why have you put away my offerings, and my offerings which I gave to be offered in the Temple, and you have been honoured to your sons more than me, to take the first-fruits of all my people Israel?
And he gave the eleven hundred silver to his mother, and his mother said, I have given the silver to the Lord from my hand for my son, to make a image and a metal image; and now I will give it back to you.
And the angel of the Lord came and took his seat under the great tree in Ophrah, which was the name of Joash, the son of Abital; and he put the grain in the wine, crushing it from the Midianites.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
There is a hole in the house of God, and there is a hole in the house of God.
And you have come up against the house of my father today and put to death his sons, seventy men, on one stone and send Abimelech, the son of his servant, to be king over Shechem, because he is your brother.
Is not this David, to whom they were glad, saying, Saul put to death his thousands, and David, his ten thousands?
And they got up and went to Ziph before Saul; and David and his men were in the waste land in the Arabah, to the south of the waste land.
For for a short time they gave us training after their pleasure, but he for our profit, that we might be in his holy position.
But today you are turning away from your God, who only has made you free from all your troubles and your troubles; and you have said, No, but put a king over us. Now now, take your place before the Lord by your tribes and your families.
And Moab was overcome that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest for eighty years.
And the Lord said to the people, The people are still more, and I will send them to the waters, and I will make them search for them; and I will say to you, This is to go with you, let him go; for I will not let him go again.
Now the Spirit of the Lord went away from Saul, and the spirit of the Lord was troubled by the Lord.
For as long as the son of Jesse is living on the earth, you will not be strong or strong; why then send and get him to me, for he will certainly be put to death.
And they sent representatives to the people of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have taken back the ark of the Lord; come down and get it up to you.
And the priest said to David, There is no bread under my hand, but there is holy bread: if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
And now this blessing which your servant has given to my lord, let it be given to the young men who go after my lord.
And David said to him, Whose are you? And he said, Where are you? And he said, I am a young man, a servant of the Egyptian, an Amalekite, and my lord, for three days.
And Midian and Amalek and all the children of the east went in the valley as locusts for the number of locusts, and their camels without number, as the sand on the sea.
And Jonathan made a agreement with David, because he loved him as his soul.
And the servants of Saul said these words in the ears of David, Does it seem to you a light to be the king's father-in-law? for I am a poor man, and I am not honoured.
And she said to him, My father, you have given up your mouth to the Lord; do to me what has come out of your mouth: for the Lord has taken punishment for you on your haters, even on the children of Ammon.
So all those who were falling that day of Benjamin were about twenty thousand men who took the sword; all these were men of war.
For we have faith in Christ, if we have the first faith to the end.
And David came to Saul and took his place before him, and he was very dear love for him, and he became his arms.
And my God will give you all the need of yours for his wealth in glory in Christ Jesus.
See now how great this man was, to whom Abraham gave the tenth part of the goods.
And David came to the priest and said to him, How are you, and no one with you?
And at the end of ten days, the Lord made the sinner, and he was dead.
The mountains were moved before the Lord, even Sinai before the Lord, the God of Israel.
For you have knowledge that after this, when he was desiring to take his heritage, he was put to shame; for he had no change of mind, but with weeping he had made search for it.
And she said, O my lord, you are living, my lord, I am the woman who has been with you here, requesting to the Lord.
And he gave the money back to his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the father who made her for a image and a metal image; and they were in the house of Micah.
But the men were very good to us, and we had nothing to do with us, and we had nothing to do with them as long as we went with them in the field.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house; and the child was waiting for the Lord before the Lord.
And I will make me a holy priest who will do according to what is in my heart and in my mind; and I will make him a safe place, and he will go before my selection for ever.
But they gave no memory of the Lord their God, driving them into the hands of Sisera, the captain of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab; and they were fighting against them.
If, then, would they not have the right to be offered? because they had been made clean, having no pleasure in sin.
That night the Lord said to him, Up, go down into the tent-circle, for I have given it into your hands.
And when the five chiefs of the Philistines saw it, they went back to Ekron the same day.
For everyone who takes of milk is not conscious of the word of righteousness, because he is a child.
So that you may be without mercy and without cause, the sons of God, in the middle of a twisted and twisted nation, among whom you are shining as lights in the earth.
And the Lord said, Let Judah go up; see, I have given the land into his hands.
And as they went down to the outskirts of the town, Samuel said to Saul, Give orders to the servant to pass before us; and when he has gone, you are waiting for a while, so that I may make clear to you the word of God.
May God do so, and give more to the haters of David, if I go from all who are to him till the morning, if any one takes note of the wall.
Then Samuel took the bottle of oil and put it on his head, and gave him a kiss and said, Has not the Lord made you ruler over his heritage?
In no fear, but in all things, by prayer and prayers, let your prayer be made known to God.
And the three sons of Jesse went out after Saul, and the name of his three sons: Eliab the oldest, his second son, Abinadab the second, and the third Shammah.
And Abimelech was fighting against the town all that day, and took the town, and the people who were in it he had put to death, crushing the town and planting it.
And they went to their tents and put an end to the produce of the land as far as Gaza; and there was no food in Israel or sheep or ox or ass.
And Deborah said to her, Up! for this is the day when the Lord has given you to Sisera in your hands: is it not the Lord who went out before you? So the king went down from Mount Tabor and ten thousand men after him.
It is for the training which you are to undergo: God is acting with you as with children; for what son is there, whom his father has not training?
For the law makes men the high priests, but the word of the oath, which was from the law, made the Son holy for ever.
And Saul sent messengers to David, and said, He is ill.
And he said, What have you done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were wandering from me, and that you did not come inside the time when the Philistines came together at Michmash;
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
For then, would they not have the right to be offered? for that which was to be made clean would have had no more thought of sin.
And the children of Israel got up in the morning and put up their tents at Gibeah.
And on the day of Elkanah he gave up his wife and all her sons and her daughters.
Now when the day came, Saul put the people in three bands; and he came into the middle of the tents in the morning watch, and he put the children of Ammon to death till the day became full; and the rest were scattered, so that two of them were not gone.
And Saul sent men to take David; and when they saw a band of prophets, Samuel and Samuel, the spirit of the Lord came on them, and they became a prophet.
And he said to him, When your word comes to pass, what do you give to the child? or what will he keep himself?
And Saul said to Samuel, Yes, I have given ear to the voice of the Lord, and have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have overcome Amalek and overcame Amalek.
Make yourselves strong and be men, you Philistines, that you may not be servants of the Hebrews, as they have been servants to you: be men, and fight.
So now, my lord, as the Lord is living, and as your soul is life, because the Lord has kept you from the blood of sin, and from the blood of your hands, so let your haters and those who are evil to my lord be as the sinner.
And they said, We will give them gladly. And they put out a robe, and all the people were put to shame.
For there is no place where he takes the angels, but he takes care of the seed of Abraham.
For you say in the good news of Christ till now.
This is what you will do: every man and woman who has sex with a man will be put to death.
And Jonathan gave an oath to David, because he had love for him, for he had loved him with the love of his soul.
And Joseph went up to Beth-el, and the Lord was with them.
And it was so; for he got up early in the morning, crushing the wool from the wool, and draining out the dew from the wool, a vessel full of water.
And he said, Take me the burned offering and the peace-offerings and the burned offering.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he took them into the hands of Shushan, the king of Aram, and the children of Israel, for eight years.
And when he came to him, he said to him, Let no man be troubled in him: I, your servant, will go and fight against the Philistines.
And great wealth has become the shame of the Christ than the wealth in Egypt; for he was looking for the reward of a reward.
And the Spirit of the Lord was on laughing, and he went over Gilead and Manasseh, and went over Mizpah, and went over to the children of Ammon.
So they went in flight and took him from there; and when he got up among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his arms and up.
In those days there is no king in Israel, and in those days the family of the tribe of Dan is looking for itself for itself, for it has not come to that day among the tribes of Israel by their heritage.
And his mother will give him a little robe, and she will take it to him from time to time, when her husband goes up with her husband to make a meal offering.
And she said, I will certainly go with you, but you will not be for your honour: for the Lord will give the price of Sisera into the hands of a woman. And she got up and went with her face to Kedesh.
And they put the children of Benjamin round about, driving them in flight, driving them down at their resting-place, as far as the east.
And when they came to Micah's house, they took the image of the image and the ephod and the images and the metal images, and said to them, What are you doing?
What then? No, but every way, or in the true faith, Christ is preaching; and I will be glad and will be glad.
And all the people of Shechem said to him in the ears of all the people of Shechem, for they said, He is our brother.
For the seventh day he gave orders on the seventh day, and the seventh day he took rest from all his works.
And when he had gone out, the servants of the living room were shut up, and the doors were shut up, and they said, Truly he has put his feet in the winter.
But those things which have been given to me, I have the thought for Christ.
And the spirit of the Lord came on him, and he was judged with Israel: and he went out to war, and the Lord gave him the king of the armies of the king of Egypt, and he overcame the people of Ethiopia.
And all the people of Midian and Amalek and the people of the east came together; and they went over Jordan and put up their tents in the valley of Jezreel.
And he said to them, Come after me; for the Lord has given the Moabites the Moabites into your hands. And they went down after him and took the river of Jordan against the Moabites, and did not let anyone go over.
And as for your asses, which were three days old, do not put your mind on them, for they are seen. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not on you and on all your father's house?
And take the ark of the Lord and put it on the wagon, and put the gold jewels, which you give to him for a sin-offering, in a walled place by its side; and send it away so that it may go.
And Jonathan said to David, Come and let us go out into the field; and when they went out into the field,
And the children of Israel gave directions to the Lord, while the ark of the agreement of God was there.
And Eliab, his oldest brother, had news when he said to the men, And the wrath of Eliab was burning against David, and he said, Why have you come down? and with whom have you left the flock in the waste land? I have knowledge of your pride and the heart of your heart, for you are come down to see the war.
And they said to him, Be quiet, and put your finger on your mouth, and come with us, that we may have you for a father and a priest: for it is better for you to be a priest in the house of one man, or in the tribe of Israel.
And even to their judges they have not given ear, but have gone after other gods and worship them: they have gone quickly quickly out of the way which their fathers went to keep the orders of the Lord, which they have not done.
And the Philistines came up and put up their tents in Judah; and they went in flight.
And they put to death a young ox and gave birth to the child.
And he said, Give life; and you, peace; and your house, peace; and all that you have, peace.
So the people took food in their hands and their horns; and he sent all the men of Israel to his tent, but they took away the three hundred men; and the tents of Midian were under him in the valley.
And today you are turning away from your God, who is your saviour from all your troubles and all your troubles, and you say, No, but a king you have put over us; and now, give yourselves before the Lord, by your tribes and by your thousands.
And the children of Kir-heres were a strong man, and he was the son of a loose woman: and Gilead was the father of Japhlet.
So Christ did not give glory to himself to be the high priest; but he who said to him, You are my Son, to day I have given you birth.
And the children of Dan put up for themselves the images; and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan till the day of the fate of the land.
And she made a vow, saying, O Lord of armies, if you will see the evil of your servant, and keep me in memory of me, and not forget your servant, but give to your servant a son, I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and there will not be a worm on his head.
And the trees went out on a certain time to put oil on their king; and they said to the olive-tree, You have overcome us.
And the sons of Benjamin went out against the people, and they were taken away from the town; and they came against the people and put to death, as at other times, in the roads where they went up to the house of God, and the other to the town of Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
And he said to her, If you go with me, I will go; but if you do not go with me, I will not go.
And he said, Against whom have you made a attack today? And David said, About the south of Judah, and against the south of the father of Jerahmeel, and against the land of the Kenites.
And the Lord has gone up to Saul in the town of Gibeah, saying, Is not David in the secret places among us in the walled places of the town, at the mountain of Hamath, which is on the south side of the waste?
And three thousand of Judah went down to the rock of Etam, and said to him, Do you not see that the Philistines are ruling over us? What is this that you have done to us? And he said to them, As they did to me, so I have done to them.
So that day the Lord made salvation to Israel, and the fighting went by Beth-aven.
And do not take away your mercy from my family for ever, for the Lord will send destruction on all the haters of David from the face of the earth.
In the days of his flesh, when he had put up his prayer and prayer with a loud voice, weeping and crying to him who was able to keep him from death, and had been hearing of his fear,
Now I am certain that God will do me good, for I have a priest among the Levites.
And when he went away, his servants went back, and when they saw that the doors of the room were shut, they said, Truly he is waiting for himself in the cold.
Let us keep the memory of our hope without doubting, for he is true to his word.
For this cause we take a kingdom which may not be moved; let us have grace, so that we may be holy in the fear of God with fear and fear.
And the man went away from Beth-lehem, Judah, to be a living-place where there was a living-place; and he came to the house of Micah to the house of Micah, as he went on.
And at Nob, the town of the priests, he overcame him with the sword, men and women and children and babies and oxen and asses and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
In the days of the grain-cutting, when he came to his wife, he said, I will go in to my wife in the bedroom, but her father would not let him go in.
And laughing said to the responsible men of Gilead, If you send me back again to fight against the children of Ammon, and the Lord will give them up before me, will I be your head?
And I went out after him, and overcame him, and took it out of his mouth; and when he came up against me, I took him by his beard and put him to death and put him to death.
And all the men of Israel came up from their place, and put themselves in their place at Baal Tamar, and the waiting of Israel came out of its place, out of the place of Gibeah.
And some women took their dead by the dead; and others were troubled, not taking away their salvation, so that they might have a better life.
And David came to a quiet cry, to Abimelech the priest, and said to him, Why are you, and no one with you?
And shutting his hand, he had the young man with him, saying,
And the people sent word to Shiloh, and they took the ark of the agreement of the Lord of armies, who is seated over the winged ones: and the two sons of the agreement, the Hebronites and Phinehas, were with the ark of the agreement of God.
But if I have to be living in the flesh, this is for me, and I am not able to say anything.
And Saul said, I have done wrong; come back, O David, my son; for I will not do any more trouble for you, because my life is great in your eyes today. See, I have been acting as a foolish man, and have gone away.
Now Abimelech, the son of Jerub-baal, went to Shechem, to his mother's brothers and said to them,
So Isaac gave Jacob his blessing and his blessing to Esau.
And the angel of the Lord said to Adam, All that I said to the woman let her be kept.
And David put them to death from the evening even till evening; and there was not a man of them, even four hundred young men, who went on camels and went in flight.
But he took the form of a servant and was in the form of men, and was seen as a man.
And she let him down through a window, and he went away and went away.
And Saul said to the Cushite, Give ear, O son of Ahitub, and he said, Here I am, my lord.
So that it may be no cause for you or a cause of sin for my lord, or that you have put to death the blood without cause, or that my lord has taken payment for himself; and when the Lord will do well with my lord, remember your servant.
And Isaac gave blessing to Jacob and Esau.
And in the morning when the sun is lifted up, you will get up early and rush on the town; and, when he and his people who are with him come out against you, then let them do to them as you are to be.
He puts up the poor from the dust, lifting up the poor from the dust; he takes his seat with rulers and the seat of glory: for the rods of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has made the earth.
And this will we do, if God lets us go.
So then Christ was made free from the sins of many; and the second time he will come without sin to those who hope for him.
See, the days are coming, that I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house, so that there may not be an old man in your house.
And he said to all who were against him, Will you make a cause for Baal? or will you give him salvation? let him be put to death by the morning; if he is a god, let him be put to death for himself, for a man has broken down his altar.
And he said to her, Give me a drink, I pray you, a little water, for I am in need of water. And she put the bottle of milk and gave him drink and covered him.
Why have you been living between the limits of the land, to give ear to the horns of the cattle? For the divisions of Reuben and the great parts of the earth are great.
And the seven days were weeping before him for seven days; and on the seventh day he said to her, Because she had put a thing on him, and gave thought to the story to the children of her people.
And he took the people and put them in three bands, and put their place in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the town, he got up against them and overcame them.
And after the second veil, the House which is the most holy place,
And he overcame the priests with the edge of his sword, men and women and children and babies and ox and ass and sheep with the sword.
And the Spirit of the Lord came to him in the tents of Dan, between Zorah and Sharon.
And before they had burned the fat, the servant's servant came and said to the man who was offering, Give flesh to the priest, and he will not make a meal of you, but be open.
And when the wife of Saul was weeping for it, he said, You have only hated me, and have no love for me; you have given the sense of wisdom to the children of my people, and have not made it clear to me. And he said to her, See, I have not said anything to my father and to my mother, and I will say to you.
And he said, They were my brothers and the children of my mother: as the Lord lives, I would not put you to death.
And over it were the faces of the cover over the cover; it was not necessary for a part of it.
And there was a great man named out of Gilead: he was the son of a loose woman, and Gilead was his father.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to get his ploughproperty, and his property, and his axe, and his sharp blade.
And David went over to the other side, and took his place on the top of a hill far off, a great space between them.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And the responsible men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Let us have seven days, and we will send representatives to all the country of Israel; and if there is no one to give us up, we will come out to you.
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man? and who is like you in Israel? why have you not kept your lord the king safe? for one of the people came to destruction against the king your lord.
And when he was ninety-nine years old, his eyes became clouded, and he was not able to see.
And he came up and said to his father and his mother, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now get her for me as my wife.
And they put the ark of the Lord on the ark of the Lord, with the vessels of gold and the images of the vessels.
But the man would not keep the night that night; but he got up and went to the town of Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses, and his wife was with him.
And David took all the sheep and herds of cattle before them, and said, This is David's property.
And when the man got up to get away, he and his wife and his servant, his father, his father, said to him, See, the day is coming to the evening; see, the day has come to an end; see, the day is getting to an end, so that your heart may be full of joy; and tomorrow you go early on your journey, and go to your house.
And Manasseh did not put in Beth-shean and its towns, and Taanach and its daughter-towns, and the people of Dor and its daughter-towns, and the people of Pathros and its daughter-towns, and the people of Megiddo and its towns, and the Canaanites were living in that land.
My heart is glad in the Lord, and my horn is lifted up in my God; my mouth is wide over my haters, because I have been glad in your salvation.
And the strong men stopped, and put their rest in Israel: and there was a mother in Israel, and there was a mother in Israel.
And David's two wives were taken prisoner, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
In addition to the law, for all things are made clean with blood, and without blood there is no forgiveness.
So David went away from there, and went to the rock of Adullam, with his brothers and all his father's house, and went down to him there.
And Samuel, hearing all the words of the people, said to them,
For because of the work of Christ he came near to death, and his life might come to him for what was needed for me.
All of you have made a design against me, and there is no one to me when my son makes a agreement with the son of Jesse; and there is no one who has pity on me, and there is no one to me that my son has put up my servant against me, as at this day.
And Saul said to his servant, Come and let us go. So they went to the town where the man of God was.
According to all the works which they have done from the day when I took them up out of the land of Egypt even to this day, because they have gone away from me, and have gone after other gods to you.
So they sent the ark of God to Ekron, and the ark of God came to Ekron, crying out, They have taken the ark of the God of Israel about to put us to death and to our people.
And he put his life in his hand, and went up against the Philistines; and the Lord gave a great victory for all Israel, and you saw it and were glad; and now why do you sin against the blood of a man without cause to put David to death?
Go and cry to the gods which you have taken; let them be your saviour in the time of your trouble.
Let him be glad in the Lord with all joy, and take note of his name.
So let us be full of fear, so that a word might be given to his rest, if any one of you might seem to have failed of it.
So that I may put Israel to the test, to see if they keep the way of the Lord, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And they will take care of him, every man in need, and every man who has an exactor, and every man bitter in soul, and he is over them for head, and there are with him four hundred men.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have done wrong: do you to us whatever seems good to you: only give us salvation today.
And Saul put his clothing in his robe, and put a robe of brass on his head, and put him in his robe.
And Saul said to God, Will I go down after the Philistines? will you give them up into the hands of Israel? But he gave him no answer that day.
And when he came up to a meeting place, the Philistines came to him with a loud voice; and the spirit of the Lord went on him, and the cords of his hands were like a flax that was burning with fire, and his spirit was changed from his hands.
And the Lord came and took his place, and gave his name to Samuel, Samuel, and said, Give ear, for your servant will give ear.
And he was in need of water and said to the Lord, You have given this great salvation into the hands of your servant: and now I will be put to death for ever, and I will be put to death in the hands of the uncircumcised.
But at the time when the daughter of Saul's daughter Michal was given to David, she gave birth to the wife of Bath-lah.
So on that day he sent for the king of Midian, saying, Let the god of Baal come against him, for he has broken down his altar.
For from now on he will be waiting till his haters are under his feet.
And Saul got up and went down to the waste land of Ziph, with three thousand chosen men of Israel, looking for David in the waste land of Ziph.
And the mother of Saul said, Give me word to me, what did Samuel say to you?
And Joram, son of Joash, went back from the fight, at the going up of the sun.
And when the angel of the Lord gave these words to all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and were crying.
And the children of Israel were living among the Canaanites, the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivite and the Jebusite:
So the Lord went away from those nations, and he did not send them out, and he did not give them into the hands of Joshua.
And we will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred thousand out of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, so that we may go against the army of Benjamin, and give it to it for its evil-doing, what is the waste.
And when the man got up to take away his father's law, he took care of him there again.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and he was judged by Israel, and went out to war: and the Lord gave him the place of Ramah, the king of Aram, into his hand, and his hand overcame the people of Ariel.
And when he came to him, he was seated in the higher room of the wall which was for himself, and said, I have a word of God to you. And he got up from the high seat.
And I said, Take the king of Amalek to me, the king of the Amalekites: and he says, Truly, the bitter of death is past.
And they took the things which he had made, and the priest, which he had, and came to the people who were at quiet and safe; and they overcame them with the sword and burned the town with fire.
And Saul overcame Amalek, from Havilah, as you go to Shur, which is before Egypt.
And after him, Jair went up from Gilead, judging Israel for twenty-two years.
For this cause he is able to give salvation to those who go near to God through him, because he is ever living for his life.
There is dust and food for our asses, and bread and wine for me, for your servant and for the young man who is with your servant; there is no need of anything.
But to the Son, O God, your seat is for ever and ever; and the rod of righteousness is the rod of your kingdom.
The Lord has done to you as he said by my hand: the Lord has taken away the kingdom from your hand, and has given it to your neighbour David.
And after that, they made a cry to the Lord, who made them a saviour, the son of Gera, the son of Shelah, who used the right hand as well as the right. And the children of Israel sent to Eglon, king of Moab.
looking hard for the fear of the grace of God, that no root of bitter drops may come to trouble, and it may be made unclean by them.
And the army of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
So they went and took him away from there; and when he took his position among the people, he was taller than all the people round about.
And he said, Let me go, for our family has a meal in the town, and my brother he has given me orders to be there; and now, if I have found grace in your eyes, let me go and see my brothers: why is he come to the king's table?
For the man of whom these things are said are to another tribe, from which there is no man at the altar.
And six hundred men made ready for war, of the men of Dan, at the doorway of the doorway.
And he said to her, If you go with me, I will go; but if you do not go with me, I will not go.
And David, having put his sword on his arms, was attempting to put his hands on his arms: for he was not seen by it. And David said to Saul, I am not able to go, for I am not with it. And he put them off.
And David was living in the waste country in the waste places, and he was living in the mountains in the waste land of Ziph; and Saul kept searching for him every day, but God did not give him into his hands.
And he went to him, the children of the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and overcame Israel, and took the town of palm-trees.
And now, let me take care of you, and take no wine or strong drink, and do nothing unclean.
And there was a great priest over the house of God.
And God gave witness to them by signs and wonders, by the works of power and by the gifts of the Holy Spirit, by his will?
So Abimelech and all the people who were with him got up by night and were waiting for Shechem in four bands.
For great numbers have been made priests, because they have been kept from death.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the towns twenty thousand men of war, by the people of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
And they gave the name of the place to the Lord, and there they gave offerings to the Lord.
And Saul said to him, Why have you made a design against me, you and the son of Jesse, in which you gave him bread and a sword, questioning God for him, so that he would come against me as a prisoner, as at this day?
And if you are not able to say to me, you have given me thirty robes of linen and thirty robes of clothing. And they say to him, Give your account, and we will give ear to it.
And she said, The glory has been taken away from Israel, because the ark of God is taken.
And again there was a second time, and said, See, people are coming down in the middle of the land, and one company comes by the way of the great tree.
And David was living in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelite.
And they saw among the living men of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young women who had no knowledge of a man, and they took them to the tent-circle at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
It is better to take a place more than the angels, and his heritage is greater than they.
And Samuel said, When you were a little one in your eyes, were you not the head of the tribes of Israel? and the Lord made you king over Israel.
And the Lord said to the children of Israel, The people are still more, and I will make them go down to the water, and I will make them search for you there: and it will be that of whom I say to you, This will go with you; and whoever I say to you will not go with you; the same will not go with you.
The Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel, and he said to them, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I took you out of Egypt, and took you out of the prison-house;
And Saul took him that day, and would not let him go back to his father's house.
But today you have been turning away from your God, who made you free out of all your troubles and your troubles, and said to him, No, but a king will you put over us. Now now, give yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands.
And David put them in flight from the evening till evening till evening; and there was not a man of them, but four hundred young men who went on camels, and went in flight.
For it is a witness to you: You are a priest for ever by the order of Malchijah.
And the woman said, Whom am I to give you up? And he said, Give me up to Samuel.
And she said, Let your servant see grace in your eyes. And the woman goes on her way and does not see it again.
And God gave ear to the voice of Adam; and the angel of God came again to the woman while she was seated in the field, but her husband was not with her.
And Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod and false gods and made holy among his sons, who became his priest.
So now, take away my sin, and come again with me, so that I may give worship to the Lord.
And he put on the holy tent and all the vessels of worship with the blood.
And her sister's wife was to make her angry, because the Lord had shut her up.
And the child went away, and David got up from the south side, and he went down on his face to the earth, and gave worship to his face three times; and they were kissing one another, weeping together, but David was weeping.
And he said to them, Why are you doing these sort of things which I have to give to them, such evil things?
And again, I will put my hope in him; and again, I and the children which God has given me.
And the Edomite gave answer to the words of Edom, and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub.
Not one of you is looking for his own, but you all to another.
The shame of Christ is greater than the wealth of Egypt, for he had respect for the reward of the reward.
And while they were taking care of themselves, the men of the town, the twisted land, came round the house, crushing the door, saying to the man, the man of the house, Take out the man who came to your house, so that we may have sex with him.
And they said to the men who had come to the king of Jabesh-gilead, This is what you will say to the men of Jabesh-gilead: Tomorrow the sun is burning. 'And the men went and gave orders to the men of Jabesh-gilead.
For though he was ill, he came near to death, but God had mercy on him and not on him only, but also on me, so that I would not have sorrow on sorrow.
And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, a hundred and ten years old.
And Naphtali did not take away the people of Beth-shemesh, or the people of Beth-shemesh; and he was living among the Canaanites, and the people of the land, but the people of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-shemesh became forced to work for them.
And when these signs will come to you, do whatever your hand may be seen, for the Lord is with you.
But when the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, the Lord gave them up a saviour, and said, Ehud, the son of Gera, the man of Benjamin, a man from his left hand. And the children of Israel sent taxes by him to Eglon, the king of Moab.
And when she had made a great number of prayers before the Lord,
And the Lord came to another woman, and she gave birth to three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel became great before the Lord.
For God has given grace to us, so that they may not be made without us.
For this man was given more glory than Moses, because he who was building the house is greater than the house.
And he overcame them from Aroer till you came to Menahem, twenty towns, and twenty towns, and as far as Abel, with a very great slaughter: and the children of Ammon were made low by the children of Israel.
And they gave orders to him, and he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, lifting up his voice and said, Give ear to me, O people of Shechem, and God will give ear to you.
And Benjamin went back at that time, and gave them the women whom they had kept safe from the women of Jabesh-gilead, and they had nothing to do with them.
And David made request to the Lord again. And the Lord said to him, Up, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
& lt; A Psalm. Of David. & gt; This is the cause of the Lord, the God of Israel, from the face of the Lord.
For the Holy Spirit is a witness to us, because he had said before,
And Saul said to the Kenites, Go away and go down from among the Amalekites, or I will send you to destruction with them: for you had mercy on all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. And the Kenites went away from the Amalekites.
And he may not give himself to himself, as the high priest is to go into the holy place of the holy place by year with blood.
And he said to them, I will not have authority over you, and my son will not rule over you; the Lord will rule over you.
And Saul said to them, May you be praised by the Lord, for you have given me mercy.
Now I have news that you are cutting off wool: your keepers have been with us, and we did not give them trouble, and there was no loss from them; all the time when they were in Carmel.
And he will take your fields and your vine-gardens and your olive-trees, and give them to his servants.
For I am in trouble between two, having a desire to go away and to be with Christ: it is far better.
And when the day came, he gave orders to his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
And Saul went back from following the Philistines and said to him, See, David is in the waste land of En-gedi.
And Saul said, Make a decision between me and Jonathan my son; and Jonathan was taken.
And he took his rod in his hand, and gave him five smooth stones out of the stream, and put them in the bag of the flock, which he had, even in a bag, and his hand was in his hand; and he went near to the Philistines.
Now then, give ear to their voice; but you will give ear to them and give them the way of the king who will be king over them.
You have loved righteousness and hate evil; so God, your God, has given you the oil of joy higher than your friends.
The death of the Lord is to come back to life, causing death to go down to the underworld.
But he himself went back from the waste places at Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word to you, O king. And he said, Keep quiet; and all who were waiting by him went out from him.
By faith Joseph, when he was dead, said the children of Israel, and gave orders about his bones.
By which will we be made holy through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house; and the child was waiting for the Lord, the face of Heli the priest.
Have no fear; for the hand of Saul will not overtake you, and you will be king over Israel, and I will be with you, and my father will see this.
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man? and who is like you in Israel? why did you not keep watch over your lord the king? for one of the people came to destruction against your lord the king.
But now the kingdom of your kingdom will not be kept: for the Lord has made for him a man after his heart, and the Lord has made him ruler over his people: for you have not kept what the Lord has given you.
So go and go against Amalek, and put an end to all that is his; and do not take pity on him, but take away man and woman, the child and the nursing child, the ox and the sheep, the camel and the ass.
And all the people of Israel, seeing the man, went in flight from his face, fearing him greatly.
And he said, Let me be put to death with the Philistines. And he made his strength hard with all his strength, and the house went down on the rulers and all the people who were with him; and the dead man whom he had put to death were more than they were put to death.
Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went to his house at Gibeah of Saul.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; and they came as locusts for a number of locusts, they and their camels had no number, and they went into the land to put an end to it.
And you are not to be controlled by blood, but with the sin of sin.
And they put up to themselves the pictured image, and Jonathan, the son of Gershon, the son of Moses; he and his sons were priests in the tribe of Dan, till the day of their heritage.
But Saul said, No man will be put to death on this day; for this day the Lord has given salvation to Israel.
And you will take these ten parts of milk to the captain of the thousand; and you will see how your brothers are doing, and take their payment.
Even the first agreement had the law of God and the holy place of the earth.
But without faith it is not able to please God; for he who comes to God will have faith that he is, and a reward to those who are looking for him.
For he who has these things has been given to another tribe, from which there is no man at the altar.
And he says to the angels, Who makes his angels spirits and his servants a flame of fire:
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to fight against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was very sad.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they had been put to death; for the children of Israel had given up to Benjamin, because they had put their faith in the secret men at Gibeah.
And David said to Abigail, Happy be the Lord, the God of Israel, who has sent you today to see me;
And Samuel said, What is this that is to say this to the sheep, and to the sound of my ears, and the sound of the herds which I give hearing?
And now, give ear to their voice; only, you will certainly give ear to them, and make clear to them the ways of the king who is ruling over them.
And Saul said, Give ear now, you son of Ahitub. And he said, Here I am, my lord.
And he said to her all his heart, Let not my head go up on my head, for I have been a husband to God from the birth of my mother: if I have been cut off, then have my power turned away from me, and I have been feeble and have been as one of the sons of men.
And my God will give up all your need for his wealth in the glory of Christ Jesus.
And the name of his first son was Joel; and the name of his second was Abijah; and they came to Beer-sheba.
And the people of Israel took their heart, and put up their position in the place where they had put themselves in position the first day.
So I, even I, am it from me to sin against the Lord, to make prayer for you, and I have given you orders in the good and upright way.
And though they were all true by their faith, they did not get what was said,
And Samuel said, As your sword is taken away, so is your mother taken away from women. And Samuel was cutting down before the Lord at Gilgal.
And his father's father, the father of the young woman, kept his life with him for three days; and they had food and drink and night.
And when they gave it to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, lifting up his voice and said to them, Give ear to me, O men of Shechem, that God may give ear to you.
And there was a sign in the tents through the fields: and all the people of the army, who had gone out to get goods, were surprised, and the earth was shaking, and it was seen as a sign from God.
By faith, Abel gave to God more grace than Cain, by which he had given witness to him that he was upright; and God gave witness to his gifts, and he was dead and still talking.
Now when Samuel was offering the burned offering, the Philistines came near for the war against Israel: and the Lord was thunder against the Philistines on that day and put them in shame, so that they were overcome before Israel.
The five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite and the Zidonians and the Hivite living on Lebanon, from Mount Hermon to Hamath.
And when he had long patience, he took the oath.
Now be waiting now, so that I may make a request to you before the Lord for all the good acts of the Lord which he did to you and your fathers.
And on the morning the people went out into the field, and said to Abimelech,
And now, O king, come down, O king, with all the desire of your soul to come down; and let us put him over to the king's hands.
There is great glory in all, and the bed is free: but God will judge the man who is in the earth.
But he would not, and said, I will not take food, but his servants and the woman put him in flight, and when they had given ear to their voice, he got up from the earth and took his seat on the bed.
And Samuel said to Saul, You have done a foolish thing: you have not kept the orders of the Lord your God which he gave you; for now the Lord has made your kingdom strong on Israel for ever.
For this cause I will not send destruction on them from before you, so that you may be your haters, and their gods will be your destruction.
As to the rest, my brothers, have joy in the Lord: the same things you have to say to me is true to me and you are certain.
And when the Philistines saw David, he did not put him to shame: for he was only a young man, and red, and a beautiful face.
And when they went into the house of Micah, and took the image and the ephod and the images and the images and the metal image, the priest said to them, What are you doing?
And the breast took up the leg and put it before Saul. And he said, See that what has been kept, put it before yourself and take it before yourself, because the time has been kept for you; for I said, I have taken the people. And Saul took food with Samuel that day.
And when he came, he was seated in his seat by the wayside, because his heart was moved over the ark of God: and the man came to give news in the town, and all the town was crying out.
And she said, I will certainly go with you, but you will not be for your honour: for the Lord will give the price of Sisera into the hands of a woman. And she got up and went with her face to Kedesh.
And the Philistines came up early and evening, and he was waiting for forty days.
For this is the agreement which I will make with the children of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws into their hearts and put them in their hearts; and I will be to them a God, and they will be my people.
And I went out after him, and overcame him, and got up from his mouth, and he got up against me; and I took his face on his face and put him to death and put him to death.
But keep in mind the old days in which you were full of knowledge, and you were overcome with sorrow.
And her lord got up in the morning, opening the doors of the house, and went out to go his way; and, behold, the woman, his wife, had come down at the door of the house with her hands on the doorstep.
And the people, the men of Israel, made themselves strong, and put up the fight in the place where they had put themselves on the first day.
So David and his men got up in the night, and they got up early in the morning and went back to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
Then said he to Zebah and Zalmunna, What sort of men were they to put to death at Tabor? And they said, As you are, so were they; every one like the sons of a king.
For those in Aroer, for those who were in En-dor, and for Eshtemoa,
Which is a sign of the present world, where offerings and offerings are offered to nothing, because of the sense of the heart, to make the worship complete.
And Saul said to his servants, See, I pray you, let a man take a harp and give him to me.
And your daughters will take care of him, to make him perfumes, and to take care of him, and to take care of him.
Then Abimelech said to David that Saul had put the priests of the Lord to death.
But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of the earth, and his wife had said these things to him, his heart was dead inside him, and he became like a stone.
And when he had gone away from his place, they went on the side of the images and went to the place of the town.
And the voice of the Lord came to Saul in the town of Gibeah, saying, Does not David put himself in flight in the hill country of the Lord?
For when you are to be teachers, you have need to be teachers of the first teaching of God, and have need of milk and not of strong food.
So the Lord, the God of Israel, has put an end to the Amorites, the children of Israel, attacking him, and will you take this land for yourself?
And the Spirit of God came on Saul when he had news of the news, and his wrath was burning.
And when the horn is sounding in my hand, you will blow the horns on every side of the tent-circle.
And she put it on the band, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, the Philistines; and he got up from his sleep and went away with the hammer of the wood and the house.
And laughing went over to the children of Ammon to make war against them: and the Lord gave them into his hands.
And they said to one another, Who has done this? And they made search and looking for it, and said, This is what Joash has done.
And David went in flight from the town of Ramah, and said before him, What have I done? what is my sin? what is my sin? what is my sin before your father, that he is looking for my life?
And at the end of the days, Hanun became pregnant and gave birth to a son, and named him Samuel, because of the Lord I had given him directions.
Go again and see, and see his place, and see where his house is, and who has seen him there: for I have been made clear to him that he is wise.
But we may not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had made an oath, saying, Cursed be he who gives a wife to Benjamin.
So that you may be in you in Christ Jesus.
But you have knowledge of the sign of him, that, as a child is a father for a father, so he gave me the news of the good news.
But if it is full of thorns and thorns, it is turned to a curse, and its end is to be burned.
So let us go on the word of Christ, let us go on that which is full of growth, not a builder of turning away from dead works and faith in God.
And David was doing well in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
And she said, Let me, my lord, be living, my lord, for I am the woman who has been with you, requesting to the Lord.
By faith he went out from the land of Egypt, and did not have fear of the king's wrath: for he was seen as if he had seen him who had no knowledge.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to them, We have turned back to you, and you have gone with us and have overcome the children of Ammon, and have been our head to all the people of Gilead.
Will I take my bread, my water, and my flesh, which I have put to death for my wool, and give it to men whom I do not see?
See that God is able to get up from the dead, and he has given him up from the dead.
Keeping the word of life, so that I might have to give glory in the day of Christ, so that I did not go in vain for nothing.
And she said to him, See, you have made sport of me, and have given me a false thing; but now at least give me orders with which you may be put to shame.
And David said to Abishai, Do not put him to death: for who has stretched out his hand against the Lord, and has been kept safe?
And all the people got up as one man, saying, We will not go to his tent, and we will not go back to his house.
And the king was seated on his seat, as at other times, on a seat by the wall; and Jonathan got up, and Abner was seated by Saul's side, and David's place was wasted.
And when all who had knowledge of him before saw that he was a prophet of the prophets, the people said to one another, What is this that has come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And David put his hand into the bag, and took away a stone, and put it on it, and overcame the Philistines in his brow, and the stone went down into his brow, and he went on his face to the earth.
So God overcame Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel on that day.
For if a man sees his hater, will he let him go back safely? May the Lord give you good reward for what you have done to me today.
And he stopped talking and came to the high place.
And to whom did he make an oath, so that they may not go into his rest, but to those who have been made evil?
And the priest said to David, There is no bread under my hand, but there is holy bread: if the young men have been kept only from women.
And the Lord gave them into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan, who was ruling in Hazor, and the captain of Sisera, who was living in the land of Ararat.
But the child had no knowledge of anything; only Jonathan and David had knowledge of the thing.
And Abimelech was living in the land of deceit; and the children of Canaan put out his fields and his brothers, so that they would not be living in Shechem.
They will be cut off, but you will be full; and all flesh will be old as a robe.
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, with overseers and servants;
And when their hearts were full of joy, they said, Make a request for Jonathan, that he may make us happy. And they sent for Jonathan, the son of the prison, and put him in position between the pillars.
And the children of Judah made war against Jerusalem, took it and put it on the edge of the sword, and put the town on fire.
For the earth of the rain which comes frequently on it, and gives food to those who are planted on it, will get blessing from God.
In those days the Philistines came together to get ready for war against Israel, and said to David, Be certain now, that you may go out with me to the war, you and your men.
Do not give thought to the voice of God, because he is pleasing to God.
Out of Ephraim, whose root was in Amalek; and after you, Benjamin was among your people. Out of Machir came down chiefs, and from Zebulun, who took care of the rod of the ruler.
For a little and a little time, and he who is to come, will come, and will not be slow.
I have no desire for a present, but I have a desire for your sakes.
But the people would not give ear to the voice of Samuel; and they said, No; but we will have a king over us.
And he said to her, How long will you get wine? get away from your wine.
And the number of the men of Israel, in addition to Benjamin, were four hundred thousand men of war; all these were men of war.
And he put out his left hand and took the sword from his right leg, and put it into his stomach.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, building a town, naming it Luz, which is its name to this day.
In the same way you will be glad and be glad with me.
For the word of God is quick and strong, and without number, than all that are given swords, even to the parted of soul and spirit, and of the strength and the best, and the sense of the thoughts of the heart.
And the wall of Jericho came down, and they were round about seven days.
And David said to Abiathar, I was certain that day when the Edomites were there, he would say to Saul, I have been responsible for all the souls of your father's house.
And David said to Abishai, Do not put him to death, for who is able to put out his hand against the Lord, and be free?
And they got up early in the morning, and there was haircloth on the earth before the ark of the Lord; and they took their place of Dagon and went back to his place.
And he said, Give me word of what you have done. And Jonathan said, I have tasted a little honey with the edge of the stick which was in my hand; and here I am to be put to death.
And I said, See, I am coming in the book of the book, to do your will, O God.
It is a fear to fall into the hands of the living God.
And the children of Dan went away: and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he went back to his house.
But I have knowledge of those things which are to me for Christ.
And let us go near with a true heart, full of faith, having the heart of evil, and having the body washed with clean water;
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw a strong man or a man, he took him to himself.
And Saul took the spear and said, I will put David to death and the wall. But David turned away from him twice.
And on the second day of the month, on the second day of the month, Saul said to his son Jonathan, Why does not the son of Jesse come to food or yesterday or to day?
And the Lord said to Samuel, Here I am.
In order to take Israel by them, if they keep the way of the Lord, as their fathers kept or not.
And when David had said these words to Saul, Saul said, Is that your voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and was crying.
And David was greatly troubled, for the people were stoning him, because the soul of all the people was troubled, every man for his sons and his daughters: but David made himself strong in the Lord his God.
And he will take your fields and your vine-gardens and your best trees and give them to his servants.
And they took their bones and put them in the place of Jabesh-gilead in Jabesh, and without food for seven days.
Now go to the ears of the people, and say, Whoever is in fear and in fear, let him go back from the hill-country of Gilead, and let twenty thousand men go back from the land of Gilead.
For when the priesthood is changed, there is a change of the law.
And Saul sent representatives to take David, and they saw the voices of the prophets, and the voices of Samuel and Samuel; and the Spirit of God was on the angels of Saul, and they were prophets.
So that your love may be increased more and more in knowledge and all knowledge;
And he took a young man from Succoth, questioning him, and he gave orders to him the chiefs of Succoth and the responsible men of the town, seventy and seven.
And the angel of the Lord said to another, If you keep me, I will not have enough of your bread; and if you make a burned offering to the Lord, give it to the Lord; for the Lord has not seen that he is the angel of the Lord.
And there was no use in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make a sword or a spear.
And it came to pass, when Samuel got up early in the morning to Saul in the morning, when the news was given to him, Saul came to the top of Mount Carmel and went down to Gilgal. And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul was offering a burned offering to the Lord from the best of the goods which he had taken from Amalek.
For you yourselves are certain that after that, when he would have taken his heritage, he was put to shame: for he did not have a place to change their hearts, though he kept it with weeping.
And he said to his servants, You saw that the man was angry: why have you brought him to me?
And David took her from her hand, and said to her, Go up in peace to your house; see, I have given ear to your voice, and I have given you your approval.
And they took their bones and put them to death under a tree in Jabesh, and without food for seven days.
And some women took their dead by the dead; and others were troubled, not taking their salvation, so that they might get a better life.
And when David had said these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and weeping.
And the children of Midian overcame the children of Israel, so that they had no longer lifted up their heads; and the land was quiet forty years in the days of the rule of the Lord.
But he whose seed was not numbered from them was a tenth of Abraham's heritage, and he gave blessing to the man who had the word.
And Samuel said to the people, Have no fear: you have done all this evil: have not turned away from the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart.
For this reason he is able to give them salvation to the ends of the last to come to God, seeing that he is ever living for them.
And when the Lord gave them judges, then the Lord was with the judge, and gave them salvation from the hand of their haters all the days of the judge: for it was turned to the Lord because of their cries, because of their cries, and crushed them.
Be living with me, fear not; for he who is looking for my life is looking for your life; for you are a guide with me.
For this cause, holy brothers, take part in the place of heaven, give thought to the Apostle and the high priest of our faith, Jesus;
And he had a son, and his name Saul was a young and beautiful child, and there was not a man among the children of Israel than he was, from his arms and upward, higher than all the people.
But he would not, and said, I will not take food; then his servants and the woman have forced him, and he gave ear to their voice; and he got up from the earth and was seated on the bed.
So let us be full of fear, while there is a word of a word to come into his rest, so that no one of you may come to flight.
So that the things which are in heaven may be made clean with these things; but the things which are in heaven are better than these.
And all the people sent and said to the children of Benjamin, who were in the rock of Rimmon, and gave them peace.
And the woman said to him, See, you have knowledge of what Saul has done, and how he has taken away the secret spirits and the readers of spirits from the land: why then do you put a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
And the Lord was angry with them and gave them over to the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
And he gave back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I have made the silver for the Lord from my hand for my son, to make a image and a metal image: now I will give it back to you.
And Abigail came quickly, taking two hundred cakes, and two cups of wine, five sheep, and five measures of dry cakes, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred cakes of cakes, and put them on asses.
And they were stoning with stones, and they were tested by the sword; and they were put to death with the sword, and they went round with sheep skins and goats' skins, and became poor and cruel and cruel.
So now, get up early in the morning with your master's servants who are coming with you; and when you get up early in the morning and have light, go away.
And Abigail took two hundred cakes of bread, and two wine, five sheep, and five measures of fire, a hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and put them on the asses.
And in this place, if they come into my rest,
By faith Abel gave to God a greater grace than Cain, by which he had given witness to righteousness; and God gave witness to his gifts, and by his death he was still talking.
In that day, I will give thought to myself all things which I have said about his house: when I begin, I will make an end.
And all the people cut down every one of his branches, and went after Abimelech, and put himself in the high place, burning by them the high place with fire, and all the men of Shechem, a thousand men and women.
Then the Lord gave him the name of Samuel. And Samuel came to him, and said, Here am I, for you have been my servant. And he said, I did not come in crying, my son.
And let her take nothing that comes from the vine, or drink wine or strong drink, or do anything unclean; and whatever I have given her orders, let her keep it.
Now then, if you have been true and true in your faith in that you have made Abimelech king, and have done well with baal and his house, and have done to him what he has done,
But I am to take care of all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom I have undergone the loss of all things, and make them unclean, so that I may have Christ.
And Samuel said to the people, Come and let us go to Gilgal, and make the kingdom new again.
Now there was a man of Ramah in the hill-country of Ephraim, and Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Eliel, the son of the children of Ephraim,
And he said, Here am I, for you have called me. And it was clear that the Lord had given birth to the child and said to Samuel, Go and sleep; and if he will give you any more, say, Give word, O Lord, for your servant is hearing. So Samuel went in sleep in his place.
See, the days are coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of the house of your father, so that there will be no one in your house for ever.
And he built an altar to the Lord, and gave it to the Lord, the Lord's name: to this day it is in the middle of the house of the Rechabites.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Take the ark of God here, for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And the Lord said, Judah will go up, and I will give the land into his hands.
And all that generation came to their fathers, and others who had no knowledge of the Lord and the works which he had done for Israel.
And he said to his wife, We will certainly be put to death, because we have seen God.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said to the Lord, O Lord God, keep me in mind and make my prayer to you, O God, that I may take one punishment on the Philistines for my two eyes.
And we are glad about you, dear friends, the things which are better and with salvation, though we say even so.
Now Saul was on the hill of Siddim, which is opposite the waste way by the road; but David was living in the waste land. When he saw that Saul had come to the waste land after him,
Say to the people and say in the hearing of all, I have the fear of all; let him go back, and let ten thousand men go from the hill-country of Gilead, and let ten thousand go back.
And they gave birth to the name of the town Dan, after the name of Dan their father, and the name of the town was Laish.
And when they were attacking the town, before the town was named,
Israel was put to flight round about the town of Gibeah.
And the children of Israel went out to fight with Benjamin; and the men of Israel put themselves in array against them at Gibeah.
And when he had said the ark of God, he went down from the place on the side of the doorway, and his neck was broken, and he was dead: for he was an old man and a great man, and he had been judging Israel for forty years.
And Samuel said, Let Amalek, the king of Amalek, come out to me. And he was angry with him, saying, Truly the bitter soul of death is near.
And he said, I have done wrong, but now I am honoured before the chiefs of my people and Israel, and come back with me, so that I may give worship to the Lord your God.
Let him take your daughters for making perfume, and for their clothing, and for the bread-maker;
By faith Abraham, when he was named to go out into a place where he would have a heritage, he went out without knowledge where he went.
I am attempting to make a request to the name of the Lord, because of the same mind, for the purpose of the Lord.
And have been seen in him, not having a righteousness of my heritage, but that which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness of God by faith:
Without father and without mother, having no family lists of days or the end of life, but made as to the Son of God; and there is a priest for ever.
And he took a young goat and the drink offering and put them on a rock, offering to the Lord, who did wonders: and he and his wife saw it.
Now see how great this man was, to whom Abraham the father of God gave a tenth of the chief goods.
And the Lord said to him, I will be with you, and you will overcome Midian as if they were one man.
For God has not put into the hands of angels the world to come, which we say.
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to fight against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim, and there was great trouble.
But as for the things which we have been, there is only to them.
And the priest gave him the holy bread, for there was no bread there but the bread of the Presence, which was taken away from before the Lord, to make bread there on the day when it was taken away.
And a high priest over the house of God,
But David said to Abishai, Do not put him to death: for who has stretched out his hand against the Lord's anointed one, and has kept upright?
And for the children of Israel, seventy sons came out of his position, for he had much wives.
And they will not give teaching to one another, and to his brother, saying, Have knowledge of the Lord; for they will all have knowledge of me, from the least to the greatest.
And falling down at his feet, said, My lord, let this sin be on me, and let your servant be open with your ears, and give ear to the words of your servant.
Even to whom it was said, In Isaac will your seed be named:
Then she got up and put himself on face face to the earth, and said, See, your servant is a servant for a servant to keep the feet of the servants of my lord.
See that you do not keep him from the words of the prophet: for if those who have not been taken away from the earth did not get away from him, we were not able to get away from him.
And he went up there to Penuel, and said to them in the same way, and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had said.
And on the eighth day he took circumcision from the children of Israel, from the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, by the law of a man.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and the Philistines put to death Jonathan, Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
For to which of the angels he said at any time, You are my Son, and I have been your father. And again I will be to him a father, and he will be to me a Son.
I did not get what was needed, or had been made complete; but I went after myself, if I might be responsible for that which I was in Christ Jesus.
And he had seventy sons, who came out of his arms, for he had much wives.
And he said, They were my brothers, the children of my mother: the Lord is living, if you had kept them safe, I would not put you to death.
And Saul said, I have done wrong: go back, O David, my son; for I will no longer do you evil, because my life is great in your eyes this day. See, I have done a foolish thing, and have gone far away.
And she took it before Saul and before his servants, and they had food. Then they got up and went away that night.
And when they came there to the mountain, a band of prophets came on him; and the Spirit of God came with great force on him, and he was talking with them.
For all the high priest is to make offerings and offerings, so that he may have something to give to him.
And in the morning when the sun is lifted up, you will get up early and put on the town; and when he and the people who are with him come out against you, then you may do to them as you are to be.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the chiefs of the Philistines were there; and there were on the roof about three thousand men and women, who were looking for sport of the king.
And they said to him, The Lord, who has given ear to these things, is a relation between us and a witness, that we may do as we have said.
And he took it to Eglon, king of Moab; and he was a very fat man.
And David and his men came to the town, and saw that it was burned with fire; their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken prisoners.
And David took the head of the Philistines and took it to Jerusalem, and put his arms in his tent.
And on the second day, on the second day of the new moon, David said to his son Jonathan, Why did the son of Jesse come to the feast?
And he said to them, Come after me; for the Lord has given Moab your haters into your hands. So they went down after him, and took the river of Jordan to Moab, and let no man go over.
And he gave back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I have taken the silver of the Lord from my hand, for my son, to make a image and a metal image; and now I will give it back to you.
To whom it was said, In Isaac will your seed be named.
So there is a resting place for the people of God.
Then the father of Saul said, Give me my prayer, what Samuel said to you.
Why did you not give ear to the voice of the Lord? why did you fall on the goods of the Lord, and did evil in the eyes of the Lord?
And when they came in, he saw Eliab and said, Is the Lord's selection before him?
And they said, See, there is a feast of the Lord in Shiloh, in the land which is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the road which goes up from Beth-el to Shechem and on the south.
And there will be a blessing among women, and the wife of Eber the Kenites: she will be honoured over women in the tent.
And Samuel was judged by Samuel all the days of his life.
Even the Zidonians and Amalek and those who have been cruel to you, and you cry to me, and I have kept you safe from their hands.
And questioning the Lord for him, he gave him food and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And it is still clear, if another priest comes to the image of Melchizedek,
So let us, as many as are perfect, let us be in mind; and if you do, God will make it clear to you.
And there were a number of men from the army of the east, a hundred and twenty thousand of all the men of the east, and one hundred and twenty thousand men of war, who took the sword.
And Saul said to his servants, Give me another man who is able to do well, and give him to me.
And Samuel said to all Israel, See, I have given ear to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.
And the children of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and the Lord was with them.
But his wife said to him, If the Lord was pleased to put us to death, he would not have given us a burned offering and a meal offering at our hand, or would he have given us all these things, or at this time, or at this time.
And the priest gave him holy bread, for there was no bread there, but the holy bread, which was taken away before the Lord, to put bread on the day when it was taken away.
So David got up and went over, he and the six hundred men with him, to see the son of Nahash, the king of Gath.
In addition, in addition, I gave offerings and offerings and burned offerings and offerings for sin; and you gave no pleasure in the law, which was given by the law.
Only let your behaviour be true to the good news of Christ, that if I come and see you, or being away, may give ear to you, so that you may be in one spirit, with one mind for the faith of the good news.
And the Lord went on to Meremoth, and she became a child, and she gave birth to three sons and two daughters: and Samuel the child became stronger before the Lord.
And they gave him a cake of figs of figs, and two cakes of raisins, and his spirit came back to him: for he had no bread, and had no water for three days and three nights.
And take over to himself heads of thousands and of fifties, and to put the plough in the plough, and to get grain for the grain, and to make instruments of war and the instruments of his war-carriage.
And Saul's sons were Jonathan and Malchi-shua and Malchi-shua and the names of his two daughters: the name of Michal the first, and the name of the younger woman.
In those days the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, and said to David, Be certain that you are to go out with me to the tent-circle, you and your men.
And I will not take away from before them any of the nations which Joshua went away when he came to death:
Now then, let my lord the king give ear to the words of his servant; if it is so that the Lord has made you take an offering against me, let him take an offering; but if it is the children of men, they are cursed before the Lord: for they have sent me out today that I would not keep the heritage of the Lord, saying, Go to other gods.
He said to Zebah and Zalmunna, What sort of men were they to whom you put to death at Tabor? And they said, As you are, so were they; every one was like the children of a king.
And the son of Jonathan went down, and his father and mother went to Timnah; and they came to the vine-gardens of Timnah, and saw the voice of a lion's young lion.
And his father and his mother said to him, Is there no woman among the daughters of your brothers, and among all my people, that you go to take a wife of the Philistines? And the son said to his father, Take her for me, for she is pleasing to me.
And it came to pass, when he had said the ark of God, that he came down from his place on the side of the doorway, and his neck was broken, and he was dead: for he was an old man and a great man, and he had been judging Israel for forty years.
And David said to him, What have I done? and what have you seen in your servant so long as I have been before you today, so that I may not go and fight against the haters of my lord the king?
And David said to the king, If I have found grace in your eyes, let them give me a place in another town, so that I may be there; why should your servant be living in the king's town?
And he went out into the room and shut the doors of the room on him and shut them.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of Dan, and his name was Adam; and his wife was unable to give birth.
So that you may be glad and be glad with me.
And on the day when the Philistines came to take away the dead, they took Saul and his three sons on Mount Gilboa.
The Lord will be judge, and judge between me and you, and take note of my cause; and I will take my cause from your hand.
And David said, The Lord is living; but only the Lord will put him to death, or his day will come to death, and he will go down and be put to death.
Not according to the agreement which I made to their fathers in the day when I took them out of the land of Egypt: because they did not keep my agreement, and I had no respect for them, says the Lord.
There give you all the saints, and specially those of Caesar's house.
And when the woman came to Saul and saw that he was greatly troubled, he said to him, See, your servant has given ear to your voice, and I put my soul in my hands, and I will keep your words which you have said to me.
And when Saul had news that David had come to Keilah, Saul said, God has given him into my hand, for he is shut in, and he is going into a town that has walls and rods.
Then you will come to the mountain of God, where the army of the Philistines is; and when you come to the town, there will be a company of prophets coming down from the high place, with a corded instrument and a timbrel and a pipe and a harp before them, and they will be able to say.
And when he had put the lights on fire, he let them go to the grain of the Philistines, and burned up the destruction and the grain and the new trees.
And they did not have the priests of Dagon, or any who went into the house of Dagon, and the doorstep of Dagon in Ashdod, to this day.
And she gave birth to a son and gave birth to a son, and named him Samuel; for she said, I made a request from the Lord.
And the men of Israel turned back, and the men of Benjamin were troubled, because they saw that the evil was coming on them.
And Saul was in the thick band of war, and the archers saw him, and he was wounded by the archers.
And Saul said, God does so to me, and you will certainly be put to death.
And after him, Jair came from Gilead, judging Israel for twenty years.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before the Lord in Gilgal, and there they made offerings of peace-offerings before the Lord. And Saul and all the men of Israel were glad.
Because of the honour of Christ greater than the stores of Egypt, for he was looking for the reward.
And the servants of Manasseh said to him, Is not this King David of the land? has they not made sport of one another among him, saying, Saul has put to death his thousands and David, his ten thousands?
And he said, You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest and you are gone; and what have I more? and what is this that you say to me, What is your trouble?
And he said to God, Let not your wrath be burning against me, and I will say this once: let me make a request, but let me make a request, and let it be so with the wool, let it be dry on the wool, and on all the earth let there be dew.
And at the time of Michal, the daughter of Saul, the daughter of Saul, she gave birth to the wife of Bath-lah.
And the people of Gilead said to one another, What man is he who will make war against the children of Ammon? he will be head over all the people of Gilead.
And the sons of Issachar, Deborah, came to the valley at his feet in the valley of Reuben, with a great heart.
So take him in the Lord with all joy, and give honour to those who are honoured.
And I will make him see that I am to judge his family for ever, because of the sin which he had seen; for his sons were cursed, but he did not give them sharp.
Will I take my bread and my water and the flesh of my cattle, which I have put to death for my wool, and give to men whom I do not see where they are?
And he gave him word that Saul had put to death the priests of the Lord.
For it is necessary for ever to undergo glory, and the wife of the wife is free: for God will judge the man who is unclean in the flesh, and the man who is untrue to him.
And I said, The Philistines will come down on me to Gilgal, and I will not make prayer to the Lord; and I will make myself hard for myself and give up the burned offering.
Where are they able to take wives? for we have all given an oath, not to give our daughters to them.
Because of the evil he has done so great, so that you may not be feeble, because you are not tired, because of your minds.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
So Abimelech got up, and all the people who were with him by night; and they were waiting for Shechem, four of them.
And Michal took the images and put it in the bed, and put a haircloth on the head, and covered it with the clothing.
And the Philistines came near, morning and evening, for forty days.
And Saul took him three thousand men of Israel, and two thousand, with Saul in Michmash, and on Mount Beth-el, and a thousand of Jonathan in Benjamin, and the rest of the people, every man to their tents.
And let us come near, so that we may be free to the seat of grace, so that we may have mercy, and have grace, because there is no profit.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they went to the Baals.
And the children of Israel got up in the morning and put up their tents at Gibeah.
And his father went down to the woman, and Jonathan, the son of Barachel, made a feast for the young men.
Even we have the fathers of our flesh which have training for us, and we have given them worship: will we not give much more to the Father of spirits and life?
In those days the Philistines came together with their armies for war, to make war with Israel: and said to David, Be certain for certain that you will go out with me in the army, you and your men.
Then the father of Saul said, Give me my prayer, what Samuel said to you.
Will the men of Keilah give me up into his hands? will Saul come down as your servant has news of? O Lord, the God of Israel, say to your servant, He will come down.
And I will go out and take place by my father in the field where you are, and will say to my father, See what it is, and say to you.
And Saul said to Jonathan, Give me what you have done. And Jonathan said to him, I have had a little honey in the end of the rod which was in my hand; and, See, I am going to death.
So that the word of God and the powers of the world might come.
Now the tribe of Benjamin came near their families, and Saul, the son of Kish, was taken; and Saul was waiting for him, but he was not able to be seen.
Gilead is on the side of the Jordan, and Dan is there; why did he still go in ships? Asher was seated in the direction of the sea, and he was there in his secret place.
In the same way Christ, having been made ready for the sins of many people, will be seen for the second time without sin to those who are waiting for him for salvation.
Who did not come after the law of the flesh, but by the power of an eternal life,
And when Samuel came to Saul, Saul said to him, May you be praised by the Lord: I have kept the word of the Lord.
And they said to the chiefs of Gilead, If you send me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and the Lord gives them over to me, will I be your head?
And one in a certain place gave witness, saying, What is man, that you have no memory of him or a son of man, so that you may see him?
And the people had pity on Benjamin, for the Lord had made a breach among the tribes of Israel.
The children of Naphtali did not put out the people of Beth-shemesh, and the people of Beth-shemesh; and he was living in the land of the Canaanites, and the people of the land; and the people of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-shemesh were put to forced work.
Now David had news in the waste land, which the man of Nabal had gone to shear his sheep.
To make you ready to do his will, taking out in us what is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever. So be it.
And the blade went in after the blade, and the fat was shut up in his stomach, so that the dust came out.
This in your mind which was in Christ Jesus,
For if a man in any time will come back against you and go after you, and make search for your life, the soul of my lord will be kept safe, as in the day of the living, with the Lord your God: but the souls of your haters will be stretched out, as with a cruel man and a sharp band.
And they say to him, Say, I will make sport of you. And he said, It is not right enough for you to say what is right. And they will take him and put him to death at the Jordan, and at that time there will be a fall on the children of Ephraim, forty and two chiefs.
And they saw an Egyptian in the field, and took him to David, and gave him bread, and he gave him food; and they gave him water to drink.
And when the people saw him, they gave praise to their gods: for they said, Our god has given up our haters, and the destruction of our country, who have put us to death in our hands.
And he who was not numbered by the family of them, took the tenth part from Abraham, and gave his blessing to him.
And all that generation came to their fathers, and another generation came after them, who had no knowledge of the Lord or what he had done for Israel.
Then the Lord came up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Does David not put himself in position with us in the strong places of the wood, in the hill-country of Ararat, in the south of the waste land?
So David sent for some men, and saw that Saul had come to her.
And if they say, Come up to us, then we will go up: for the Lord has given them into our hands, and this will be the sign for us.
So it is necessary for us to keep the things which we have in mind, so that we may not let them be moved.
Grace be with you all.
And the Lord said to the king of Israel, By the three hundred men I will give salvation to you, and put the Midianites into your hands; and let all the people go to his place.
And after a while when he came back to take her, he went away to see the dead bodies of the lion: and there was a swarm of bees in the land of the lion and of the honey.
And when he came, he sounded a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, guiding them.
And now, take note of my sin, and be turned back with me, and I will give myself to the Lord.
Then she took the cords and put him in chains, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, and the Philistines are on you, and the rest were in the inner room; and he took them from his arms like a thread.
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Do not let your cry come to the Lord our God, and he will give us salvation from the hand of the Philistines.
And he took the responsible men of the town, and thorns of the waste land and thorns; and with them he gave teaching to the men of Succoth.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel made request to the Lord, saying, Who will go up first for us against the Canaanites?
Now David had news in the waste land, which the man of Nabal had gone to shear his sheep.
And the servants of Saul said to him, See, the spirit of God is troubling you.
And he went from a year to Beth-el, to Beth-el, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah; and he took Israel in all those places.
Only fear the Lord, and keep him in the faith with all your heart: for he has done great things for you.
Is not this David of whom they said one to another, saying, Saul overcame his thousands, and David, his ten thousands?
And David said, See, O king, see that one of the young men may come and get it.
And when their hearts were full of joy, they said, Send for Jonathan, and let us make sport of us. And they sent for Jonathan, the son of Saul, who was in prison, and he made sport of them, and they put him between the pillars.
And now, O Lord, the God of Israel, has put out the Amorite out of the hands of his people Israel, and you will take possession of it.
For they are all looking for themselves, not the things of Jesus Christ.
So that it might be clear to all the king's house, and to all the rest, that my chains are in Christ.
But when the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, the Lord made a saviour for them, and said, Ehud, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a saviour, and the children of Israel sent taxes by him to Eglon, the king of Moab.
And a man from there said, Who is their father? And it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And when Israel was strong, he put the Canaanites to forced taxes, and did not send them out completely.
And they sent representatives to the people of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have taken back the ark of the Lord, and come down and take it to yourselves.
But I am conscious of all things which have been given to me because of Christ.
These are the nations which the Lord went out to give orders to Israel, and to all who had no knowledge of the war of the Canaanites:
And the Lord said to him, Go in your strength, and you will keep Israel from the hands of Midian. Did I not send you?
And so that there may be a man who is unclean or unclean, as Esau, who for one bit of food sold his birthright.
And Saul said to Samuel, Yes, I have given ear to the voice of the Lord, and have gone by the way which the Lord sent me; and I have taken away the king of Amalek with the sword and with the Amalekites.
And the Lord was seen in Shiloh, for the Lord had given himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of the Lord.
And after whom will you go after me? and after a dead dog, after which there is a dog?
And the Lord overcame Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel were cut off from the tribe of Benjamin that day twenty-five thousand men: all these were taken by the sword.
Have mercy on your servant, for you have taken your servant into a agreement with you; but if there is any wrong in me, put me to death; why do you take me to your father?
And Jonathan gave his arms to his servant, and said to him, Go and take them to the town.
And David said to Abiathar, I was certain that day, when the Edomites were there, he said to Saul, I am responsible for your father's house.
And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? And they said, To take up our son Jonathan, to do to him as he has done to us.
See, all of you, O Israel, make your decision and your decisions.
And the king said, You will certainly be put to death, you and three of your father's house.
Do not do anything in your hearts in your hearts, or in their pride, but in your pride you are looking for one another better than yourselves;
And now, I have news that you are cutting off wool: now the keepers of the flock you have been with us, we have not put them to shame or have anything to see them, all the days of their being in Carmel.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of those who were cruel to them; and he gave them into the hands of their haters round about, so that they might not be able to be able before their haters.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they gave worship to the Baals.
And the children of Dan put up the images, and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses; he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan till the day of the fate of the land.
And the first of the men who had been put to death was the first of twenty men, of twenty men, in the part of the land, which is a yoke of oxen in a day.
And Saul said to his father's brother, He gave orders to us that the asses were found, but of the kingdom of which Samuel had said to him, he said nothing.
You have no pleasure in the burned offerings and offerings of sin.
Give praise to women more than women: let the Kenites, the Kenites, be praised in the tent of meeting.
And he said to her, If they keep me with seven green things which have not been made dry, I am feeble and have been like one of the seed.
And those who were put to death in the same place were eighteen thousand, all of the best men.
See, if it goes up by the way of his land to Beth-shemesh, he has done this great evil; but if not, then we will see that it is not his hand which has put us to death; it was a chance for us.
And the men of the town said to him on the seventh day, What is better than honey is better than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said to them, If you had not been ploughing with my cow, you had not seen my knowledge.
And when she came in, she sent him out of her father the field, and she got up from the ass, and Caleb said to her, What is it to you?
For this cause, because the children are part of blood and flesh, he is in the same way that he might put destruction on him who has the power of death, which is, the Evil One.
And the Philistines had news of the noise, and said, What is the voice of this great cry in the tents of the Hebrews? And they saw that the ark of the Lord had come into the tent-circle.
And he said, Let your words come to pass: what is the custom of the boy and his work?
And the towns which the Philistines took from Israel are given up to Israel, from Ekron to Gath; and Israel gave them salvation from the Philistines; and there is peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And the hand of Midian overcame Israel; and the children of Israel made for themselves the holes in the mountains, and the holes and the strong places.
And David said to the melech, Have you come here with a spear or a sword? for I did not send my sword or my goods with me, for the king's business was quickly ready.
And they said, These are all the tribes of Israel who came not up to the Lord at Mizpah; and the people of Jabesh-gilead were not seen in the army.
And Saul gave ear to the voice of Jonathan, saying, As the Lord is living, he will not be put to death.
And there was a man of Ramah in the hill-country of Ephraim, and Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,
Do not let your words be stiff, and let not pride come out of your mouth: for the Lord is the God of knowledge, and by his works are the weight of him.
The work of the holy place and the upright House which the Lord has put up, not man.
And Samuel the child took care of the Lord before his face; and the word of the Lord was hard in those days, and a vision was not frequently.
For this reason the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord: for the offering of the Lord was disgusting to men.
So that, my brothers, my love and my desire for, let my joy and my crown be in the Lord's faith.
And Israel was waiting at Gibeah round about.
You will roll them up like a robe, and they will be changed; but you are the same: your years will not be wasted.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a attack on the south and in Ziklag and put a sword on them and burned it with fire;
And he said, This will be the way of the king who will rule over you: he will take your sons and send them for himself, on his carriage and his horsemen, and they will go running before his war-carriages.
I am able to do all things through Christ, who gives me strength.
And the rod of his spear was like a weaver's rod, and his spear was about six hundred shekels of iron: and one who was taking a breastplate went before him.
And Jonathan took off the robe which was on him, and gave it to David, with his robe and his sword and his bow and his band.
And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart be feeble because of him, for he will go and fight against the Philistines.
And he put faith in David, saying, He has made himself unclean among his people in Israel, and has been my servant for ever.
And David said to him, What have I done? and what have you seen in your servant so long as I have been with you today, so that I may not go with the haters of my lord the king?
And the men of the tribe of Judah said to them, Why have you come up against us? They said, We have come to be put to shame, and to give to him what he has done against us.
And they said to them, I and my people were in great trouble with the children of Ammon; and when I sent you, you did not keep me safe from their hands.
And Samuel was dead, and all Israel were weeping for him, and they put him in their place in Ramah, in his town; and Saul turned away from those who had knowledge of spirits and the readers of spirits from the land.
And David came to Saul and took his place before him; and he was dear love for him, and he became his head.
And Caleb said, He who attacks Kiriath-sepher and takes it, I will give my daughter Achsah as wife.
Finally, brothers and sisters, whatever are the things which are true, what is right, what is right, what is pleasing, what is pleasing, what is pleasing, if there is any man's approval, if it is to be praised, take note of these things.
And it is said, Today, if you give ear to his voice, do not make your hearts hard as before.
Who was true to him who gave him orders, as Moses was in all his house.
And Jesse's name was Abinadab, and he made him go before Samuel; and he said, The Lord has not given this man.
And the gold trees of the land, in addition to the number of all the towns of the Philistines, all of them, walled towns and unwalled towns, even to the great stone which they put down the ark of the Lord; and that stone is to this day in the field of Joshua, of Beth-shemesh.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel said to the Lord, Who will go up for us against the Canaanites first to fight against them?
And he said, See, I have come to do your pleasure. And he took away the first in order to make the second,
But now, my lord, the life of the Lord, and your soul is living, in that the Lord has kept you from coming in with blood, and to give your hand to you; now let your haters be as the sinner, even those who are evil to my lord.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, Send him up to me in the bed, so that I may put him to death.
And the sons of Benjamin came out to see the people, and they had been taken away out of the town, and they came to the destruction of the people, in the road which goes up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of the thirty men of Israel.
And God said to Samuel, Go to bed; and it will be, if he says to you, Say, Let the Lord give it to you; for your servant is hearing. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And they said to him, No, we will only give you a sign and give you into their hands; we will not put you to death. So they put him in two bands, and they took him up from the rock.
Be full of joy in the Lord, and I will say, I will be glad.
And he put destruction on them from Aroer, till they came to Aroer, twenty towns, and the fields of the vine-gardens, with a very great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were overcome before the children of Israel.
And you are to make no agreement with the people of this land: you will be broken down their altars. But you have not given ear to my voice: why have you done this?
And Jacob was put to death by faith, and every one of the sons of Joseph gave blessing to him, falling down on the top of his rod.
And now, as you have been living in my eyes by this day, so let my life be made by the Lord, and let him give me salvation from all trouble.
For to us it has been given to us as to them. But the word of hearing was not good for them, not only mixed with faith of them.
Now Saul, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of God, fighting with the Philistines.
And the Lord sent you on a journey and said, Go and put destruction on the sinners of the Amalekites and make war against them till they are wasted.
And there was a certain woman cutting a stone from over high, and put it on the head of Abimelech, and broken his head.
And the name of the man of Nabal was the name of Abigail, whose wife was Abigail, and the woman of good sense, and the man of virtue, and the man of deceit; and he was a taker of deceit.
And when he went down to Timnah, he saw a woman in Timnah from the daughters of the Philistines.
And David said to Abimelech, the priest, The king has given me a request, and has said to me, Let no man see the business on which I send you, and what I have given you orders; and I have given orders to the young men and to such a place.
And Samuel said, What is the noise of this flock in my hearing and the sound of the cattle which I am hearing?
And they got up early the morning, building an altar, and made offerings of peace-offerings and peace-offerings.
Up, and let us go up to them, for we have seen the land which is very rich and fertile: do not give up: let us go and take care of it, and there will be no trouble.
Now then, let my lord the king give ear to the words of his servant: If the Lord has made you come against me, let him take delight in an offering; but if man, let them be cursed before the Lord, because they have sent me away today from the heritage of the Lord, saying, Go to other gods.
And when he saw that he was the angel of the Lord, he said, Alas, O Lord God! for I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face.
And Michal made David go down through the window; and when he went on, he went in flight and went in flight.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? and to whom will he go up from us?
And the chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, gave themselves up in the meeting of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, who took the sword.
And when he had put an end to these words, he put his face out of his hands, and named the name of the place Ramah, which is the name of the smooth bone.
For he was looking for the town of the building, and the builder and the maker of God.
And the Philistines were waiting on a mountain on one side, and Israel was there on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And the children of Israel, crying to the Lord, said, We have done wrong against you, because we have turned away from our God, and have given worship to the Baals.
Is not this David of whom they said one to another in the dance, Saul has put his thousands to death, and David his ten thousands?
The words of the old have come from the evil, but my hand will not be on you.
If you have done good faith and shame for Baal and for his house this day, be glad in Abimelech, and let him be glad in you.
And the eighth day of the children of Israel, from the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, a man of the Hebrews;
And she, falling down at his feet, said, Let me, my lord, be the cause of sin; let your servant give ear to your servant, and give ear to the words of your servant.
And we will take ten men of a hundred, in all the tribes of Israel, a hundred thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to get food for the people, so that they may come to Gibeah of Benjamin, because of all the foolish things which they have done in Israel.
And they went up and put up their tents in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah. So they named that place Dan, to this day. See, it is still in Kiriath-jearim.
I will go out and take place at my father's side in the field where you are; and I will give you a word to my father, and if I have anything I will give to you.
By faith he kept the Passover and the blood of blood, so that he might send destruction on them.
So now, give us the men of the evil men who are in Gibeah, so that we may put them to death and put away evil from Israel: but the children of Benjamin would not give ear to the voice of their brothers, the children of Israel.
And when the angel of the Lord had said these words to all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and were crying.
And the servant said to Saul again, See, there is in my hand the fourth part of a hundred silver, let us give it to the man of God, that he may let us give us our way.
And when the child was gone, David got up from his place facing the south, falling on his face to the earth, worshipping three times, and kissing one another, weeping together, but David more.
And the Philistines were waiting on the mountain on this side, and the children of Israel were on the mountain on that side, and the valley between them.
For the House was lifted up, and the first place, with the table and the table, and the holy bread, which is given holy;
And a certain woman put a meal on the head of Abimelech, and all of it was broken.
And Saul became angry with Jonathan, and he said to him, Son of man, do not I see that you have taken the son of Jesse to your shame, and to the shame of your mother's shame?
And after this they made request to the Lord, if he came there. And the Lord said, See, he is in secret.
And as for me, and I said, See, the Lord is between you and me for ever.
And the violent men of war went to war against Abimelech, their brother, and put their blood on Abimelech their brother, and on the men of Shechem, who made his hands put to death his brothers.
So the Lord went out from among those nations, and did not send them out quickly; he did not let them go into the hands of Joshua.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he said, Because this nation has broken my agreement which I gave to their fathers and had not given ear to my voice,
For he has said, He has made the first old, and the end of the old and the old.
So I was angry with that generation, and said, They are ever in their hearts, but they have no knowledge of my ways.
And the angel of the Lord came and took his seat under the great tree in Ophrah, which was under the scale of the house of the Rechabites: and his son put out the grain in the wine, and put it in cover from the Midianites.
And David was stronger than the Philistines with a stone and a stone, and overcame the Philistines and put him to death, and there was no sword in David's hands.
Did I come before the Lord to inquire of him? Far be this from me: let not the king take note of such a thing against his servant or in all my father's house: for your servant had knowledge of this thing, small or great.
Have I ever begun to get directions from God? be it far from me: let not the king take care of his servant or to all the house of my father: for your servant has no knowledge of all this, less or less.
And the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand war-carriages, and six thousand horsemen, as the sand on the sea; and they came up and put up their tents at Michmash, east of Beth-aven.
And Jabez went out to the town of Sisera, and said to him, Come, my lord, be turned to me; fear not; and when he came into the tent, she put a robe on him.
And it will be that in the morning when the sun is lifted up, you will get up early and go quickly on the town: see, he and his people who are with him come out against you, so that you may do to them as you are to do.
And her husband went after her, desiring to make peace with her, and to give her back with him, with a servant and two asses; and she took him and took him into her father's house. And when his father had given ear to this, and had seen him, he came to him with joy.
And the woman had a fat ox in the house, and she quickly put it to death, and took some meal, and made cakes of meal, and made cakes of unleavened bread.
Now I have news that you are cutting off wool; your keepers have been with us, and we have done them no damage, and there is no loss to them; all the time when they were in Carmel.
So the spirit of the Lord came on slowly, and went round Gilead and Manasseh and Mizpah, as far as the children of Ammon.
Let us go out to him outside the tent-circle, for his shame.
And Samuel said to all Israel, See, I have given ear to your voice, to all that you said to me, and I will be king over you.
And David went after him, and he and four hundred men went after him, for two hundred men were waiting for the river.
And the servants of old said to him, Is not this David, the king of the land? Is it not for this one to make sport of it, saying, Saul put to death his thousands, but David, his ten thousands?
And after him was Shelomoth, the son of Shimei; and he overcame the Philistines, six hundred men, with the oxen and the children of Israel.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and he was judged by Israel; and he went out to war, and the Lord gave Tiglath-pileser the king of Aram into his hand, and his hand overcame the Ethiopians.
And Jesse said to his son David, Take for your brothers an ephah of barley, and these ten cakes, and go to the tent-circle to your brothers.
And the Philistines said, Who has done this? And it was said, The son of Shimea, the son of Timnah, who took away his wife and gave her to another, has done these things. And the Philistines went up and burned the woman and her father.
And Saul sent for the people and put them in flight, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And to those who were in Beth-el, and to Ramoth in the south, and to those in Jether,
And there was in the middle of the town a high tower, to which the men and the women had gone away together, and all the rulers of the town; and they shut up the door and shut up the door on the branches of the tower for themselves.
And when the people saw him, they gave praise to their gods: for they said, Our god has given us into our hands, and the destruction of our land, and he who has put us to death.
And they were very good to us, and gave us no trouble; and all the time when we were in the waste land were not wasted.
And every one who was in trouble, and every man who was in debt, and every man who had no peace, came to him, and he became captain over them, and there were with him four hundred men.
Now if there were an division in the order of the Levites, for the people had been given the law, what need is there for another priest to get up after the order of Melchizedek, and not be named after Aaron?
And Saul said to Saul, See, David is in Ramah in the town of Ramah.
Then I said, See, I come, in the book it is written of me, to do it, O God.
And David said to Abimelech, Is there not under your hand a spear or a sword in your hand? for I have not taken my sword or my vessels in my hands, for the thing of the king was hard.
And the front of him was on the north side of Michmash, and the south on the south.
And they put their army in position against Israel; and when they had gone together, Israel turned their backs to the Philistines, and there was put to death there in the country four thousand men.
And Gad, the prophet, said to David, You have no rest in a walled place; go and go into the land of Judah. And David went and went into the woods.
And the children of Israel took away the images of Baal and Ashtaroth and the Lord only.
And as he was talking with them, there was a great man named Gath, whose name was Goliath, the name of the Philistines, out of the band of the Philistines; and David had news of them.
And the Lord came and took his place, and gave his name to Samuel, Samuel, and Samuel, saying, Give ear to your servant's ears.
And there was a certain man of Saul's servants, who was there in the Lord's sight, and his name was named Edom, the best of the herdmen of Saul.
And after that, he had a wife in the valley of birth, whose name was named by name.
And on the second day an evil spirit from God came to Saul, and he was talking in the middle of the house: and David was with his hand, as he did day by day, and Saul had his spear in his hand.
And when these signs will come to you, you will do as you have done: for God is with you.
And she gave birth to her heart, and her lips came to her mouth, and her voice was not hearing, and she gave birth to her to get drunk.
And Saul went up from before the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
And there was a man from there, and said, Whose father? So it was for a story, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the priest said to them, Go in peace: before the Lord is your way on which you go.
And he said to David, You are more upright than I: for you have done good to me, for I have done evil to you.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and took them into the room, and put them in the best place among those who had been invited, who were about thirty persons.
Gilead is on the other side of Jordan, and the land of Dan is in ships: Asher was seated in the direction of the sea, and was living by his secret.
And he made a request for water, and gave him milk; and she put out milk in the field.
And she took it before Saul and his servants, and they took food; and they got up and went away that night.
Am I no longer foolish men, so that you have sent this man to me to make sport of him? will this man come into my house?
And the lords of the Philistines came together to make a great offering to Dagon their god, and to be glad, for they said, Our god has given up our haters over our haters.
( Of whom the world was not good), wandering in the earth and in the mountains and in holes and in the holes of the earth.
And she put his sleep on her knees, crying for a man, and put the seven hair on his head and blows on him, and his power turned away from him.
And Esther put his left hand on his right side, and put it into his stomach.
Will the men of Keilah give me up into his hands? will Saul come down as your servant has news of? O Lord, the God of Israel, let me say to you, Give me your servant. And the Lord said, He will come down.
If a man sins against a man, then God will make a request for him: but if a man sins against the Lord, who is able to make a request for him? But they did not give ear to their father, for the purpose of the Lord was to put them to death.
And he put it in the fire, in the pot, in the pot, in the pot, in the pot, and in the vessel; and the priest took all that was taken up for himself: and they did in Shiloh to all the children of Israel who came there.
For if a man sees his hater, will he let him go well? why is the reward of the Lord for you that you have done to me this day?
And the king sent for Abimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests at Nob; and they came all of them to the king.
And he said to her, If they are to put me in prison with a new cords, with which no work has been done, let me be feeble and be like another man.
And when he had gone away, he went out quickly; and he went by the image of stone and went to the hole of the town.
And all the towns of the Philistines, and the number of all the towns of the Philistines, were for the five chiefs, from the walled town even to the towns, even to the great land where they put up the ark of the Lord, in the field of Joshua the Gittite.
We have an altar from which those who work in the House do not have the right to take food.
Then all the children of Israel and all the people went up and came to the house of God, weeping and seated there before the Lord, and went without food till evening and offering burned offerings and peace-offerings before the Lord.
And when the morning came, Jonathan went into the field with David and a child with him.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and in those days the tribe of Dan gave them an heritage to be living in: for to that day all their heritage had not come to them among the tribes of Israel.
But if they say, Come up to us; then we will go up: for the Lord has given them into our hands, and this will be a sign to us.
Go and cry to the gods which you have taken; let them give you salvation in the time of your trouble.
And he said to him, Ah Lord, how am I to give salvation to Israel? See, my thousand are the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to fight against Judah and Benjamin and Ephraim; and Israel was very sad.
And if to life in the flesh to give me a fruit, what will I get? I do not have knowledge.
And when the Philistines had news, they said, What is the voice of this great cry in the tents of the Hebrews? And they saw that the ark of the Lord had come into the tent-circle.
And when they saw him, they took thirty men with him.
And while she was dead, the women who were waiting by her said, Have no fear; for you have given birth to a son. But she gave no answer, and she did not take it to heart.
And she made him sleep on her knees, and she gave for a man, and she made him to be cut off from the seven hair of his head; and she became cruel to him, and his strength went from him.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, and every one of them had his heritage, cutting off his axe, and his axe was made sharp.
And he made an oath through him who said to him, The Lord has made an oath, and will not change his mind, but you are a priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And the Hebrew men who were with the Philistines before that time, who went up with them into the tents from the country round about, they went back to the children of Israel with Saul and Jonathan.
But we see him who has been made a little lower than the angels, because of the glory of death and glory, so that by the grace of God he would give death to all men.
And when he came to his house, he took a sword and took the dead body of his wife with her bones, and sent the parts into all the land of Israel.
So let us, as many as are perfect, let us be in mind; and if in any thing you do not give thought, God will make clear to you.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw; and the people were turned away, and it went on and was crushed.
And he said to them, Come after me; for the Lord has given the Moabites the Moabites into your hands. And they went down after him, and took the Jordan on Moab, and let no one go over.
And when Saul saw the band of the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was troubled greatly.
And he said, Do all that is in your heart, for I am with you all the way.
And they said to him, We have come down to put you under the hands of the Philistines. And the son of David said to them, Give me word, that you may not come on me.
Do not be taken away by different and strange teaching; for it is good that the heart is made by grace, not by food, by which those who were in need were not good.
And make prayer for us, that we are hoping that we have a good heart in our hearts, in all things which are good.
For he has made an end of all the holy things which are holy.
And laughing sent to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have you to do with me, that you have come to me to fight against my land?
And when the son of Joash came to attack Baal, he took place in his house.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she gave a loud voice, and the woman said to Saul, Why have you tricked me? You are Saul.
And David got up early in the morning, and went out from the flock with a watchman, and took and went, as Jesse had given orders to him; and he came to the place of the war-carriages, as the army had gone out for the fight.
And after the war-carriages, and after the army, and after the army, all the people of Sisera came down by the sword; not one was left.
And because I am conscious of this, I am certain that I will be kept with all of you for your joy and joy in the faith,
All of you have made a design against me, and there is no one to say to me, Even when my son has gone into a agreement with the earth of Jesse: there is no one of you who has pity on my cause or given me any knowledge: because my son has made my servant come up against me, and has made evil designs against me to this day.
And they came to the king of Elam, and they overcame him; and they overcame the Canaanite and the Perizzite.
The valley of tents will be cut down with their bodies, the stream of the valley, the stream of the valley; my soul will be on the strong ones.
He will keep the feet of his holy ones, but the evil-doer will be put to shame in the dark, and no man will be overcome by strength.
And he made the House of the House with blood and all the vessels of the work.
Now, O king, come down, and let all the desire of your soul come down, and let our part be handed over to the king's hand.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents; they came in like the locusts, they and their camels without number; and they came into the land to put an end to it.
And he, because of the sin of the sin-offering, was seated on the right hand of God.
And six hundred men, armed with war, came to the door of the doorway.
And when they were near the land of Jebus, the day was far away; and the servant said to his master, Come, let us go to the town of the Jebusite, and let us take the night.
Even as for me, be it from me that I may give sin to the Lord in prayer to prayer for you: but I will give you teaching in the good and the right way.
By faith he went out from the land of Egypt, and did not have fear of the king's wrath, because he had done as if he had seen the Evil One.
The children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of Midian seven years.
Having the same argument which you saw in me, and now you have ears to be in me.
And Gad the prophet said to David, Do not be safe in the strong place; go and get you into the land of Judah. Then David went out and came into the woods of Edom.
And they sent for the children of Zebulun and Naphtali, and they went up behind him, ten thousand men; and she went up with them.
And the children of Israel were living among the Canaanites, and the Hittite and the Amorite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite.
And he said, What is the thing which he has said to you? Do not keep it secret from me: for God does so to you, and more, if you keep secret from me everything he has said to you.
And they overcame the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people were very feeble.
For he was still in the body of his father, when he saw him.
And Saul said to David, You are not able to go against the Philistines to fight with him; for you are only a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
And it was so; he got up early in the morning and took the wool from the wool, and made the drops of dew from the water, and a vessel full of water.
And he changed his way before them, and tricked himself with deceit in their hands, and had gone into the doors of the door, and let his face come down on his face.
And the Lord said to Samuel,
And say to God, Let not your wrath be burning against me, and I will say this once: let me make it clear, but let it be clear to the wool of wool, and let it be wet with dew on all the earth.
Who has no need of the first priests, to make offerings for his sins, and for the sins of the people, because he has done this once for ever.
For if the word which was given by angels was binding, and all the wrongdoing, and the wrongdoing of the evil-doer was given punishment,
For in that he was put to the test, he is able to help those who are put to the test.
And when the people saw the army, he said to the people, See, they come down from the top of the mountains. And Kain said to him, The mountains are looking like men to you.
And they said to him, See, you are old, and your sons are not in your ways: then make a king for us to judge us, like all the nations.
And I pray that your love may be increased more and more in knowledge and knowledge;
And the king said to the priests, Come round and come against the priests; and let the Edomites come round and come against the priests, and let eighty men come to death on that day.
And the armed men came quickly and came against the town of Gibeah, and the town was put to the sword.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to their voice, make them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his town.
And he overcame them with a great force and went down, living in the rock of Etam.
So let all your haters be cut off, O Lord, and let those who love him be as the sun when he goes out in his strength: and the land had rest for forty years.
And Saul went to the house of Gibeah, and the army went with him, whose hearts were fixed on him.
Having faith in this very thing, to keep it safe till the day of Jesus Christ:
And Abishai said to David, God has shut up this day against you today; and now, let me put a spear on him, even to the earth, and I will give him directions.
And Michal took an image and put it on the bed, and put a goat's skin with the hair, and covered it with clothing.
To whom did he make an oath that they would not go into his rest, but those who were without faith?
For the House was made ready, and the light and the table and the bread, which is named the holy place.
And they said to him, Keep quiet: put your hand on your mouth, and come with us, and be for us a father and a priest: is it better for a priest to be a priest for a man or a priest for a tribe and a family in Israel?
And when they made a vow to the Lord, saying, If you give the children of Ammon into my hand,
And David said to him, What have I done? and what have you seen in your servant so long as I have been with you to this day, so that I may not go and fight against the haters of my lord the king?
And he got up early in the morning, on the fifth day, and the young woman's father said, Give up your heart. And they were waiting till the day of the day, and they took their food.
Now when he had gone away from Samuel, God gave him another heart, and all these signs came on that day.
And he gave orders for the three hundred men, three hundred men, and put the horns into the hands of all of them, and put out the basins and lights inside the vessels.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil and put oil on him among his brothers; and the spirit of the Lord came on David from that day forward: and Samuel got up and went to Ramah.
And he got up to him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and overcame Israel, and they took the walls of palm-trees.
And when these signs come to you, do for yourself what you have done, for God will be with you.
And on the day of the day, Saul put the people in three bags; and they came into the middle of the tents in the morning, attacking the children of Ammon till the heat of the day: and the rest of the people were wandering, and there was not one of them.
And Enoch was taken up by faith, so that he might not undergo death, and he was not seen, because God took him up: for before his death he had been made clear to God.
And the woman said, Whom am I to give you up? And he said, Take care of me.
And he said to him, The children of Moab were not taken away the land of Moab, and the land of the children of Ammon;
But the angel of the Lord did not come to another man or to his wife; and he was certain that he was the angel of the Lord.
And he said, Where have you made a road to day? And David said, About the south of Judah, and against the father of Jerahmeel, and against the land of the Kenites.
And the wise men went with the responsible men of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them; and they gave birth to all his words before the Lord at Mizpah.
But I say to you, brothers, keep with the word of comfort: for I have been writing to you in some words.
As the Lord lives, who is the saviour of Israel, if Jonathan my son has done, he will certainly be put to death: in this way no one will say to him,
But the Christ, even the Son of his house, whose house is ours, if we keep the faith and the glory of hope to the end.
So Saul came to take care of David to the wall with the spear, but he went out from Saul and put the spear into the wall; and David went in flight that night.
Who will change our evil body, so that it may be made like the glory of his glory, as the working by which he is able to put all things under himself.
And Saul was attempting to put him to death, even to the wall with the spear; but he went away from Saul's face, and he put the spear into the wall; and David went in flight and got away that night.
And the day came when Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who took his hands, Come, and let us go over to the place of the Philistines, which is on the other side of this land; and he has not given orders to his father.
For because of the work of Christ he came near to death, having given birth to the life which he had given to me.
The Lord will send destruction on his haters, and he will send his voice against them in the heavens: the Lord will judge the ends of the earth: he will give strength to his king, and he will give glory to his king.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they gave no memory of the Lord their God, and gave worship to the Baals and the Asherah.
And David said to Saul, Who am I, and what is my life or my father's family in Israel, that I may be a son-in-law to the king?
Because of the work of Christ he came near to death, purposing his life, so that he might have power for your power.
And Jesse gave his name Abinadab, and made him go before Samuel; and he said, The Lord has not taken care of.
And the servants of old say to him, Is not this King David of the land? Is it not this one of this, that they make sport of it, saying, Saul overcame his thousands, and David with his ten thousands?
And when David and his men came to the town, they saw that it was burned with fire; and their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken prisoner.
And Israel was greatly crushed because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel were weeping to the Lord.
And I will not keep away from you any of the nations whom Joshua went away when he was dead.
And Saul gave orders to his servants, saying, Have faith with David secretly, and say, See, the king has delight in you, and all his servants have love for you: now be the king's son in law.
And Hananiah said, My heart is glad in the Lord; my horn is lifted up in the Lord: my mouth is wide over my haters, because I am glad in your salvation.
And the Spirit of the Lord took the rod on it, and the horn was sounding on it, and the name of the Rechabites was named to him.
And they got up and went to Ziph before Saul, and David and his men in the waste land, in the Arabah, at the south of the waste place.
Grace be with you all.
And when the children of Israel were dead, the children of Israel turned again and went after the Baals and made themselves worship their gods.
And Samuel went back with Saul, and Saul gave worship to the Lord.
And he said to her, Stand at the door of the Tent, and if any man comes and asks you, say, Is there any man here? you will say, No. No.
And the Lord will give Israel up with you into the hands of the Philistines; and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me; and the Lord will give the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
And David got up and went over, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
But a certain wonder, looking for punishment, and for burning passion, to take food on those who are against me;
The memory of women is to be praised by women, the story of the wife of Eber, the smell of women in the tent.
And he said, Let me go, for our family has a meal in the town, and my brother he has given me orders to be there; and now, if I have found grace in your eyes, let me go and see my brothers. So he does not come to the king's table.
And he said to them, Let me give you a sense of wisdom: if you are able to make clear to me in the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty linen robes and thirty changes of clothing.
While they were full of joy and drinking their bodies with food and drinking, the men of the town, the evil men of the town, came and came to the old man's house, and came to the door, crying to the master of the house, saying, Take out the man who came into your house, so that we may make sport of him.
This is the blood of the agreement which God gave to you.
Those who are given by the sound of the bowmen in the place of the waters, they will see the upright acts of the Lord, even the upright acts of the Lord, even the upright acts of Israel in Israel: then let the people of the Lord go down to the doors.
And Saul and the children of Israel came together to the valley of meeting, and they put the army in position against the Philistines.
And war went out before the men of Shechem, and made war with Abimelech.
For he had been made free from the power of the world, but now he has been made clear to the end of the world for his sin.
And the sons of Benjamin said, They are put to death before us as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight and take them away from the town to the roads.
For he was looking for the town of the building, and the builder and the maker of God.
And the servants of Saul said all these words in the ears of David; and David said, Is it possible for you to be the king's son in law? but I am a poor man and a small man.
And Saul and the people were cruel to them, and the best of the flocks and herds, and the clothing and the sheep and the sheep and all that was fair, and all that was fair and good for nothing, for nothing and for nothing.
At the end of the years, the daughters of Israel will come together, and make a song of grief to the daughter of laughing in the land of Gilead for four days.
So David kept his servants with these words, and did not let them go up against Saul; but Saul got up from the hole and went on his way.
If not, as the Lord lives, the God of Israel, who has kept me from doing you any wrong; if you had not come quickly to me, there was not a man who had been given up to the woman of the dead by the day of the light.
And Abimelech, the son of Ahimelech, the son of Ahimelech, went to get the ephod in his hand.
And we see that they were not able to go in because of their faith.
For forty years I was angry with this generation, and I said, They are ever in their hearts, and they have no knowledge of my ways.
For this reason, my dear brothers and sisters, and most desired, my joy and my crown; be strong in the Lord, my dear friend.
Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Naham, the son of Michri, the son of Hasshub, the son of a Benjamite, a man of war.
And Saul said to David, Happy be you, my son David: for you will certainly do great things and be overcome. And David went on his way, and Saul went back to his place.
And the heads of all the people, from all the tribes of Israel, gave themselves up in the meeting of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, who took the sword.
The trees said to the fig-tree, Come, and let us rule over us.
And the men of the army said to Jonathan and his arms, Come up to us, and let us see you. And Jonathan said to his friends, Come up after me, for the Lord has given them over to Israel.
And the Philistines sent for the priests and the wonder-workers, saying, What may we do with the ark of the Lord? let us send it to its place.
But the high priest only in the year without blood, which he gives for himself and for the error of the people,
And Abdon, the son of Dodai, the Pirathonite, was put to death in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And the servant said to Saul again, See, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver, so that I may give to the man of God, to make clear to us our way.
Give my love to every holy one in Christ Jesus, and the brothers who are with me.
And Jeremiah, the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of the Lord at Shiloh, took the ephod: and the people did not see where Jonathan was gone.
Now the Hebrew men who were with the Philistines before them, and who went up with them into the tents round about, they went back to the children of Israel with Saul and Jonathan.
And make prayer for us, that we are certain that we have a good heart in our hearts, desiring to have respect in all things.
And in the morning at dawn, get up and come to the town; and when he and the people who are with him come out to you, let him do whatever is right.
So Saul put on his clothing, put on other clothing, and went with two of his men, and they came to the woman by night and said, Make a request for me by a spirit of death, and come up for me to whom I say to you.
So all the tribes of Israel came forward, and the tribe of Benjamin was marked out.
And David said to Jonathan, Who will say to me, May your father answer you roughly?
And the day came, and Elkanah gave food to his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
Think of this in your hearts which was in Christ Jesus,
But six hundred men turned and went in flight to the waste land of Rimmon for four months.
And you are to give ear to what they say, and then your hands will be strong to go down to the tent-circle. Then he went down with his servant to the outside of the armed men who were in the army.
And David said to Saul, Who is I? and what is my life, the family of my father in Israel, that I am a son-in-law to the king?
And Saul was in fear of David, because the Lord was with him and went away from Saul.
And when they were near the house of Micah, they had knowledge of the voice of the young man, the Levite, and they came to him and said to him, Who took you here? and what are you doing in this? and what have you here?
And as for the three hundred men who were with him, at the first watch of the middle of the night, at the first watch of the night, the watchmen were overcome with fear, and the sound of the horn was sounding, and the instruments were shaking with fear.
And Samuel said to the people, It is the Lord who made Moses and Aaron and took our fathers out of the land of Egypt.
Then David said to him, Truly, as the Lord lives, you have been upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the army is good in my eyes: for I have not seen evil in you from the day of your coming to me to this day: but the lords have no respect for you.
And Saul said, This is what God has done, and he will give it more: for you will certainly be put to death, Jonathan.
And David said in his heart, I will certainly be put to death one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I might go in flight into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will have sorrow of me to search for me in all the land of Israel, so that I may be safe from his hand.
So that by two tables there is no use for God to be false, so that we might have a strong comfort, who have gone in flight for the hope which is waiting for us.
And when the children of Israel were put to death, the children of Israel turned back and went after the Baals, and gave them worship for Baal.
And he put blows on the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of the Lord, and overcame seventy men; and the people were weeping, because the Lord had given the people a great slaughter.
And the wagon came into the field of Joshua, a strange man, and there was a great stone there; and they took the wood of the cart, and gave the oxen a burned offering to the Lord.
For this cause I have not been untrue against you, but you have done evil against me by making an evil war against me: the Lord is judge and judge this day between Israel and the children of Ammon.
Jesus Christ is the same, and this day and ever.
And Gilead took the river of the Jordan from Ephraim, and said, Let me go over. And the men of Gilead said to him, Are you the children of Ephraim? And he said, No.
Is not this David, of whom men make sport of one another, saying, Saul has put to death his thousands, and David, his ten thousands?
And they gave orders to the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and put in the vine-gardens.
And the daughter of Phinehas, the wife of Phinehas, was very great and near her time; and hearing the news that the ark of God was taken, and her father and her husband was dead, she got up on her face and went down in pain: for her pain came on her suddenly.
And they came round about the children of Benjamin, driving them in flight, driving them down at the resting-place of Gibeah on the east.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her seven green plants, which had not been dry, and she took him with them.
And David got up and went away from Saul on that day, and went to the king of Gath.
And he went down between her feet, falling down, and went down; and he went down between her feet and went down; and where he went down, there he was dead.
For after whom is the king of Israel come out? and after whom are you going after? after a dead dog after him,
And they went out before the people of Shechem, and made war against Abimelech.
The Lord takes death and gives life; he goes down to the underworld and gives up.
So that you may be without blame and without cause, children of God, in the middle of a twisted and twisted generation, among whom you are seen as lights in the world.
And the children of Dan put up for themselves the pictured image; and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan till the day of the fate of the land.
And Jonathan, answering his father Saul, said, Why will he die? what has he done?
And from year to year he went round to Beth-el, and to Gilgal, and to Gilgal, and to Israel all these things.
For this cause I have sent him in mind, so that when you see him again you may be glad, and I may be less troubled.
If you have been true to you, O Lord, be glad in addition to you, O Lord; be glad in Abimelech, and let him be glad in you.
And all those who saw it said, Nothing like this has ever been since the children of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt till this day: take note of it, and give thought to it.
And you are to say, Peace be to my brothers and to you, and peace to your house and peace to all that you have.
And the woman said to him, See, you have seen that Saul has done that he has taken away the secret spirits and the readers of spirits from the land; and why are you putting a net for my soul to put me to death?
And the children of Asher were living in the land of the Canaanites, and the people of the land, for it had not taken them out.
So his father went down to the woman, and was a feast for the young men.
And the Lord had given ear to the ear of Samuel, before the coming of Saul, saying,
And when they went from there to the town of Gibeah, there came to him a meeting of the prophets; and the spirit of God went on him, and he was talking with them.
And Saul took him away from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came before the people.
And David said to Abimelech, the Hittite, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, Who will go down with me to Saul to the tent-circle? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
For we have had the good news given to us, as those who did, but the word which they had not given to them, because they had not been united with those who had given ear to it in faith.
Now when Samuel was old, he made judges over Israel.
And Samuel said to all the people of Israel, If you go back to the Lord with all your heart, put away the strange gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and make ready your heart to the Lord, and be his servant, and he will give you salvation from the hand of the Philistines.
And I would take this people into my hands; then I would take Abimelech away. And he said to Abimelech, Make your army increase, and come out.
And he had thirty sons, and he sent thirty daughters out of the house, and thirty daughters for his sons, and seven years for Israel's death.
So let us, having a cloud of witness round about us, put away every weight and sin which is ready for us, and be able to keep the race which is before us.
But be strong for yourselves every day, as long as it is given to this day, so that no one may be made free by the deceit of sin.
And after him Jair came from Gilead, judging Israel for twenty-two years.
Do all things without protest and argument.
Let your love be for love.
And I was glad in the Lord, so that you would have again given my care to me, because you were taking care of me and had no chance.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and put it in the house of Dagon, and put it in the house of Dagon.
And they went through the waste land round the land of Edom and Moab, and came to the east side of Moab; and they put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon; and they did not go into the land of Moab, because the Arnon was the limits of Moab.
And he said to him, Let the fat be burned to day, and let the fat be burned to day, and then take as much as your soul desires. But he said, Not so; but you will give it to me, or I will take it by force.
Are you better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab? has he ever been fighting with Israel? or has he made war against them?
For he gives witness to himself: you are a priest for ever, in the order of Melchizedek.
And he said in another place, You are a priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And he said to the children of Israel, The Lord, the God of Israel, says, I took Israel out of the land of Egypt, and I gave you up out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hands of all the kingdoms of your hands.
For we are the circumcision, who by the Spirit are the servants of God, and of pride in Christ Jesus, and in the flesh without faith,
And the Lord said to him, By the three hundred men who are armed I will keep you safe, and let Midian go into your hands; and let all the people go, every man to his place.
And when they had been put to shame, they were put to shame because he did not open the doors of the house: and they took the key of the key, and the door was open, and there their master was sleeping on the earth.
And as they were going down to the end of the town, Samuel said to Saul, Take care of the servant before us, and he went on, and keep you still a while, so that I may make clear to you the word of God.
And David said, What have I done now? is there no cause for a cause?
But when the judge was dead, they were turned back and made more evil than their fathers, and they went after other gods to be their servants, and to give worship to them: they did not give up their evil ways or from their hearts.
And the old man said, Peace be with you; let all your desire come to me; only go not in the street.
For all the orders which had been given by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of the ox and the he-goats, with water and red wool and hyssop, and put them on the book and on all the people;
This mind in you, which was in Christ Jesus,
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man running away from before him, were greatly troubled.
And he gave an oath that he would not go into his rest, but to those who had no faith.
Your servant has sent down the lion and the bear; and he will be like one of them, because he has made sport of the way of the living God.
And the children of Benjamin were rewarded for what they had done; and the curse of Jotham, the son of Manasseh, came on them.
And the mountain went up on the north in Michmash, and the other on the south side of Geba.
And Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most High, who came to Abraham from the death of the kings and gave him his blessing,
And he said, Keep with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten silver shekels of silver and a robe of clothing and your food.
Having the same argument which you have seen in me, and now give ear to me.
And the king's servants went out by the door, and the king's servants went in, and saw the doors of the prison, and they said, It may be that our food is in the summer.
And David made waste all the land, without man or woman; and he took care of the sheep and the oxen and the asses and the camels and the clothing, and came back to them.
Now the children of Benjamin had news that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Say, How was this evil?
And on the next day, Saul put the people in three divisions; and they came into the middle of the tents in the morning, and put the children of Ammon to death till the heat of the day: and the rest were sent in flight, so that there were no two among them.
And the people gave worship to the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the old men whose days were long after Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord which he had done for Israel.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said to the young man, Let me alone, and let me see the pillars on which the house is fixed, and I take care of them.
And all those who saw it said, This has not been done or seen from the day when the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt to this day: see, take note, and say.
So David took the spear and the water from Saul's head, and they took them away; and no man saw it, or had knowledge of it, and no one got up, for they were all sleeping, because a deep sleep from the Lord came on them.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had come on the south, and at Ziklag, and put the sword on them, burning it with fire;
And David put out his hand to the vessel, and took a stone, and put stones on it, and put it on his brow, and the stone was lifted up on his brow, and he was falling on his face to the earth.
And David said to Saul, Your servant took care of his father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear and took a lamb out of the flock.
And David put up these words in his heart, and was troubled in fear of the king of Gath.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will make prayer to the Lord for you.
For it was he who has all things, and by whom are all things, having a great number of children to give glory, to make the captain of his salvation complete through grief.
Say, you who put on white asses, you who are seated in judging and walking by the way.
And when the news came to pass, one went to his neighbour a dream, and he said to his neighbour, I had a dream, and it seemed to me like a boiling cake of barley, and came down into the tents of Midian; and when it came to a tent, it came to the tents and put it on the earth.
And he said, See, I am come to do, O God; he will take away the first which the second man may make.
But now this is what we will do to Gibeah: we will go up against it by measure.
Now as for Zebah and Zalmunna, with their armies, were about fifteen thousand men, all who were left of all the army of the east: there was a hundred and twenty thousand men of war.
And the man of Elkanah went up and all his house, to make offerings to the Lord for the offerings of the days, and for his word.
And every man in his place went round about the tent-circle; and all the people were troubled, crying and crying, they went in flight.
For women were given up again by the dead, and others were troubled, not taking back for the freeing of the price, so that they might get better again.
What is it to do? Let it be so that in every way, whether it is true or in the true faith, let Christ be said: I am glad in this, yes, and will be glad.
Give orders to your rulers, and let them be under them, for they keep watch over your souls as those who are ready to give an account, so that they may do this with joy and not with cries of grief: for this would be false for you.
And it came to pass, when the fire went up from the altar to heaven, that the angel of the Lord went up in the flames of the altar, and his wife and his wife were looking on, and falling on their faces to the earth,
And the Lord said to him, Peace be with you: do not be troubled, for you will not be put to death.
Now the woman had a young ox in the house, and she went quickly and put it to death; and she took some of it and made cakes of unleavened bread.
And David went in flight from the town of Ramah, and said before him, What have I done? what is my sin? and what is my sin before your father, so that he is looking for my life?
Saying, May I give you a blessing, and I will give you a blessing, and I will give you great numbers.
And they are not to give teaching to his neighbour, and to every man his brother, saying, Have knowledge of the Lord: for all things will be clear to me from the least to the greatest of them.
And they took their daughters as wives, and gave their daughters to their sons and served their gods.
Who is true to him who has made him, like Moses in all his house.
And the peace of God, which goes by all wisdom, will keep your hearts and mind through Christ Jesus.
For the first reason of the preaching of Christ is not true, and is not true, purposing in my chains.
And when the rest of the children of Benjamin saw this, they went in flight into the waste land, and made their flight on the rock which was named Rimmon; and as they were feeble and going farther, they put to death five thousand men; and as they went farther, they went after them and put to death two thousand men.
And on the second day of the new moon, David said to his son Jonathan, Why has the son of Jesse come in, yesterday or day?
For the law has been made by the law for the chief priests, but the word of the oath which is made by the law, a son has been made perfect for ever.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and took it to Ashdod.
All these were put to death in faith, not having the word given to him, but having seen them, put his neck on them from far away, and made witness that they were no longer living in the earth.
For the Lord will not send away his people for his great name, because the Lord will make you his people.
And to those in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were there.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, See, the man of whom I said to you, he will have authority over my people.
With the law different and strange things are not taken: for it is good that by grace the heart is fixed, not with food, but in which they were not given profit.
And David put up these words in his heart, and was greatly afraid of the king of Gath.
For he did not keep the world in the time of which we were talking, to the angels.
And the Philistines sent for the priests and those who had knowledge of them, saying, What may we do with the ark of the Lord? Make us see how we may send it to its place.
And the children of Israel gave to Eglon the king of Moab for eighteen years.
You have loved righteousness and hate evil; so God, your God, has given you the oil of joy higher than your friends.
And they said, What one is there among the tribes of Israel who did not come up to the Lord at Mizpah? See, there came no man from Jabesh-gilead to the tent-circle.
For if the blood of oxen and the male goats and the dust of a cow are made unclean, let them make the holy place holy.
And he said to him, Whom have you gone against the day? And David said, About the south of Judah and against the south of Judah, and against the south of Cenchrea.
And they said to him, We have come down to keep you and give you into the hands of the Philistines. And he said to them, Give me your word, that you may not go against me.
And he said to them, I would have a desire for you: give me every man the rings of his goods: for they had gold rings, because they were the Ishmaelites.
The kings came and made war against the kings of Canaan, and the kings of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo; they took no goods of silver.
But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah: we are going by much against it.
Do not take your servant for a crime, for from the wealth of my grief and my wrath have I said this to this time.
If I say to the boy, See, the arrows are on this side, take them up: come to me, for there is peace to you, and there is no evil, as the Lord lives. But if I say to the boy, See, the arrows are far away from you: go in peace, for the Lord has sent you away.
And the men of Israel and Judah got up with a loud cry, and went after the Philistines till you came to the valley, and to the towns of Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines went down by the road to Gath and to Gath and to Ekron.
And the spirit of the Lord came on him, and he was angry with him as he would have broken a young goat, but had nothing in his hand: but he did not give his father or mother what he had done.
And you will take them up like a robe, and they will be changed like a robe; but you will be the same, and your years will not go out.
And they put to death the ox and gave birth to the child.
And David said, O Lord, the God of Israel, your servant has certainly heard that Saul is looking for a purpose to go to Keilah, to put destruction on the town for my name.
For the seventh day he has said, and on the seventh day he has rest from all his works.
And they gave orders to the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and be waiting in the vine-gardens.
And falling on his feet he went down, falling down on his face; and falling on his feet he went down; and where he went down, he came to destruction.
But David went in flight from the land of Ramah, which is in Ramah, and said to Jonathan, What have I done? what is my sin? what is my sin against your father, so that he is looking for my life?
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were put to death, for the men of Israel gave their place to Benjamin, because they had put their faith in the land at Gibeah.
And the Holy Spirit gave witness to us, because he said,
So he went in, cooked a young goat, and made unleavened cakes of the best meal; and putting the flesh in a basket, and the soup of the meat was in a vessel, he took all under the tree and gave it to him.
Then Samuel got up and went up from Gilgal to the town of Benjamin; and Saul numbered the people who were with him, about six hundred men.
And Saul said, Make clear among the people, and say to them, Take me here every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and put them to death, and put them to death, and do not sin against the Lord in taking with the blood. And all the people took his ox with him at night and put them to death there.
For a little while, and he who comes will come, and will not be waiting.
And the grain-ones went in after the blade, and the fat shut up on the blade, for he did not put the sword out of his body, and it came out after him.
And the thorns say to the trees, If you put on me king over you, come, put your hope in my shade; but if not, fire will come out of the thorn-tree, and take away the cedars of Lebanon.
Let our lord give orders, and your servants, who are before you, will make sport of a man playing on the harp, so that when the evil spirit of the Lord is on you, he may be with his hand, and you may get it quickly.
And Saul said, This is what you are to say to David, The king has no desire for a price, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be taken by the king's haters. But Saul thought to make David fall by the Philistines.
And Jonathan went up on his hands, and on his feet, and on his arms, and they came down before Jonathan; and they put them to death after him.
But the chiefs of the Philistines were angry with him; and the chiefs of the Philistines said to him, Let the man go back, and let him go back to his place where you have made him, and let him not go down with us in the fight, or in the fight against us: for with what purpose is this man make an atonement for his lord? will it not be with the heads of these men?
For the Sabbath is rest for the children of God.
And when he was put to rest till the middle of the middle of the night, he got up in the middle of the night and took the doors of the town and the two pillars, and put them on his shoulders, and put them on the top of the mountain which is before Hebron.
And when it was given to Saul, he sent other men, and they became prophets in the same way; and Saul sent representatives again for the third time, and they gave the news.
See, I am a witness against the Lord, and a witness against me before the Lord: whose ox I took, whose ass I took away? Whom have I taken away? To whom have I been put to shame? Of whose hand have I taken away my eyes? I will give it back to you.
And the Philistines were made low, and had no more come into the land of Israel; and the hand of the Lord was on the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And every tongue says that Jesus Christ is the glory of God.
And he said to her, If you will come with me, I will go; if you do not come with me, I will not go.
And Saul said, This is what you are to say to David, The king has no desire for a price, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be given back by the king's haters. Now Saul thought to make David fall by the Philistines.
And he will put over himself captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, and those who are to do the ploughing and the grain, and they will get ready for war and for his war-carriages.
And when he saw that he was the angel of the Lord, he said, Ah, my lord the Lord: for now I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face.
And all the fighting-men got up and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
For in that he has suffered, being tested, he is able to help those who are in need.
And the children of Ammon made war against Israel, and the responsible men of Gilead went to get out of the land of Tob,
And the sons of Benjamin did so, and took them wives after their number, of those who were dancing, and they went back and went back to their heritage and put up the towns and living in them.
I have knowledge of these things to be made low, and I have knowledge to be increased; in everything and in all things I have been made ready, to be full and to be in need and to be in need and to be in need.
Your servant overcame the lion and the bear; he will be like one of them, because he has made sport of the armies of the living God.
And David said to Abimelech the priest, The king has given me orders, and he says to me, Let no man see what I send you, and what I have given you orders; and the young men I have made clear to these and such a place.
As to the rest, waiting till he puts his haters under his feet;
For I have said to him that I will put an end to his house for ever, because of the sin which he has seen; because his sons have put a curse on themselves, and he did not keep them.
And the angel of God said to him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and put them on this rock, and put out the soup of spices. And he did so.
For they say such things that they are looking for a country.
And the men of Shechem were waiting for him on the tops of the mountains; and they took away all the way by them, and said to Abimelech,
And they went down and made war against the Canaanites, who were living in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowlands.
And he will take the tenth of your seed and of your vine-gardens, and give to his servants and his servants.
But you will not take away your mercy from my house for ever: no, not when the Lord has taken away all the haters of David from the face of the earth.
And that all these people may see that the Lord is not the saviour of the sword and the spear: for the Lord is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.
But the God of peace, who took back from among dead our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the flock, in the blood of the blood of eternal testament,
And the children of Ammon were called together, and put up their tents in Gilead; and the children of Israel came together and put up their tents in Mizpah.
Not like the agreement which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by my hand to send them out of the land of Egypt: because they did not keep my agreement with them, and I had no knowledge of them, says the Lord.
And at that time they put to death Moab, about ten thousand men, all sorts of desire, and all the men of war; and no one got away from a man.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to themselves, We have come back to you now, so that you may go with us and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all the people of Gilead.
And Samuel did what the Lord said, and came to Beth-lehem; and the responsible men of the town came to him in fear, saying, Have you come in peace?
And now what is there under your hand? five cakes give into my hand or what is found.
And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, Happy be you of the Lord: I have done the orders of the Lord.
For we, when we are conscious of the knowledge of the true knowledge, will have no more sin for sin.
And I have not done wrong against you, but you are doing with me evil, to make war against me. O Lord, judge today between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
But there is no division for the better, but there is no cause for the better.
And he said, See, I am coming to do your pleasure; he takes away the first to make the second.
And God did so on that night, and there was no heat on the wool, and on all the earth there was dew.
For by one offering he has made complete for ever those who are made holy.
And the men took the goods, and took sheep and oxen and oxen, and put them to death on the earth, and all the people had food for them.
And the men of the town said to him on the seventh day before the sun goes in, What is better than honey, and what is stronger than a lion? And he said to them, If you had not been ploughing with my cow, you had not seen my knowledge.
And he took a yoke of oxen and cut them into bits, and sent them through all the land of Israel, saying, Whoever is not going out after Saul and Samuel, so will it be done to his oxen. Then the fear of the Lord came on the people, and they went out like one man.
And to Sisera and to all his war-carriages, a hundred and fifty war-carriages of iron, and all the people who were with him, from the direction of the nations, at the river Kishon.
But the makers of Sisera went in flight to the tent of Ishvi, the wife of Eber, the Kenites; for there was peace between Jabin, the king of Hazor, and the land of Eber the Kenites.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take food among them till the morning light, and let us not go away from a man. And they said, Do whatever seems good to you. And the priest said, Let us go near here to God.
And the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble, because the people were troubled: and the people kept themselves secretly in the holes and in the thick places and in the rocks and in holes and in holes and in holes.
But after the decision of the judge, they went back and did much worse than their fathers had done, and they went after other gods, worshipping them and worshipping them; and they did not go away from their ways, and the heart which they had made by their ways.
And early in the morning he got up early in the morning, and the father's father said, Let your heart be comforted, for they were waiting till the ninth day; and they took their food.
And all Israel had news that Saul had overcome the Philistine army, and that Israel was hated by the Philistines; and the people went together after Saul to Gilgal.
But one has said, What is man, that you have thought of him? or the son of man, that you care for him?
So he is able to give salvation to those who are near to God through him, seeing that he is ever living for ever.
And we put on the south side of the South, and on Judah, and on the south of Caleb, and we put a fire on him.
I will put the wool of wool on the grain-floor; if there is dew on the wool, and all the earth is dry, I will see that you will give Israel by my hand, as you have said.
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant, and took them into our hands, and gave them a place at the head of those who were invited: for thirty men were there.
And the men of death had not been put to death with the beast, and the cry of the town went up to heaven.
Now the Lord had given birth to Samuel one day before Saul came, saying,
And they gave the name of the place to the Lord, and there they gave offerings to the Lord.
And before they make perfume with the fat, then the priest's servant came in, and said to the man who was offering, Give flesh to the priest, and he may not take of you flesh cooked, but be open.
And it came to pass, that he was put to death in Beth-lehem.
And David said, See, the king's spear, and let one of the young men go over and get it.
And the thing was evil in the eyes of Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel made prayer to the Lord.
But these things have been given to me, because of Christ, loss.
And Saul said to his servants, Take care for me, for I am a man who takes care of me.
And when I saw that you did not keep me safe, I put my life in my hand, and went over against the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into my hands: why then have you come up to me today?
But the hand of the Lord was hard on them of Ashdod, and he sent destruction on them and sent destruction on them, even Ashdod and its limit.
And the woman gave birth to a son, and she gave him the name of the son; and the child became great, and the Lord gave him his blessing.
And after him, Beth-lehem, the son of Beth-lehem, was judged by Israel.
In that day, I will give effect to myself all that I have said about his house, from the first to the end.
And the king said to the armed men who were round him, Come and put to death the priests of the Lord, because they have been helping David, and because they had knowledge that he was running away, and did not make it clear to me. But the servants of the king were not willing to put their hand against the priests of the Lord.
And Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Come with me into my country, so that we may fight against the Canaanite, and I will go with you in the same way. So Simeon went with him.
Now let our lord now say, your servants are before you: they will be looking for a man who is expert in a harp, and it will come to pass when the evil spirit of God is on you, and he will make use of his hands, and you will be well.
And Jonathan said to David, Come and let us go out into the field, and let them go out into the field.
And when the children of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went to his house.
And he saw a certain ass of a ass, stretching out his hand and took it and put a thousand men with it.
Now it was old, old, old, and hearing all that his sons did to all Israel; and how they put the women together at the door of the Tent of meeting.
And the six hundred men took the priest and the things we said before, and came to a certain people who were quiet and quiet, and put them to death with the sword, and the town was burned with fire.
And Samuel said to the cooked cook, Take the land which I gave you, which I said to you, Give it to you.
And he put it on the ephod and put it in his town, in the town of Ophrah; and all Israel went after the use of her body, and it was to take place on it and to his house for a net.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have said again of another day.
And they said, We are certainly to give. And they put out the robe and put it in place for every man's ring.
Be with me, and do not be put to fear: for he who is looking for my life is looking for your life; you are in good care with me.
And when they came back after David had come back from the destruction of the Philistines, the women went out from all the towns of Israel with songs and dancing to see King Saul with timbrels and with corded instruments.
And the Lord said to him, I will give you the three hundred men who take the water, and I will give Midian into your hands, and let the people go, every man to his place.
And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and his selection is witness this day, and you have not seen anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
And he was living in the land, living in the land of a strange land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the sons of Israel,
For I have no fear in the heart of the man who will take care of you.
Even though he was a Son, and had knowledge of the things which he had undergone.
Now when the evil spirit of God was on Saul, David took the harp and took his hand with his hand; and Saul was comforted, and the evil spirit went away from him.
For by it the rulers gave a good news.
And the chiefs of Gilead said to them, We have come to you, so that you may go with us and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all the people of Gilead.
And the woman had a fat ox in the house; and she went quickly and put it to death; and she took some of the best meal and made cakes of unleavened bread.
And he took him to his house and gave food to the asses, and they washed their feet and gave food and drink.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night; and Saul was sleeping in the carriage with his spear on his head, and Abner and the people were round about him.
And he made a vow to the Lord, saying, If you will give the children of Ammon into my hands,
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they gave worship to the Baals.
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the son of Shelah, the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, the priest of the Lord at Shiloh, had the ephod; and the people did not see that Jonathan had gone.
And the young man got up to go with his wife and his servant; and his father's law said to him, See that the day is near, and go to the evening; keep watch with me to day, and spend the day in pleasure, and tomorrow you may go to your house.
And they got up early, and when it was early in the morning, Samuel sent to Saul on the roof, saying, Get up, and I will send you away. So Saul got up and the two of them went outside.
And David got up and went over, and he and six hundred men who were with him, to see the son of Nahash, king of Gath;
And Abdon, the son of Dodai the Pirathonite, was put to death in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And they said, What is the sin offering which we may come back to him? And they said, Five gold goes out, and five gold trees, like the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one disease was on you all, and on your heads.
My heart is to the chiefs of Israel, who gave themselves to the people. Give praise to the Lord.
So I made an oath in my wrath, if they come into my rest.
For he was ill with death, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him only, but on me, so that I might have sorrow on sorrow.
And Samuel said, Though you are small in your eyes, are you not the head of the tribes of Israel? the Lord has made you king over Israel.
For you have need of hard endurance, so that, after you have done the will of God, you may have the word.
For this day the Lord will give you into my hands, and I will send punishment on you and take your head away from you, and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens and the beasts of the earth: and all the earth will see that Israel has a God.
So let us, even, see that we are round about with a cloud of witnesses, putting away every weight, and the sin which is over-hard for us, and let us be able to get the race which is before us.
And all these, having faith in faith through faith, did not have the word of God.
No, my sons, for it is no good thing to me: you make the people of the Lord sin.
Keep on my prayer all day long, making prayer for you all with joy.
And Saul sent for all the people together for war, to go down to Keilah, to make war on David and his men.
And when the blade goes in after the blade, and the fat shut on the blade, he has not put the sword out of his stomach, and it goes out into the hole.
And all Israel was very sad, and gave thought to the destruction of one tribe out of Israel.
And I pray that your love and your love may be increased in full knowledge and full of knowledge;
For everyone who gives milk is not wise in the word of righteousness, because he is a child.
And Christ has come, the chief priest of the coming of the good things, through the great and complete House which is not made with hands, not of this work.
And the men did so; and they took two milk cows and put them on the wagon, and shut up their oxen at the house.
And a man of Benjamin went out from the army, and came to the same day at Shiloh, with his robe torn and with earth on his head.
And laughing went away from his brothers, and took their living-place in the land of Samaria; and there were foolish men in laughing, and they went out with him.
And I am certain that I am certain that I will be living with you for your salvation and joy of faith.
And Saul said to his father's brother, He made clear to us that the asses were found. But the words of the kingdom of Samuel had not given him word.
Go and cry to the gods which you have taken; let them be your saviour in the time of your trouble.
And they took away the women who were in it; they took no one to death, and they go on their way.
Not to your own eyes, but to one another.
And the people sent twelve thousand men from the army, and they gave orders to them, saying, Go and attack the people of Jabesh-gilead with the sword, and the women and children.
And Jonathan said to the young man who took his war-arms, Come, let us go over to the tents of these men, and let it be that the Lord will do it for us: for there is no division to the Lord for a long time or a small number.
And the men of Israel were troubled that day, for Saul had given orders to the people, saying, Cursed be the man who has no food till evening, so that I may be given punishment on my haters. So no one of the people has tasted any food.
And being seen in form like a man, he made himself low and gave himself to death, even the death of the cross.
So do not give up your faith, for it is a great reward.
It is a great fear to fall into the hands of the living God.
I make a request to those who are to be sent by the authority of the Lord, to make the same way the same way in the Lord.
And now, my father, see, and see the robe of your robe in my hand; for I have cut off the robe of your robe, and have not put you to death: see that there is no evil or evil in my hand, and I have not sinned against you, though you go to test my life.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah on the second day, and put on to the land of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men: all these were taken by the sword.
And all the men of Israel went up out of their place, and put themselves in their place at Baal Tamar; and the people of Israel went out of their place, from Geba.
And they went up into the town; and as they went into the town, Samuel came out to them to go up to the high place.
And when she was seated on the ass, she came down by the hole on the mountain, and saw David and his men came down against her, and she came to them.
And he said to her, Stand at the door of the Tent; and if any man comes and says to you, Is there anyone here? You are to say, No. No.
All these have been put to death in faith, without hearing the word, but seeing them from far away and hearing them, saying that they were wanderers and wandering in the earth.
But one of the young men gave birth to Abigail, the wife of Nabal the wife of Nabal, saying, See, David sent men from the waste country to our master, and he made sport of them.
And he had forty sons and thirty sons, seated on seventy years, judging Israel for eight years.
And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites who were living in Gezer; but the Canaanites were living in Gezer with them.
So that, brothers and sisters, had courage to go into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
And David said to Jonathan, Who will say to me, or what is your father's answer?
But God had broken the hollow place of his body, and water came out of it: and when he was overcome, his spirit came back to life: and his name was named Helkath, which is in a meeting-place, to this day.
But on the fourth day early, when he got up early in the morning, his father kept him in the law, and said to him, Go first for a little bread and make your stomach strong, and so go.
And his wife, which he had in Shechem, gave birth to a son named Abimelech.
And the woman gave birth to a son, and gave him the name of the child, and the child became a blessing, and the Lord gave him his blessing.
And Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for David; and they gave news to Saul and the thing pleased him.
Go now, I pray you, and see, and see, and see where his place is, and see where his house is, and who has seen him there: for it is clear to me that he is in doubt.
And he took it into his hands, and went on his way, and took food as he went; and he came to his father and mother and gave them food; but he gave them not to take the honey out of the body of the lion.
Even though he was the Son of God, he had knowledge of the things which he had done.
And he went in after the blade, and the fat was shut over the blade, because he did not put back the sword from his stomach; and it went out the back.
And if they had a memory of the land from which they went out, they would have a chance to come back.
And his wife's wife was weeping before him, and said, You have hate me and have no love for me: you have given up a riddle to the children of my people, and have not given it to me. And he said to her, See, I have not said to it, my father or my mother, and I will say to you.
May the Lord be judge, and judge between me and you, and take note of my cause, and take me out of your hands.
And when he came to him, he was seated by himself by himself privately, saying, I have a word from God to you. And he got up from his seat.
For there is a witness of the agreement when men are put to death, because it is in no way of force while the law is still living.
And his Son is the glory of his glory, and the image of his wealth, and the image of his power, by the word of his power, when he had made us clean from our sins, seated on the right hand of the king on high.
Now Saul was living at the edge of the town of Gibeah, under the scale of Migron, and there were about him six hundred men.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the chiefs of the Philistines were there; and there was on the roof about three thousand men and women, who saw the days of Jonathan.
And in their feasts, when they had been glad, they gave orders that the name of the son was to be named, and to make sport of them. And being put out of the prison, he gave orders before them, and they made him stand between two pillars.
And it came to pass in their coming in, when David came from striking the Philistines, and the women came out from all the towns of Israel to make music for Saul the king with instruments of music and with all sorts of music.
So then, my love, as you have done, not as in my face only, but now much more in my need, working out your salvation with fear and trembling.
Not that I am talking with you; for I have knowledge of myself in whatever I am, so that it may be pleasing to me.
And the men of Ephraim said to him, What is this you have done to us, that you did not let us go, when you went with Midian? And they were fighting with him.
Be certain, my brothers, so that there may not be any of you an evil heart of faith, in turning away from the living God.
In addition to the measure of the knowledge of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, because of whom I have undergone the loss of all things, and make them waste, so that I may have Christ.
For all those who make holy and those who are made holy are all from one; for he is not shamed to give them any shame.
Having been full of the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ to the glory and praise of God.
If, then, you may give comfort in Christ, if there is any comfort of love, if there is a part of the spirit of the spirit, if any of you has mercy and mercy,
And he said to them, If you have a desire to do this thing, I will not take rest if I have taken payment on you.
So David was kept in the field, and the new moon came, and the king was seated to take bread.
And now, when you have gone away from me, you will see two men by Rachel's resting-place, in the land of Benjamin, at the time of Benjamin, and they will say to you, The asses are waiting for you; and, behold, your father has taken care of the asses, saying, What am I to do for my son?
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of the newly-monite and Phinehas were dead.
And I give you more to do this, so that I may be given back to you.
And if your father has no faith in me, then you are to say, Let me go to Beth-lehem, his town, for the year is for all the families.
How will we get away if we have the great salvation of salvation? which has been given to us by the first word of the Lord?
And Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land; see how my eyes are shining, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
For I will have mercy on their wrongdoing, and I will no longer see their sins any longer.
And the king was seated on his seat, as at other times, on the seat by the wall; and Jonathan got up, and Abner was seated by Saul's side; but David's place was wasted.
And Samuel gave him all the tribes of Israel, and the name of the tribe of Benjamin was given to him.
And who will give ear to you in this question? for as his heritage goes down to the fight, so will his part be like the rest of his goods: they are to be equally equally.
And he said to David, I am certain that you are good in my eyes, like an angel of God: but the chiefs of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us into the fight.
And he said to her, If they are to put me to death with seven cords, I will be feeble and be like a man.
And when the men came, they saw that the image was on the bed with the hair on the head.
And the judges will be judged by the Lord, who kept them safe from the hands of those who were taken away.
And every tongue may give witness to that Jesus Christ, to the glory of God the Father.
For we have had news of good news to us, even as they did; but the word of the word was not good for them, but not by faith in those who had news.
And what will I say more? For the time has been turned away from me, and I have given up the words of the prophet, the son of Shimea, the son of Barachel, the son of Puah, of David, and of the prophets.
So let all your haters be cut off, O Lord, and those who have love for him are like the sun in his strength. And the land had rest for forty years.
But Jonathan had no news when his father gave the people an oath, and he put out his stick in his hand, and put it in the honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were shining.
And while they were full of joy, the men of the town, some of the feeble men, came round the house, crushing at the door; and they said to the master of the house, the old man, Send out the man who came into your house, that we may have sex with him.
And David and all the people who were with him gave up their voices, weeping till they had no sorrow.
And the priests of Dagon, and all who came to the house of Dagon, did not go on the doorstep of Dagon in Ashdod till this day.
And the tower of Peniel he had broken down and put to death the men of the town.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are there all your children? And he said, There is still the youngest, and, behold, he keeps the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and get him; for we will not be seated till he come here.
Without father and without mother, having no family lists of days or the end of life, but like the Son of God he has been a priest for ever.
And the woman came and said to her husband, A man of God came to me, and his form was like the form of an angel of God, very great: I did not ask him from where he came, and he did not give me his name.
And they went up to the town; and as they went into the town, Samuel came out to them, to go up to the high place.
So three thousand men went down to the rock of Etam, and said to the king, Do you not see that the Philistines are ruling over us? why are you doing this? And he said to them, As they did to me, so I have done to them.
And another went by the way of Beth-horon, and the third way went to the end of the valley, in the valley of the Arabah.
And David and his men went up, and took away the goods of the Geshurites, the father of Uzzi, and the Amalekites: for these were of the old men of the lands, and they went to the land of Egypt.
And when he came, he made a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he went before them.
See, if it goes up by the way of his town to Beth-shemesh, then he has done this great evil: but if not, then we will see that it is not his hand who put us to death: it was a time for us.
And they said to Saul, See, the people have done evil against the Lord, in order to take food with the blood. And he said, You have done wrong: let me now be a great stone.
How will we be free, having taken away the great salvation? which was given to us by the Lord, when they had given ear to us,
Then Saul said to Ahijah, Take the ark of God near the ark of God at that time with the children of Israel.
There is no one holy as the Lord, for there is no one beside you, and there is no Rock like our God.
And they went through the waste land, circling the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came to the other side of Moab, and put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon, but not in the direction of Moab: for the Arnon was the limit of Moab.
And a man of that place said, Who is their father? So it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
But they did not give ear to their chiefs, but they went after other gods and put their faces to them, turning away from the way their fathers went, who had kept the orders of the Lord, and did not do as their fathers did.
And David's two wives were taken away, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
And there was a pillar of smoke coming up from the town; and Benjamin looked back and saw that the town was taken, and the flames went up on high.
Take note that you do not give up the voice of the man who says, for if those who have not been given up to the earth get away from him, much less will we be able to get away from him who says to him from heaven,
And he said, Send me away, for we have a meal in the town, and my brother himself has given me orders, and now, if I have found grace in your eyes, let me go and see my brothers, for he has not come to the king's table.
Not looking for one of you to his own, but one to another.
For Christ did not come into a holy place made with hands, as in a design to the true: but now to heaven, to come before God for us.
So they went in flight and took him from there; and he got up in the middle of the people, and he was higher than any of the people from the arms and up.
For the law makes men priests, who have no disease; but the word of the oath which was from the law, the Son who is made complete for ever.
By faith, having been kept by faith, was moved with fear, making a ship for the salvation of his house, through which he had been judged the world, and became the heritage of the righteousness which is in faith.
And he took away the king of Amalek with the sword; but all the people he put to death with the sword.
And the wagon went into the field of Joshua, the slope of the town, and there was a great stone there; and they took the wood of the cart, and the oxen they gave up as a burned offering to the Lord.
The children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
Who is a copy of the writing and the shade of the things of heaven, even as Moses has said to himself when he is to make the tabernacle: for it is he who makes all things by the design which were shown you on the mountain.
And they said to Saul, See, the people have done evil against the Lord, in order that they may take food with the blood. And he said, You have been untrue, and have put a great stone on me today.
And the wife of Gilead gave birth to his sons; and his wife's sons got up and gave birth to laughing and said to him, You are not to take the heritage of our father's house, for you are the son of a strange woman.
And David took back all the Amalekites, and David took back his two wives.
And they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines to them, and said, What have we to do to the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, To Gath let the ark of the God of Israel be moved round. And they took the ark of the God of Israel round about.
Will I take my bread and my water and my flesh, which I have put to death for my wool, and give it to men of whom I do not come from?
Be full of joy in the Lord, and I will say, Be glad.
Not good is this thing which you have done: the Lord is living, but you sons of death, in that you have not been watching over your lord, even over the Lord's selection; and now, see where the king's spear and the water which is in his hands.
And he has said, See, I have come to do your pleasure. And he took away the first, so that he might make the second.
Having faith in this very thing, so that he who made you a good work will do till the day of Jesus Christ.
For the sin of false men is like the sin of strange men, and their hearts are false and false: because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, he has sent you away from being king.
And the name of his oldest son was Joel; and the name of the second was Abijah, and the judges in Beer-sheba.
And she said to Shammah, These are the things you have made sport of me, and say to me, Say to me, Say to me, If you are to be put in chains, let the two hair of my head be cut off.
So the Lord gave them into the hands of Jabin, king of Canaan, who was ruling in Hazor, and the chief captain of Midian, and he was living in the open country.
And she sent for her, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, and said to him, Has not the Lord, the God of Israel, says, Go and go to Mount Tabor and take with you ten thousand men of Naphtali and of Zebulun?
And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart be turned against him, for he will go and fight against the Philistines.
And to which of the angels said to him, Sit at my right hand till I put your feet under your feet?
No, my sons, for it is no good thing that I have news: you make the people of the Lord sin.
And if the man said to him, They will quickly put the fat to death, and then take as your soul desires; he will say to him, No; but if not, I will take by force.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, building a town, naming it Luz, which is its name to this day.
And the chiefs of Succoth said, Are you ever like Zebah and Zalmunna, so that we may give food to your army?
But one in a certain place has said, What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you take care of him?
And the army said to Saul, The death of Jonathan, who has done this great salvation in Israel? Far be it from him: as the Lord lives, not a hair from his head will come down to the earth, because he has been working with God this day. So the people took up Jonathan, and he did not come to death.
Now Abimelech was king over Israel for three years.
So they took their offerings and their horns into their hands; and he sent all the men of Israel, one to his tent, but three hundred of the men; and the tents of Midian were under him in the valley.
When you come into the town, you will see him, before he goes up to the high place to take food: for the people will not have enough to take food till he comes, because he has given blessing to the peace-offerings; and then you are to get yourself up, for at this time you will have him.
And a high priest over the house of God,
And they said to the men of Jabesh-gilead, This is what you are to say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, Tomorrow, when the sun is hot, you will have salvation. And the men of Jabesh-gilead came and gave news to the men of Jabesh-gilead, and they were glad.
Which is a sign to the present time, in which the offerings and the offerings are offered, which are not able to make clear to the evil man, to make perfect the man who is to be done.
So Samuel did what the Lord had said; and he came to Beth-lehem, and the responsible men of the town came trembling to him, saying, Have you come in peace?
And the children of Israel were questioning the Lord, and the ark of the agreement of God was there in those days.
And he had a head-dress of brass on his head; and he was clothed with a band of scales; and the weight of the bag was five thousand shekels of brass.
And he said to David, You are more upright than I am: for you have given me good reward, because I have done evil for you.
According to all the works which they have done from the day when I took them up out of the land of Egypt even to this day, by which they have gone away from me, and have served other gods, so do they to you.
And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Let him take care of him, and see in the power of his great strength, and with what we may overcome him, so that we may put him over to him, and we will give you eleven hundred shekels of silver.
And now what is under your hand? give me five cakes in my hand, or what may be seen.
So Abimelech was king over Israel for three years.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he said, Because this nation has broken my agreement which I gave to their fathers, and have not given ear to my voice:
And Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for David; and they gave news to Saul and the thing was right in his eyes.
At that time his feet are waiting for the feet of his feet.
And there were an altar to the Lord, and gave it to the Lord, and gave it to the Lord till this day. And when he was still in Halah, the family of Ezri,
And Manasseh did not take away Beth-shean and its daughter-towns, and the daughter-towns of Dor and the daughter-towns of Dor and its daughter-towns, or the people of Ibleam and its daughter-towns, or the people of Megiddo and its daughter-towns; and the Canaanites were living in that land.
For our God is a burning fire.
And he said to me, See, you are to give birth and give birth to a son, and do not drink wine or strong drink, and do not take anything unclean: for the child will be a man of God from the body to the day of his death.
Before the light of God went out, Samuel went to the house of the Lord, where the ark of God was.
And he said to her, If they give me up with seven green things which are never wasted, I will be feeble and become like another man.
And she said to him, My father, if you have open your mouth to the Lord, do to me what has come out of your mouth: for the Lord has taken punishment for you on your haters, against the children of Ammon.
And the men who were with him came to the end of the middle of the town at the time of the middle of the town, when they came to an end when they came to the end of the night; and when they came to an end, they were crushing the horns and the vessels which were in their hands.
For there was the fear of death in every town, and the hand of God was very hard: and the men who had not been put to death were troubled with the meal, and the cry of every town went up to heaven.
And Abigail came to the sister of Nabal, and saw that he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and the heart of the sinner was glad inside him, because he was very drunk. And she gave him word till the morning light.
A pillar on the north, on the north, at Michmash, and the other on the south, opposite Geba.
And he made request for water, and she gave milk; and in a drinking-vessel for the rulers, she took butter.
Now Saul and all the men of Israel were in the valley of God fight against the Philistines.
And he took ten men of his servants, as the Lord had given him orders; and fearing the house of his father and the men of that town, he would not do it by day, but did all by night.
Now the Lord, the God of Israel, has taken away the Amorite out of before his people Israel, and you take it to your heritage.
The voice of God came to Saul in the town of Gibeah, saying, Does not David put himself in secret in the hill country of the Lord?
And when David had knowledge that Saul was designing evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Take the ephod.
And when they saw him, they took thirty men, and they were with him.
And when the men of Ashdod saw it, they said, The ark of the God of Israel will not be with us; for his hand is hard on us and on our god Dagon.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did what was right in his eyes.
And he said, O Lord, the God of Israel, why has this come to pass in Israel, so that there may be one tribe in Israel for ever?
And the children of Israel did what was evil in the eyes of the Lord, and gave worship to the Baals, and to Ashtaroth, and to the gods of Aram, and to the gods of Moab, and to the gods of the children of Ammon, and to the gods of the Philistines, and to the gods of the Philistines: they turned away from the Lord, and did not serve him.
And Abimelech said in answer to the king, And who among all your servants is true as David, who is the son of the king, and is taken into your secret, and is honoured in your house?
And he had great instruments of brass on his feet, and a band of brass between his arms.
For this cause I have made a oath to the house of Heli, that the sin of his house may not be put to death, or offerings for ever.
And they said to David, See, the Philistines are fighting against the people of Keilah, and they take their store-houses.
And David said to Abiathar, the priest, the son of Ahimelech, Take the ephod here for me. And Abiathar took the ephod to David.
And he said to them, I, because Israel took away my land when he came up out of the land of Egypt, from the side of the Arnon to the river Jordan and the Jordan: now let the same peace come back to me.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of Midian seven years.
For the sin of false men is false, and their sin is changed; because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, he has sent you away from being king.
And when Joshua had let the people go, every man went to his heritage to take the land.
For faith is waiting for things which are waiting for, a sign which is not seen.
And David said to him, To whom are you? And where are you? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master went away from me, because three days of old I came to rest.
And at the end of the year, when she came to the house of the Lord, she made her bitter, and she was crying and did not have food.
And Jesse said to his son David, Take a basket of barley, and these ten cakes, and go to the tent-circle to your brothers.
And Saul said to Jonathan, his son, and to all his servants, to put David to death.
And this is the agreement which I will give to them after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws in their hearts, and I will put them in writing with them.
And the men of Israel made an oath in Mizpah, saying, Let no man give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.
And he took the goat of the goats and the meal offering and gave offerings to the Lord on the rock, and his wife was made great, and his wife was looking on him.
And they put his robe in the house of Ashtaroth, and put his body in the wall of Beth-shan.
And in the morning when the sun rises, you will get up early and go against the town; and see that he and his people go out to you, and you have done to him as your hand is.
When you go, you will go to a people safe and a great land: for God has given it into your hands, a place where there is no pleasure in the earth.
And they came to their brothers in Zorah and Eshtaol; and their brothers said to them, What do you say?
And the Amorite was desiring to live in the hill-country of tents, in Aijalon and in Bene-jaakan; and the hand of the house of Joseph was hard, and they became a servant.
And David took from her hands what she had taken for him; and he said to her, Go up to your house in peace. See, I have given ear to your voice, and I have given your request.
Yes, I say to you, that you may be an instrument of peace, helping those who have come with me in the good news of the good news and of the good news and my other workers in the book of life.
And the Hebrew of the Philistines was for the Philistines, who had gone up with them into the tent-circle with Saul and Jonathan.
And he said to David, I am certain that you are good in my eyes, as an angel of God: but the chiefs of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us to the fight.
And he said, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel give you your request which you have asked.
And he said to them, I will not have rule over you, and my son will not rule over you: the Lord will rule over you.
And from there came out of the family of Dan, out of Zorah, and out of Zorah, six hundred armed men for war.
And you have no memory of the comfort which has been given you to sons: my son, do not give up the training of the Lord, or be troubled by him.
And this will we do, if God lets us go.
And I will send three arrows on the side of it, and I will send out three arrows.
For this reason the Lord went out from among those nations, driving them out quickly, and he did not let them go into the hands of Joshua.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to themselves, May the Lord be a witness between us, so that we may do it.
For I am certain that this will give me salvation through your prayers and the measure of the Spirit of Jesus Christ:
Why do you make your hearts hard like the Egyptians, and Pharaoh's heart hard? is it not as he has done to them without cause, so that they send them away and they go away?
And David went with his men and went to Keilah with the Philistines, and took their cattle away with their cattle and overcame them; and David gave the people of Keilah to the people of Keilah.
Give orders to your rulers and be under them, for they are waiting for your souls, as those who are to give account, so that they may do this with joy and not with cries of grief, for that would be false for you.
And when he had put the rods on fire, he let them go into the grain-grain of the Philistines, and burned up the destruction and the grain, with the vine-gardens and the oil.
But the man would not keep the night that night; but he got up and went to the town of Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him a couple of asses saddled, and his wife was with him.
And the children of Dan said to him, Let not your voice be heard with us, or they will be in trouble on you, and take your life and the life of your house.
For God is the man who is working in you and is working for his good pleasure.
And Phinehas his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was near to be given birth; and when she had news that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband was dead, she gave herself to her face and gave birth, for her pain came on her.
And it will be, when their fathers or their brothers come against us, we will say to them, Make us an agreement with them, because we did not take every man his wife in the war: for you did not give them to them, so that you would be judged.
To our God and Father be glory for ever and ever.
And the angel of the Lord said to another, From all the things I have said to your wife, let her keep her.
And there was fear in the tents, in the open field, and among all the army of the army; and the band was shaking, and the earth was moved, and it became very great.
And how much more, if the people had given food to the day of the goods of their haters which they had seen? for there was not a great number of destruction among the Philistines.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have given ear to the voice of the Lord, and have gone the way which the Lord sent me; and I have sent down Amalek, the king of Amalek, and have put destruction on Amalek.
Now put her word in her heart, but her lips were moved, but her voice was not heard: for it was said, She was made drunk.
And David overcame the land, and did not keep man and woman, and took sheep and oxen and asses and camels and clothing, turning back and came to his face.
And when he had said this, he went away and went to Bera, and there was fear of Abimelech his brother.
And now, if you have done what you have done, O Lord; if you have done what you have done, O king of Abimelech, if you have done good to war and for war, and if you have done what you have done to him,
And they said to him, No, but we will put you in flight and give you into their hands; but certainly certainly we will not put you to death. And they put him in two bands and took him up from the rock.
And the Philistines sent for priests and the readers of the Chaldaeans, saying, What do we do to the ark of the Lord? let us see how we send it to its place?
I made a request to the Ethiopian, who gave birth to the name of the Lord, who said,
So David went away from there and went to the rock of Adullam, and his brothers and all his father's house came down to him.
And the children of the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the town of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the waste land of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and were living with the people.
For this cause I have made a oath to the house of God, that the sin of the house of birth may not be made clean with offering or offerings for ever.
And they went back to the house of the young man, the son of Levi, to the house of Micah, and gave him rest.
And a certain angel of the Lord came to the woman, and said to her, See, you have a child, and you have not given birth; when you have given birth, you have a son.
Having then a great high priest who has gone through the heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us keep our faith.
And David said to the priest, See, women have been taken back from us, as I have gone out before; and the vessels of the young men are holy when it is gone: how much more will the things be holy today?
But he took the form of a servant and was made in the form of men, and was seen as a man.
And a band of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
And when the Philistines had hair, and the news was about among them, the son of Jonathan came into the town, shutting the watch at the doorway of the town, watching all the night quietly, so that in the morning they might put him to death as he went out.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, the best and beautiful man; and there was not among the children of Israel a man named him, from his arms and upward than any of the people.
And when David came back from the death of the Philistines, Abner took him and took him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And Abimelech was told that all the men of Shechem had come together.
And he will give them to him for captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and he will put some to ploughing his land, and to get his grain, and to make his instruments of war and the instruments of his war-carriages.
The stream of the river goes before them, the stream of the river, the stream flowing with the stream; on my soul are my soul with strength.
And the man said to him, I am the man who has come out of the way, and I have gone out of the army today. And he said, What is the thing, my son?
And he put an ephod on it and put it in his town, in the town of Ophrah; and all Israel went there a strange way after it, and it became a net for the king and for his house.
And Saul and his men went to search for him, and they said to David, So he went down to the rock, and was in the waste land. And when Saul had news of it, he went after David in the waste land.
And David's men said to him, See, we are in the land of Judah, and how much more when we go to Keilah, to the army of the Philistines?
And Phinehas his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child, and she gave birth to the news about the words of the ark of God, and her father-in-law, and her husband, and she came to give birth and gave birth, because her pain came on her.
And its sons, after their flight, went in flight, and he went after them, and took away the two kings of Midian with Zebah and Zalmunna; and all the people of Midian were troubled.
And he saw a strong ass of a ass, stretching out his hand and took it and put it to death with a thousand men.
May the Lord judge between me and you, and may the Lord give me punishment on you, but my hand will not be against you.
And she said, The glory has gone away from Israel, for the ark of God has been taken.
Now I desire to have you knowledge, brothers, that the things which have come to me have turned to the good news.
And the tenth of your seed and of your vine-gardens he will give to his servants and his servants.
And the children of Dan said to him, Let not your voice be heard among us, lest a man be angry with you, and you give up your life and the life of your house.
And Eber, the Kenites, was parted from the land of the Kenites, of the sons of Hobab, the father-in-law of Moses; and he put up their tents at the outskirts of the town of Succoth, which is near Kedesh.
And the watchmen of Saul, who were in the town of Benjamin, looked, and there was a great mass of fear, turning away from this way.
For by the greater word men make an oath, and a curse is to them for a sign.
And the children of Israel put away the images of Baal and Ashtaroth and the Lord only.
And the Edomite, whose name was by the servants of Saul, said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub.
And there came an angel of the Lord, and took his seat under the tree in Ophrah, to Joash, the son of Shelomoth, who was responsible for storing grain in the wine, to keep safe from the Midianites.
And he came up and said to his father and his mother, I saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now get her for me to wife.
And he got up and went after his wife, and came to the man and said to him, Are you the man who had said to the woman? And he said, I am.
To the band and the number of the first child in heaven, and to God the judge of all; and to the spirits of the upright men made perfect;
And the woman said, Whom am I to give you up? And he said, Give me up Samuel.
And Jair came to death, and was put to death in the place where he was named.
And Saul said to David, Happy are you, my son David: for you will do so much, and will overcome. So David went his way, and Saul went back to his place.
But he said to me, See, you are to give birth and give birth to a son, and do not drink wine or strong drink, and do not take any unclean thing: for the child will be a husband to God from the body to the day of his death.
So Christ, having been offering for the sins of many, will come a second time, without sin, to those waiting for him, to be saved.
And by faith Moses was given birth for three months by his parents, because they saw the child fair and were not afraid of the order of the king.
And David got up, and went with his men, and put to death two hundred men of the Philistines; and David took their rods and gave them to the king, so that he might be the son-in-law of the king; and Saul gave him Michal, his daughter, as wife.
And they came to their brothers in Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brothers said to them, What do you say?
And David went up from there, and made his living-place in a strong tower.
And Saul said to his servants, Give me now a man who is able to do well, and give him to me.
And now, as your life was honoured this day in my eyes, so let my soul be honoured in the eyes of the Lord, so that he may give me salvation from all trouble.
The Lord gave them into the hands of Jabin, king of Canaan, who was king in Hazor, the captain of Sisera, the chief of the nations.
And the Philistines came by morning and evening, and took their place forty days.
And Abraham took Isaac by the faith, and gave him his only child.
But where there is forgiveness of them, there is no longer a sin-offering.
And Samuel said to all the people of Israel, If you go back to the Lord with all your heart, put away the strange gods from among you, even the images of Baal and Ashtaroth, and give your hearts to the Lord, and be his servant, and he will give you salvation from the hand of the Philistines.
And they went away from the Lord, worshipping Baal and Ashtaroth.
And when he had taken him down, they went on all the earth, feasting and drinking and dancing because of all the great wealth which they had taken from the land of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah.
And the people had pity on them for Benjamin, because the Lord had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And see, and take note of all the places where he is in secret, and come back to me with knowledge, that I may go with you; and if he is in the land, I will send him out through the thousands of Judah.
And when the daughters of the Philistines saw it, they went back to Ekron on the same day.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went to his place.
And when the ruler of the town, the ruler of the town, had news of the words of Gath, his wrath was burning.
After all that generation had come to their fathers, another generation came after them, who had no knowledge of the Lord or the work which he had done for Israel.
God has given the chiefs of Midian into your hand to Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with you? And their wrath was turned to him, as he had said.
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, because we have taken an oath in the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord will be between me and you, and between my seed and your seed for ever. Then he got up and went away, and Jonathan went into the town.
And laughing went over to the children of Ammon to fight against them: and the Lord gave them into his hands.
And there was a man of Mount Ephraim whose name was Micah.
If he is able to make war with me and overcome me, then we will be your servants; but if I have overcome him and overcome him, then you will be our servants, and you will be our servants.
And by the blood of the goats and of the herd, but by the blood of his blood, he has come into the most holy place, having a right payment for ever.
And when David had news of the dead of the dead, he said, Happy is the Lord, who has put the cause of my shame from the hand of the dead, and has kept back his servant from evil: the Lord has put back the evil man of the sinner on his head. And David sent and said of Abigail, to take her as wife.
And she said, The Philistines are on you, O Lemuel. And when he got up from his sleep, he said, I will go out as at another time before, and I will go out quickly; and he did not see that the Lord had gone away from him.
And the children of Joseph went to Beth-el, and the Lord was with them.
And he had a head-dress of brass on his head, and a robe of iron, and five thousand shekels of brass.
When I blow the horn, I and all who are with me, blow the horns on every side of all the tent-circle, saying, The sword of the Lord and of the rod on it.
And he said, Let me be put to death with the Philistines, so that he may be overcome with great power; and the house will fall on the chiefs and on all the people who are in it, and the dead man whom he has put to death are more than those he put to death in his life.
For this time I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you will put oil on him as ruler over my people Israel: he will give my people out of the hands of the Philistines: for I have seen the troubles of my people, for their cry has come to me.
And Saul said to his father's brother, He made clear to us that the asses were found: but about the rule of the kingdom of Samuel, he gave orders to him.
For we have faith in Christ, if we keep the first of our faith in the end.
So that this may be no grief to you or a cause of heart to my lord, or that you have put the blood to shame, or that my lord has taken payment for himself: but when the Lord has done good to my lord, let your servant be remembered.
And when they came to him, he saw Eliab and said, Truly, his oil is before the Lord.
And the Lord was with Judah, driving out the people of the mountain, but they were not able to send out the people of the valley, because they had breastplates of iron.
As it is right for me to take care of you all, because I have you in my chains, and in my chains, and in the cause of the good news, all of you are of grace with me.
For he who has come into his rest has rest from his works, as God did from his own.
And the Philistines came together to Aphek, and Israel put up their tents by the spring of Jezreel.
And she gave ear to the voice of the cry, and said, What is the noise of this trouble! And the man went in quickly, and came in, and said,
And the children of Israel got up and went up to Beth-el, questioning God, and said, Which of us will go up first against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said, Judah first.
And Saul went back from the pursuit of David, and went with the Philistines; and they sent for the place where the Philistines were.
The word of life, which has been given to me, is glad to me in the day of Christ, that I did not go in flight, or in the work of no effect.
And they said, If you send the ark of the God of Israel away, do not send it away; but by all means give a sin-offering to him, and you will be made well, and it will be clear to you that his hand is not taken away from you.
And God made selection of old men, and war was in the doors; and there was no small body-covers or a spear among forty thousand in Israel.
And he said to him, O my lord, if the Lord is with us, why has all this has been done to us? and where are all his wonders which our fathers gave us to us, saying, Did not the Lord give us up out of Egypt? But now the Lord has turned us away from us, and has given us into the hands of Midian.
According to all the works which they have done from the day when I took them up out of the land of Egypt even to this day, because they have gone away from me, and have gone after other gods to you.
And Saul said, This is what you are to say to David: The king has no desire for a price, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be taken by the king's haters. But Saul thought to make David fall by the Philistines.
Why, when he comes into the world, he says, Give offerings and offerings to you, but you are ready for me.
For the law has a shade of the good things to come, not even the image of the things; by the same offerings which they give to every year, may not be able to make it complete.
And when Saul had news that David was seen, and the men who were with him, while Saul was living in Gibeah, he was in the wood which was by Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were waiting for him.
And the men came in, and saw that the image was in the bed, and the net was on its head.
And when the woman saw Samuel and crying with a loud voice, the woman said to Saul, Why have you tricked me, and you are Saul?
And let us be looking for one another to make love and good works.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, Why are you questioning my name, seeing that it is not clear?
Then the chiefs of the Philistines went out, and David was wiser than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was honoured.
And they went and went in flight into the waste land, to the rock of Rimmon six hundred men, and they were living in the rock for four months.
And he said, Let me be put to death with the Philistines. And he made himself low with all his strength: and the house came down on the heads and on all the people who were in it; and the dead which he put to death was more than those he had put to death in his life.
And Samuel said, What have I to do with the sheep of my ears, and the voice of the oxen which I give hearing?
And when the spirit of God was on Saul, David took the harp with his hands, and he was comforted and was well, and the evil spirit went away from him.
And God gave witness to them, with signs and wonders, and with all sorts of powers, and by the gifts of the Holy Spirit, by his will.
And the children of Benjamin, by their families, were marked out by their families; and Saul, the son of Kish, was marked out; but when they looked for him, he was not able to be seen.
And he overcame Amalek, the king of Amalek, and all the people he had given by the sword.
And Saul, and Jonathan, his son, and the people who had been seen with them, were living in Geba; and the Philistines put up their tents at Michmash.
Only with food and drinking, and with all sorts of things made by the law till the time of their sins.
And David said to Abiathar, I was certain that day, when the Edomites were there, he would say to Saul, I am responsible for all the persons of your father's house.
And Samuel said to all the people, See the man whom the Lord has chosen, that there is no one like him among all the people? And all the people said, Long life is the king.
Now a new and new way which he has made for us through the veil, which is to say,
And Jonathan, the son of Saul, got up and went to David to the woods and made his hand strong in God.
At the end of all the men of Gilead, they went to war with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead overcame Ephraim, because they said, You are safe of Ephraim, O Gilead, in the middle of Ephraim and in the middle of Manasseh.
And Saul put on his clothing, put on other clothing, and went with two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and said, I pray you, O God, by the spirit of birth, and give me up whom I will give you a name.
Keeping the word of life, so that I may have something to be praised in the day of Christ, that I did not go in vain or work in it.
And Samuel took a stone and put it between Mizpah and burning it; and he said, Up to the help of the Lord!
And David said to the priest and said to him, Truly, as for women, we have kept ourselves from yesterday and the day before, when we came out, and the vessels of the young men were holy. Now this way is made unclean, but it will be made holy today in the vessels.
And the Lord will give reward to every one according to his righteousness and his faith: for the Lord has given you this day into my hand, and I will not put my hand on the king of the Lord.
Then Samuel went up from Gilgal to the town of Benjamin; and he numbered the men who were present with him, about six hundred men.
What is it then? in every way, or in anything, or in the knowledge, Christ has been given; and in this I have joy, and I will be glad.
And when they gave up the memory of the Lord their God, he gave them into the hands of Sisera, the captain of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab, and they made war against them.
And I will send word to my servant, saying, Go and see the arrows. If I say to the boy, See, the arrows are on this side; then come, and come; for it is to be peace for you, and there is no cause, as the Lord lives.
But the hair of his head was to come up on his head after his hair.
So take your stand, so that I may judge you before the Lord for all the works of the Lord which he has done with you and your fathers.
So they put up for themselves the image of his image, which he made: and it was kept by the house of God in Shiloh.
And you are to make no agreement with the people of this land: you will be broken down their altars, but you have not given ear to my voice: why have you done this?
And he will take the tenth of your sheep and be his servants.
And all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before the Lord at Gilgal; and there they made offerings of peace before the Lord: and Saul and all the men of Israel were glad.
Even the Zidonians and the Amalekites and the Ashdodites have done cruel things against you; and you cry to me, and I have kept you safe from their hands.
And he had forty sons and thirty children on his asses, for eight years.
I will put this wool of wool on the floor; if there be dew on the wool, and it is dry on all the earth, I will see that by my hand you will give Israel salvation.
God, who in the waste times and in all sorts of things made clear to the fathers by the prophets,
Having faith in this very thing, that he who has made you a good work will be complete to Jesus Christ's day.
And a great priest over the house of God,
And the strength of Israel will not be false, and the strength of Israel will not be changed: for he is not a man to change his mind.
But the chiefs of the Philistines were angry with him; and the chiefs of the Philistines said to him, Let the man go back, and let him go back to his place where you have made him, and let him not go down with us to the fight, or in the fight he has made an attack against us: for with which of this man make an atonement for his lord? Is it not with the heads of these men?
For this day the Lord will give you into my hand, and I will put your head on you, and I will take your head from you, and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines today to the birds of the air, and to the beasts of the earth, and to the beasts of the earth: and all the earth may see that there is a God in Israel.
Of whom it was said, A seed will be given to you in Isaac.
And Jonathan overcame the forces of the Philistines who were in Geba; and the Philistines had news of it. And Saul blew the horn through all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews give ear.
And there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats, and he was cutting his sheep at Carmel.
Then the Philistines took their hands on him, and pulled out his eyes, and took him in chains to Gaza, shutting him in prison.
And the responsible men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Let us only for seven days, and let us send representatives to all the land of Israel; and if there is no saviour, we have come out to you.
So Asher was living among the Canaanites, and the people of the land, because they did not send them out.
That he might have knowledge of him, and the power of his coming back to life, and the living of his troubles, being made ready to death;
And when Jacob came to Egypt, your fathers were crying out to the Lord, and he sent Moses and Aaron, and they took your fathers out of Egypt, and put them in this place.
And they gave orders to Sisera, the son of Abinadab, and they went up to Mount Tabor.
And again there was a second time, and said, See, there are men in the middle of the land, and one company comes by the way of the great tree.
Wherever they went out, the hand of the Lord was against them, as the Lord had said; and as the Lord had made an oath to them, and they were greatly troubled.
And Saul said to God, Will I go down after the Philistines? will you give them up into the hands of Israel? But he gave him no answer that day.
So that we may give praise to God for ever, to give praise to God.
Now there was a Levite, living on the side of Ephraim, who took a wife of Beth-lehem in Beth-lehem,
And in the hearing of the people, say, Whoever is in fear and in fear, let him go back from the hill-country of Gilead, and let twenty thousand men go back from the land of Gilead.
For this reason, holy brothers, take part in the place of heaven, give thought to the Apostle and the high priest of our faith, Jesus,
What do we do for them? for we have given an oath by the Lord not to give to them of our daughters for wives.
And Saul said, Say this to David: The king has no desire for a price, but only a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be taken by the king's haters. Now Saul thought to give David help over the Philistines.
And he went in to give birth, and said, See, I am, for you have been called me. And he said, I did not come, get up again. And he went and lay down.
And Abraham gave Isaac his approval by faith, and his only child was given to him.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, even Oreb and Zeeb; and they put to death at the rock of Oreb; and they put to death the metal of Zeeb in the wine, driving the chiefs of Oreb and Zeeb on the other side of the Jordan.
But Christ has come as a high priest of the coming of the good things, through the greater and in the complete House, not with hands, which is to say, not of this made:
And falling down at his feet, he said, Let me, my lord, the wrongdoing; and let your servant say in your ears, and give ear to the words of your servant.
And this will be a sign to you, who will come on your two sons, on the twenty-fourth day of the month, on the twenty-fourth day of the month, on the day of their death.
See, all of you, O children of Israel, give your counsel and your designs.
For when he himself was put to the test, he is able to help those who are in need.
By faith he went out of Egypt, and did not have fear of the king's wrath, because he was put to death, as if he had seen him who had no knowledge.
And having been made upright, he was to all those who keep him, the God of eternal salvation,
And all the people of Shechem came together, and all the houses of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king, by the great tree in Shechem.
Say to all the holy ones in Christ Jesus.
And he sent and took him in. And he was red, with a beautiful face and a beautiful face. And the Lord said, Up, put oil on him, for this is he.
And when Samuel was dead, all Israel came together, weeping for him and put him in his house at Ramah; and David got up and went down to the waste land of Paran.
May not the Lord be able to put out my hand against the king of the Lord: but now take the spear on his head and the water, and let us go.
How much more, if the people had given food to this day of the goods of their haters which they had seen? now there was no great destruction among the Philistines.
So when David and his men came to the town and saw it burned with fire, their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken prisoners;
Take care of the dogs, take care of those who do evil, take care of the debt.
And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog, that you come to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And when the people came into the tent-circle, the responsible men of Israel said, Why has the Lord put us to death today before the Philistines? let us get the ark of the Lord's agreement from Shiloh, and give it to us, so that it may come among us and be safe from the hand of our haters.
And it was said, See, people come down from the middle of the land, and a band goes by the way of the great tree.
And Saul said to Michal, Why have you tricked me, so that you send away my enemy and he is safe? And Michal said to Saul, Send me away. Why have I put you to death?
And the king said, Make search for your son.
And all the men of Israel who had come secretly in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they had news that the Philistines had gone away, they went after them in the war.
And when the men of the town got up early in the morning, they saw the altar of Baal cut down, and the Asherah cut down, and the second ox was placed on the altar, which is the building.
And others were attempting to make sport of and to make blows, and to put in chains and chains.
And wisdom said to the responsible men of Gilead, Have you not hated me and put me out of my father's house? why have you come to me now when you are in trouble?
For in the time you are to be masters, you have need to be teachers of the first desires of the law of God; and you have need of milk and not of strong food.
And when he came to him, he was seated in the cool floor of the field for himself, and said, I have a word from God to you, and he got up from the place.
And here men who are dead get the tenth part of the land, but there he takes them, and there he is witnesses that he is living.
And David said to him, But what have I done? and what have you seen in your servant from the day I was before you till this day, so that I may not go in and fight against the haters of my lord the king?
For it is God who works in you, to do what is right and what is right.
We are able to say that through Abraham even to Levi, who takes the tenth part, has given the tenth part;
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David come before me, for he has had grace in my eyes.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to go before the Lord, this holy God? to whom will he go up from us?
Jesus Christ and day and ever.
Give ear, O kings; give ear, O rulers, to the Lord; I will make songs of praise to the Lord, the God of Israel.
And after him, the son of Beth-lehem, the son of Beth-lehem, was judging Israel.
I give praise to my God in all memory of you;
By faith Moses was given birth for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a fair child, and they were not afraid of the king's order.
For Israel and the Philistines had made ready for war, and war for war.
Of whom we have much things to say, and hard to be given up; and you have no sense.
And the three sons of Jesse went after Saul to fight; and the name of his three sons was Eliab the oldest, and the second Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
For this cause the bow and the high knees are ready for you;
And Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went to Shechem and put their faith in Shechem.
And put her word in her heart; but her lips were moved, but her voice was not heard. So she said, She was overcome with wine.
And when King David saw that Saul had put to death the priests of the Lord,
So David took counsel to the Lord, saying, Am I to go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go, and you will overcome the Philistines and be safe.
And at the end of two months she went back to her father, and he did to her as he had said; and she had no relations with a man, and it became a year to Israel.
And as many as the stars of heaven in number, and as much as the sand by the sea, was the father of one man, and he was dead.
And he gave back the money to his mother, and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to a gold-image; and he made them a metal image and a metal image in the house of Micah.
And Saul said to David, You are not able to go against the Philistines to fight with him; for you are only a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
And when Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was troubled greatly.
And when the faith was given to Enoch, he was not able to see death, but he was not seen, because God had given orders to him: for before his death he had given witness to God.
And the Zidonians and Amalek and the people of the land have been cruel to you, and you cry to me, and I keep you safe from their hands.
And he put it on the plate, in the pot, in the pot, in the pot, in the pot, and in the pot; and all the birds of the field took it; so they did in Shiloh to all the children of Israel.
Why do you go under foot on my offerings and on my heritage which I have given orders in my house? and you take your sons over me, to make yourselves fat with the offerings of all the offerings of my people Israel.
She puts her hand to the place of the tent, and her right hand to the hammer; with the hammer she put on to Sisera, and with the hammer of his head, cutting through his head.
That night the Lord said to him, Take a young ox of your father, and another ox for seven years, and take away the altar of Baal, which is your father's, and cut down the Asherah which is round the altar:
By the window she saw, crying out, The mother of Sisera, crying out through the window, Why is his carriage so long in coming? why are the wheels of his war-carriages?
And we are not able to give them wives from our daughters, for the children of Israel have made an oath, saying, Cursed he who gives a wife to Benjamin.
And Saul went back from following David, and went to the Philistines; and they gave that place the Rock of visions.
And again there was a second time, and said, See, men are coming down by the middle of the earth, and another group comes by the Arabah.
And it will be said, Because the Lord has given shame and Zalmunna to the Lord, I have crushed your flesh with the thorns in the waste land, and with the grain-instruments.
And Jonathan said to Saul, Let me go up to Beth-lehem.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have said anything for another day.
And he went running to him, and said, Here am I, for you have been my servant. And he said, I have no name; sleep again. And he went and lay down.
And the sons of Dan: Zorah and Eshtaol, with six hundred men armed for war.
And they saw an Egyptian in the field, and took him to David; and they gave him food, and he gave him food; and they gave him water.
Give your word to me by the Lord, that you will not take away my seed after me, and you will not put my name in my father's house.
Take away the sin of your servant, for the Lord will certainly make my lord a safe place, because my lord is fighting against the Lord, and evil will not be seen in you all your days.
Now there was a sign between the men of Israel and the men of war, to make a great cloud from the town.
And I say to the law, All things are made clean with blood, and without blood there is no forgiveness.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble ( for the people were troubled), then the people kept themselves in the holes and in the thick places and in the rocks and in holes and in holes and in holes.
Now when Jesus came to us, he became a high priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And from there they went to the people of Debir, and the name of Debir was Kiriath-sepher.
And falling on his feet he went down to his face and put down his face; and falling on her feet he went down; and where he was bent, there he came down.
And they said, You have not done wrong with us, and you have not put us to death; you have not taken any man's hand.
This will not be a cause of grief to you, and a bit of heart to my lord, if you have put to death the blood of those who have done wrong, or have taken payment for yourself; and when the Lord will have done well by my lord, you will have respect for your servant.
And there was a great man from the tents of the Philistines named Goliath, the Gittite, whose height was six cubits, and a span went out.
For if the first man had been without rest, there was no place for the second.
And I am certain that I am certain that I will be living with you all, because your behaviour and joy in faith.
And David sent ten young men, and David said to the young men, Go up to Carmel and go to the Carmelite, and give him a kiss in my name.
And Samuel, hearing all the words of the people, gave them an account of the Lord.
Only fear the Lord, and keep him in the faith with all your heart, because of what he has done for you.
And the children of Israel went out on the day to fight against the children of Benjamin.
And I will come to you, to the river of Kishon, and to Sisera, the captain of the army of Jabin, with his war-carriages and his army; and I will give him into your hands.
And the angel of the Lord came to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, you, O strong man.
Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God, and they took it from the hand of Ashdod.
And Saul put on clothing, put on other clothing, and went, he and two men with him; and they came to the woman by night, and said, Make request for me by the spirit, and give me up to whom I will give you a name.
Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went to his house at Gibeah of Saul.
And Jotham went away and went in flight and went to Beer-sheba, and there he was living in fear of his brother Abimelech.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Truly you are like Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom you have given me shame, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, so that we may give food to your men who are tired?
And David said, Will the men of Keilah take me and my men into the hands of Saul? And the Lord said, They will be safe.
And he kept the Passover and the blood of the blood, so that the destruction of the first child might not come on them.
The five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite and the Zidonians and the Hivites living in Lebanon, from Mount Hermon, as far as Hamath.
And he had thirty sons on horseback on thirty asses; and they had thirty towns in the land of Gilead, which they gave the name of Jair to this day.
And his wife said to him, If the Lord wanted to put us to death, he had not taken from our hands the burned offering and the meal, or ever let us see all these things, or as at this time made us give ear.
Who have been made not by the law of the flesh, but by the power of death.
And David said, Truly, in vain have I kept all this in the waste land, so that there is nothing for all that was his; and he has given me evil for good.
The same things which you have seen in me, and now you are hearing about me.
For this cause I am hoping to send at once, when I see how it goes with me.
See, I am a witness against me before the Lord, and before his selection: whose ox I have taken, and whose ass have I taken? or who have I taken away? or who have I been put to shame? or of whose hand have I taken a ransom for my eyes? and I will give it back to you.
And the towns which the Philistines had taken away from Israel were given up to Israel, from Ekron to Gath; and Israel was safe from the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel will not be with us; for his hand is hard on us and on our god Dagon.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what is good in your eyes, till your husband is waiting for him, but may the Lord give effect to his word. And the woman is living, and she keeps her son till she has taken care of him.
There is grain and food for our asses, and bread and wine for me and for your woman-servant and for the young man who is with your servants: there is no pleasure in any thing.
Now these things were made ready, and the priests went in all directions into the first House, doing the work.
And Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what will we take the man? for the bread is gone in our vessels, and we have no part to give to the man of God. What have we?
And the men of the town were glad, and the men of the town came round the house, crushing at the door; and they said to the master of the house, the old man, Give birth to the man who came into your house, so that we may see him.
If you have done a true thing, and have been true to war and with his house today, then you are glad in Abimelech, and let him be glad in you.
For this cause, holy brothers, take part in the selection of the selection, take note of the Apostle and the high priest of our faith, Christ Jesus;
And it came to pass, when they had taken it, that the hand of the Lord was against the town with great fear: and he sent destruction on the men of the town, small and great, and pulling out on them.
And if your father has no faith in me, then say, I have said to you, Let me go to Beth-lehem, his town, for it is the year for all the families.
O Lord, when you went out of Seir, when you went out of the land of Edom, the earth was shaking, and the heavens dropped, and the cloud dropped water.
And Saul said to him, Whose son art you, you young? And David said, I am the son of your servant, the son of Jesse.
And the name of his oldest son was Joel; and the name of his second was Abijah; and they were judges in Beer-sheba.
And the people, when they saw it, gave praise to their god, and said the same thing, Our god has given us our sword into our bands, and he who made our country a great number of death.
And Jonathan said to Saul, Let me go to Beth-lehem.
Now take up your oxen, and get ready for yourselves a new cart and two milk cows, on which there has come no hard yoke; and the oxen will be put to the cart, and the oxen will be taken away from them.
And the three hundred sounding the horns, and the Lord put the sword on his neighbour through all the tents; and the tents went in flight to Beth-shemesh, at Michmethath, to the land of Abel-beth-maacah, at the end of the bath.
And Jonathan gave an oath again to David, because he had love for him: for he loved him as he loved himself.
And when the judge was dead, they went back and made themselves unclean more than their fathers, and went after other gods to give them worship, and to give worship to them: they did not give up their evil ways or from their hearts.
And David said to Abimelech, Is there not here under your hand a spear or a sword? for I have not put my sword or my sword with me, because the king's business is quickly ready.
And the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, for he had nine hundred war-carriages of iron, and he was very cruel to the children of Israel twenty years.
And he said to him, O my Lord, if the Lord is with us, why has all this come to us? and where are all his wonders which our fathers said to us, Did not the Lord send us up out of Egypt? And now the Lord has put us off and given us into the hands of Midian.
And when David had said these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and cried.
For it is necessary for you to undergo your faith: for God has been with you as with child, for what is the son whom his father has not training?
But you have knowledge of the sign of him, that, as a child a father, he has worked with me in the work of the good news.
And Israel was greatly troubled in the eyes of Midian.
Now God is able to get up from the dead; and so he gave him a story.
Make request to your young men, and they will say to you, and the young men have grace in your eyes; for on a good day we have come; give it to your servants and your son and to David.
And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog, that you may come to me with rods? Then the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
Not that I am looking for the grace, but for the fruit which may be increased for you.
For he says, You are a priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek.
And when Samuel had ears of all the words of the people, he said to them,
And his father-in-law, the father of the young woman, kept him, and he stayed with him for three days; and they took food and drink and put their rest in the night.
And the trees came to give a king over them; and they said to the olive-tree, Give us up over us.
Then Saul said to his servants, Come to me a woman who has a certain spirit, that I may go to her and get a search for her. And his servants said to him, See, there is a woman who has a certain spirit at En-dor.
For it is clear that our Lord is a man of the children of Judah, to whom Moses said nothing about the priests.
In this way God will do to the haters of David, and he will give them more more than ever, if I go from all that he has till the morning is seated on the wall.
And he said to her, If they keep me with new cords, I will be feeble and become like another man.
Let your way be clear to all men: the Lord is near.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines, and they said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go back to its place, so that it may not be put to death or our people. For there was a great trouble in all the town, and the hand of God was very hard.
God has given the chiefs of Midian into your hand to Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with you? and their wrath was turned to him, as he had said.
So fear the Lord, and be his servant in the faith and in your heart, for you have seen the great works which he has done among you.
So that he who made a good work in you will keep it till the day of Christ Jesus.
But what profit has I to do for me, these have I thought about Christ?
Though I, myself, have put my hope in the flesh, if any man is able to have faith in the flesh, I still am still.
And when Saul saw that he was wise, he was in fear of him.
But Sihon had no faith in Israel to go through his land; and Sihon took all his people together and put up their tents in Jahaz, attacking Israel.
They turned away from the Lord, the God of their fathers, who took them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, of the gods of the peoples who were round them, and gave worship to them, and they made the Lord angry.
And the watchmen saw a man coming out of the town, and they said to him, Let us see the door of the town, and let us be kind to you.
And about ten days after, the Lord put the sinner to death,
Then his brothers and all the family of his father came down and took him up, and took him up, and put him in his body, and put him in his body in the resting-place of the resting-place of his father, after twenty years.
And David said to Abiathar, I was certain that day, when the Edomites were there, he would say to Saul, I have seen the death of all the people of your father's house.
And David sent for some men, and he was certain that Saul had come for certain.
And questioning the Lord for him, he gave him food and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
By faith, having been made clear to the things which had been seen by Noah, when he was overcome by fear, he made the ark ready for the salvation of his house, through which he had made the world judge the world, and of the righteousness which was in his faith.
And it came to pass, when they had taken up the meal at Shiloh, and had overcome them, the priest was seated on the seat of the house of the Lord,
For the rest, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is able to do, whatever is pleasing, whatever is able to do, whatever is able to do, whatever is able to do; if there is any honour or a praise, it is to be done.
And Jesse made seven of his sons before Samuel; and Samuel said, The Lord has not taken these things.
And David was the youngest; and the three sons went after him.
And Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. Now the child was waiting before the Lord in the presence of Heli the priest.
And at the end of every year, when the time came again that they went up to the house of the Lord, she made her bitter: but she was crying and did not have food.
And it was given to the town of Gath, saying, The son of Jonathan has come here. And they went round about him and put waiting for him all night in the town, and keep quiet all the night, saying, In the morning we will put him to death.
And the Lord said again, Samuel. And the name of Samuel came to him, and said, Here I am; for you have been called me. And he said, I did not call, my son, get up again.
And Saul put on David's robes, and put a head-dress of brass on his head, and put a robe in him.
Let the angel of the Lord be cursed, says the angel of the Lord, and put a curse on her people, because they did not come to help the Lord, to help the Lord.
And Samuel was judged by Samuel all the days of his life.
For God is not evil to keep your work and the work of love which you have made clear to his name, in which you have been for the saints, and to do the work.
So Moab was overcome that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest for eighty years.
The words of the old have come from the evil-doers, but my hand will not be on you.
For the word of God is living, and his work is hard, more than a two-edged sword, and cruel to the parted of soul and spirit, of the work and the best, and quick to see the thoughts and thoughts of the heart.
And he gave them the door of the town, and they overcame the town with the sword; but they let the man and all his family go.
And as they went up the road to the town, they saw young women going out to get water, and said to them, Is the man here?
And he will take your male and female servants, and your young men, and your asses, and put them to his work.
And he said to God, Let not your wrath be burning against me, and I will say this once: let me make a sign with the wool of wool, and let it be wet with the wool, and let all the earth be wet with dew.
And he sent messengers to Abimelech, saying, See, the son of Joab and his brothers are coming to Shechem, shutting up the town against you.
And he had thirty sons, and put his thirty daughters in marriage outside his father's house, and put them in the outside of thirty young women for seven years.
Now David was the son of the town of Beth-lehem, the son of Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man was old in the days of Saul, and the man became old in years.
And the wall of Jericho was falling down on the wall for seven days.
And let us be looking for one another to make love and good works.
Because it is said, Today if you will give ear to his voice, do not make your hearts hard as in the wrath:
I have given him an oath to the Lord; as long as he is living he is to the Lord. Then they gave worship to the Lord.
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the son of Reuel, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of the Lord in Shiloh, had the ephod; and the people did not see that Jonathan was gone.
And the servants of the king said to him, Is not this the king of the land? has they not made sport of one another among him, saying, Saul has taken his thousands and the ten thousands of David.
But no training at the time is to be made of joy, but only for sorrow; but after that which is right will give peace to those who are living by it.
And turning away from him, he said it again: and the people made answer to him the same way.
And when the Lord has done to my lord what he has said about you, and has made you ruler over Israel,
And on the next day the people went out into the field, and said to Abimelech,
Will the people of Keilah give me up into his hands? will Saul come down, as your servant has news of? May the Lord, the God of Israel, say to you, Say to your servant, He will come down.
And Saul put on clothing, put on other clothing, and went with two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. And he said, I am my prayer, O God, by the knowledge of my spirit, and give me him up, whom I will give you a name.
He keeps the feet of his saints, but the evil-doer is shut out in the dark, and no man is able to overcome.
And the Philistines put themselves in position against Israel, and the fighting was stretched out, and Israel was overcome by the Philistines; and they put to death in the field four thousand men.
And all Israel had knowledge, from Dan to Beer-sheba, that Samuel was made a prophet to the Lord.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines to them, and said, What may we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken to Gath; and they took the ark of the God of Israel there.
And they said, See, the feast of the Lord is in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, on the south side of the road which goes up from Beth-el to Shechem and south of a house.
And the Philistines said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of heaven and to the beasts of the field.
And Jonathan said, See, we will go over to the men, and we will make themselves clear to them.
And Saul said, Come near, all the chiefs of the people, and see and see, and see that this sin has been done today.
And after him was Shelomoth, the son of Jephunneh, who was the father of six hundred men of the Philistines with an ox and Israel.
So they sent the ark of God into Ekron, and the ark of God came to Ekron, and said, They have taken the ark of the God of Israel to us, to put us to death and to our people.
For this cause I have made a oath to the house of God, saying, The sin of the house of God is not made clean by offering and offering for ever.
And she said to her servants, Go before me. See, I come after you, but she gave no news to her husband.
For as long as the son of Jesse is living on the earth, you will not be made strong or will be your kingdom. Now send him to me, for he will certainly be put to death.
And David got up early in the morning, and took care of the flock to take care of the flock; and he got up and went, as Jesse had given him orders; and he went in to the road, and the army went out to the position, crying out for war.
For a man takes an oath by the greater and an end of all questions to them for the oath,
And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and he is witness against you this day, that you have not seen anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
But keep in mind the first days, in which you were full of knowledge, and you undergo great numbers of grief:
And this will we do if God is free.
And he said, It is not right for you to keep the sword of the son of Joash, the son of Joash, whom God gave to Midian and to all the army.
All the saints send you their love, even those who are of Caesar's house.
And when they were near the house of Micah, they had knowledge of the voice of the young man, the Levite; and they came to him and said to him, Who took you here? and what have you in this place? and what have you here?
And Elkanah, her husband, will say to her, Why are you weeping, and why do you not take food? and why are you sad? am I not better to you than ten sons?
And he said to David, You are more upright than I am: for you have given me good reward, because I have done evil for you.
And my God will give effect to your wealth in glory in Christ Jesus.
And on that day he gave orders to Baal-perazim, saying, Let the god of Baal come against him, because he had taken down his altar.
And when they saw him, they took thirty men, and they were with him.
And David said to his servants, Put on every man his sword, and let every man put his sword on every man; and David was armed with his sword, and there went up after David about four hundred men, and there were two hundred waiting for them.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of the Philistines for forty years.
And Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to make you king over his people, over Israel: now give ear to the voice of the Lord.
And still he may not give himself to himself, as the high priest goes into the most most holy, every year with the blood of others;
And he overcame them with a great sword, and he went down and went down to the rock of Etam.
So that we may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us and make war for us.
And when she was seated on the ass, she came down by the cover on the mountain; and David and his men came down before her, and she came to them.
And David said to Saul, Why do you give ear to the words of men, saying, See, David is searching against you?
Who need no day for ever, like the high priests, to give offerings, first for his sins, and for the sins of the people: for this he did for all, when he made himself ready.
So that all things were necessary for him to be made like the brothers, so that he might be a holy priest in the things with God, to make payment for the sins of the people.
I said, I have put Saul to be king, because he has turned away from me, and has not kept my words. And Samuel was very sad, and he cried to the Lord all night.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom you sent to the west in the valley of God, see that it is a robe in the ephod: if you will take it, take it; for there is no saviour in this place. And David said, There is no one like that. Give it to me.
Be true to me, brothers and sisters, and keep those who are walking in the way, as you have done.
And when Samuel was offering the burned offering, the Philistines came near to fight against Israel: but the Lord sent thunder on that day on the Philistines and put them in flight before Israel.
And the Lord was seen in Shiloh, for the Lord had given himself to Samuel in Shiloh, by the word of the Lord.
You have put all things under his feet: for in that he has put all things to him, he has given away nothing that is not under him: but now we see not again all things under him.
If you send back the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it away, but give him payment for sin, and then you will be made well: and you will see why his hand is not from you.
And now, what is under your hand? give me five cakes of bread in my hand, or what is there.
The children of the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the town of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the waste land of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and went with the people.
And the woman said to him, See, you have knowledge of what Saul has done, and how he has taken away the spirits of the dead and the readers of men from the land; and why have you put a net for my life, to cause me to die?
The hand of Midian overcame Israel; and because of Midian the children of Israel made themselves the holes in the mountains, and the holes and the strong places.
But there will be a great fear of what is right, and a burning fire will be cut off from the attackers.
But now, my lord, the life of the Lord, and the life of your soul, who has kept you from coming to blood, and has given your hand to you, and now let your haters be as the sinner, and all those who make evil to my lord.
And he went down and said to the woman who had pleasure in his eyes.
And the spirit of the Lord came on the son of Shammah, and he took the lion in flight, cutting a young goat in pieces, having nothing at all in his hand; and he did not say this to his father and his mother.
But she did not go up, for she said to her husband, I will be waiting till the child is taken, and I will send him before the Lord, and there will be for ever.
See, I put the wool of wool in the grain-floor: if the dew is on the wool, or on all the earth, I have knowledge that you will keep Israel by my hand, as you have said.
And the Philistines went up and put up their tents in Judah, and put themselves in a meeting place.
And you have no memory of the comfort which has been given to you for children, my son: do not take care of the training of the Lord, or be troubled when you are angry.
Then the king sent for the priest the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, and they came to the king.
But if you do not give ear to the voice of the Lord, and if you are turned against the orders of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you, as against your fathers.
And make prayer for us, that we are attempting to make ourselves a good heart in all things, in all things which are right.
And Saul sent the men to David, saying, Take him up in the bed to me, and put him to death.
And Saul took him three thousand men of Israel, with Saul in Michmash, in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand of Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the rest of the people sent every man to his tent.
And Gad the prophet said to David, Do not have faith in the grip: go and get you into the land of Judah. Then David went away and came into the woods of Haran.
And from that day he made it a law and a law for Israel to this day.
Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the east came together, and went over and put up their tents in the valley of Jezreel.
So let us go to the seat of grace, so that we may have mercy on us, and have grace in the time of need.
By the way which he made to us, a new and living way, through the veil which is to say,
And they put to death the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand, all strong and strong men, and they were not able to get away.
And he made prayer to the Lord and said, O Lord, let the man of God come again to us, and give us teaching what we may do to the child who is to be born.
Now the children of Benjamin had news that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Say to us, How has this evil done?
Now his fathers did not see that the thing was done by the Lord, and that he made search for the Philistines, for at that time the Philistines had rule over Israel.
And it came to pass at that time, when Abiathar, the son of Barachel, the son of Barachel, went in flight to David, to get the ephod with him,
And another went straight to Beth-horon; and another group went on the way of the side of Aroer, toward the waste land.
And he said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here I am.
And the fig-tree said to them, Have I been quiet from my sweet profit, and my good increase, so that I have gone wandering on the trees?
And crying out to the children of Dan, they turned round their faces and said to Micah, What is it to you that you have been called together?
For he did not give orders to the angels of the world, about which we were talking.
And what will I say more? For the time will come to me, if I make a decision against you, if I make a decision against you, O Lemuel, the son of Barachel, the son of Barachel, the son of Barachel, the son of Samuel, and the prophet.
And they took away the prisoners who were in it, great and small: they had no death, but had taken them away and went on their way.
And the tents of Sisera went in flight to the tent of Ishvi, the land of Eber, the Kenites, for peace between Jabin, king of Hazor, and the land of Eber the Kenites.
For it was given to him that he had given up a true agreement.
And David said, O Lord, the God of Israel, let your servant see that Saul is attempting to go to Keilah in the land of Keilah for destruction.
From the heavens the stars were fighting, and from their divisions they made war with Sisera.
And he said, Why does my lord go after his servant? what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And Saul was angry with Jonathan, and said to him, You son of a twisted, uncontrolled woman: do I not see that you have taken the son of Jesse to your shame and to the shame of your mother's shame?
And he said to them, The Lord is witness against you, and his oil is witness this day, and you have not seen anything in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
And when he had made an end of talking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was put to the heart of David, and Jonathan was his love for his soul.
And when he had news of the dream and its sense, he gave worship to himself. And he went back to the tents of Israel and said, Up! for the Lord has given you the tents of Midian.
And Israel went up from Egypt, and went through the waste land to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
For the priesthood is changed, and there is no division in the law.
And being seen in the form of men, he made himself low, being guided by the death of the cross.
And the upright by faith will have life; and if he comes back, my soul has no pleasure in him.
Which was a sign for the present time, in which the offerings and offerings which were offered were not able to make clear the fear of the man,
And Abraham, by faith, gave birth to Isaac; and he who had the word of the undertaking was given to his only son,
Now she had been waiting for herself in the room, and she said to him, The Philistines are on you, O Lemuel, and he has broken the cords, like a bit of flax in which it is broken, and his strength was not seen.
teaching about baptism and putting on some hands, and from the dead and eternal judge.
And when he saw her, he tore his robes and said, Ah, my daughter! you have taken me very low, and you are one of those who have trouble on me: for I have given my mouth to the Lord, and I am not able to go back.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines got up and went with David to see David, David quickly went in flight against the Philistines.
And Samuel said to him all the way, and put nothing from him. And he said, It is the Lord; let him do what seems good to him.
And Micah said to him, Go with me, and be to me for a father and a priest, and I will give you ten shekels of silver for the days, and for your clothing and your food. And the Levites will go.
And the Kenites, the Kenites, had been cut off from the Kenites, from the children of Hobab, the father-in-law of Moses, and had put up his tents as far as the trees of the valley of the valley, which is by Kedesh.
And he went after the armed war-carriages and the army to the chief of the nations, and all the people of war were completely destroyed.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And they went out into the field, taking their vine-gardens and crushing them, and they had a feast; and they went into the house of their god, and they had food and drink and cursed.
And Samuel sent to the Lord, and the Lord gave a blessing and rain on that day; and all the people were in fear of the Lord and Samuel.
And she said, No, my lord, I am a woman of sorrow: I have no drink of wine or strong drink, but I have put my soul before the Lord.
And when the man got up to get away, he and his wife and his servant, his father, his father, said to him, See, the day is coming to evening, but the day is near. See, the day has come to an end; be still here, and let your heart be full of joy; and tomorrow go on your way, and go on your way.
And the man, the Levite, the husband of the woman who had been put to death, said, To the town of Gibeah, which is to come to Benjamin, I and my wife have come to the night.
But today you are turning away from your God, who gives you salvation from all your troubles and from all your troubles: you have said to him, No, but you are to make a king over us. So give yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your families.
For all things are looking for what is Jesus Christ's.
Give to all your rulers, and to all the saints: for they are from Italy.
And when they were put to shame till they were put to shame, he did not open the doors of the room: and they took the key of the key and gave them open; and, behold, their master was dead on the earth.
And controlling his left hand, he took the sword from his right leg and put it in his body.
And the Hebrews went across the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul was still in Gilgal, and all the people were shaking with fear after him.
And again the third time, the name of the Lord came to him, and he got up and came to him, and said, Here am I; for you have been my servant, and she saw that the Lord was calling the boy.
And on the seventh day they said to the wife of Jonathan, the wife of the wife, Give him the account of the sense of the sense. But if you do not do it, then we will be burned with fire and your father's house: have you sent us to the feast, to take away our goods?
But the king of the children of Ammon did not give attention to the words of Japhlet which he sent him.
And Jonathan said to David, Whatever you say I will do for you.
And David said, Truly I have kept all that this man has in the waste land, so that nothing was given to him, and he has given me evil for good.
And almost all things are made clean with blood, by the law; and without a man's blood there is no forgiveness.
And the third time they came up against Benjamin, as they had done the first and second.
So they went on and went away, and the sun went down on them at Gibeah, which is the heritage of Benjamin.
And when he had gone away, his servants came and saw that the doors of the room were shut, saying, Truly, he has put his feet in the room.
And he will take the tenth part of your grain, and the fruit of your vine-gardens, and his servants and his servants.
And he will take your servants and your women-servants, and your servants and your asses, and take care of them.
And Samuel said to the cooked cook, Give the heritage which I gave you, which I said to you, Give it to you.
And the Spirit of the Lord will come on you, and you will have news with them, and you will be turned into another man.
In those days there was no king in Israel, that there was a Levite, a man living in the hill-country of Ephraim, and took a wife, a woman of the town of Judah, a wife of Judah.
And because it is not holy, ( for those who are without oath are priests),
And the old man lifted up his eyes and saw the man seated with his band in the public square, and said to him, Where have you come from? and where are you going?
And the people sent to Shiloh, and there they took the ark of the agreement of the Lord of armies, between the winged ones, and the ark of God, with the ark of the agreement of God, the chief of the agreement with Phinehas.
And he had great instruments of brass on his feet, and a band of brass between his arms.
Have I then come to get directions from God? be it far from me: let not the king take care of his servant or to all my father's house: for your servant had knowledge of all this, less or less.
And when Sisera came together, all his war-carriages, and all the people who were with him, and all the people who were with him, came to the river of Kishon.
Whose end is destruction, whose god the stomach and glory of their shame is in their shame.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said to him, Happy are you by the Lord: I have done the orders of the Lord.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he who said, Will Saul rule over us? take the men, and we will put them to death.
Make my joy complete, so that you may be of one mind, having the same love, being of one mind, made clear to yourself.
And she was bitter in soul, and made prayer to the Lord and was crying bitterly.
And he said to them, Out of the fruit came forth food, and out of the strong strength came sweet; and they were not able for three days to explain the sense.
The mountains were moved before the Lord, the God of Sinai, from before the Lord, the God of Israel.
And Samuel said to all the people, Have you seen him whom the Lord has fixed, for there is no one like him among all the people? And all the people said, Let the king be living.
For where the agreement, the death of the agreement, is necessary,
And the man said to him, Now, when your words are true, what will be the way of life and of the fruit?
That I might have knowledge of him, and the power of his life, and the blessing of his sorrows, which he has made clear to his death;
For God is not wrong, that he may keep the memory of your work, and the love which you have made clear in his name, you who have been given to the saints.
And Abimelech was fighting against the town all that day; and he took the town and put to death the people who were in it, crushing the town and planting it with salt.
For who has seen his hater, will let him go well? but the Lord will reward you for this good thing, for what you have done to me today.
But the king of the children of Ammon did not give ear to the words of laughing which he sent him.
Even as for me, be it from me that I may give sin to the Lord in prayer to prayer for you, and I will give you the good and the right way.
And a man of Benjamin went out from among the divisions, and came to Shiloh on that day, and his robes were broken, and earth was on his head.
And the Lord takes judges, and they keep them safe from the hands of those who are violent.
To him was the father of the king of Judah, named by the king's rule, for ten years.
And he went to him, the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and overcame Israel; and they took the town of palm-trees.
Then he said, See, I have come to do your pleasure; he took away the first, so that he might make the second.
Men, my brothers, I do not take care of myself as though I have taken hold of myself, but one thing I do. Keep the things which are in the past, and make straight to the things which are before,
For he who has come into his rest has rest from his works, as God did from his works.
All of you have made designs against me, and there is no one to say that my son has made a agreement with the son of Jesse; and there is no one of you who has pity on me, or has said to me that my son has put up my servant against me, as at this day.
Then Samuel gave all the words of the Lord to the people who had a desire for a king.
Now I make a request to you, brothers, with my word of comfort; for truly I have been writing to you a short letter.
And on the third day you will come down, and come to the place where you were kept secret in the day of the work; and you will have rest in the town of Ephraim.
For all things are searching for themselves, not the things of Christ Jesus.
And the king said to her, Have no fear. What do you see? And the woman said to Saul, I see a god coming up from the earth.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he said, See, this nation has broken my agreement which I had made with their fathers, and had given ear to my voice.
And when he had made an end of talking, he put away his face from his hand, and the name of the place was called Ramah.
And Elon, the son of Heth, died, and was put to rest in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
And the woman came and said to her husband, A man of God came to me, and his form was like the voice of a prophet of God, and I had no request for him where he was, and he gave me no account of his name.
If he is able to make war with me and put me to death, then we will be your servants; but if I have overcome him and put him to death, then you will be our servants and be your servants.
And let us go with a true heart of faith, having our hearts dropped from an evil heart, and having our body washed with clean water;
And the rod of his spear was like a weaver's rod, and the head of his spear was six hundred shekels of iron; and his arms went before him.
And when they saw him, they took thirty men with him.
God is my witness, that I may long for you all in Christ Jesus.
And see the men of the town in the night in the night where I was, hoping to put me to death, and put my wife in a great wrath, so that she was dead.
And when David came back from the death of the Philistines, the women came out of all the towns of Israel, singing and dancing, to see King Saul with timbrels and with joy and instruments of music.
And all the strong men got up and went all night, taking the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shemesh; and they came to Jabez and burned them there.
And it came to pass on a day, when Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who had his arms, Come, let us go over to the Philistines, and let us go over to the Philistines; but he did not give orders to his father.
And he said to Jether his oldest son, Go up and put them to death. But the boy did not put his sword in his hand, because he was still a child.
And he said, Give ear now, son of Ahitub. And he said, Here I am, my lord.
Then Abiathar sent word to David that Saul had put to death the priests of the Lord.
Go and cry to the gods which you have taken; let them keep you safe in the time of your trouble.
From heaven was the fight, and the stars from their tents made war with Sisera.
And from the day when the ark was in Kiriath-jearim, the days were increased, and all the children of Israel were crying in grief for the Lord.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And the men of Israel went back, and the men of Benjamin were surprised: for they saw that evil was coming on them.
And the man went to the land of the Hittites, building a town, naming it Luz, which is the name of it to this day.
Let the flames of the fire be cut off, and let the sword be cut off from the edge of the sword, and strong men are full of fighting, turning to flight against the nations.
But Midian and Amalek, and all the people of the east were wandering in the valley like a swarm of locusts; and their camels were as great as the sand on the sea.
For the law has a shade of the good things to come, not even the image of the things, or the offering of the first year by year, which they give to be made ready for ever.
And Samuel said to Saul, You have done a foolish thing: you have not kept the orders of the Lord your God which he gave you orders; for then the Lord would have put your kingdom over Israel for ever.
And Michal let David down through a window, and he went in flight and got away.
For on the seventh day he said, On the seventh day, and on the seventh day God has rest from all his works;
But now it is clear that the fate of the things which are taken away is made clear, so that the things which are not moved may be stopped.
And she said, The Philistines are on you, the Philistines. And he got up from his sleep and said, I go out as a time in time past, and I am overcome with fear; and he has not seen that the Lord has turned away from him.
And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Let him go and see in the great strength of his strength, and we will be able to overcome him, so that we may put him in trouble, and we will give you eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And the chiefs of the Philistines put up to her seven hundred sticks, which were not wasted, and she put him in chains with them.
And Saul had pity on the people, on the best of the flock, and on the best of the flock, and on the best sheep, and on the he-lambs, and on the lambs, and on all the good things, and had no pleasure in them; and all the work was turned to shame and wasted.
And when the angels came in, they saw the images in the bed, with the head of goats' hair at its head.
And they sent representatives to the people of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have taken back the ark of the Lord again; come down and get it up to you.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on the rod, and he blew the horn, and the House of the Rechabites came together after him.
Being better than the angels is greater than the angels, and his heritage is greater than they.
And Eber, the wife of Eber, took a peg in her hand, and took a hammer in her hand, and went to his houses with him, and put him in a hole in his houses; for he was in a deep sleep, and he was overcome with grief.
And Micaiah said to him, Where have you come from? And he said to him, I am a Levite, the son of Beth-lehem, looking for a living-place.
So that day, when Jabin, king of Canaan, was before the children of Israel,
And you will go down before me to Gilgal: see, I come down to you to make burned offerings and peace-offerings; seven days till I come to you, and I will let you see what you are to do.
And he said to them, From the fruit of the strong food came out sweet food; but they were unable to make clear the story for three days.
But there was not the first of the first, without blood.
And they saw an Egyptian in the field, and took him to David, and gave him bread, and gave him food, and gave him water to drink.
Zebulun is a people who put their soul to death, and Naphtali on high places.
And he said to him, Far be it from it, and you will not be put to death. See, my father is not a great or small, but that he may give it to me. Why would my father take this thing from me? It is not so.
And Jonathan said to the young man who gave birth to his goods, Come, let us go over to the tents of these men, so that the Lord will do for us, because it is good for the Lord to give salvation to us, or to a few.
And the priests of Dagon, and all who came to the house of Dagon, did not go on the doorstep of Dagon in Ashdod till this day.
And the angel of the Lord came to them no more; and they saw that it was an angel of the Lord.
And Jonathan said to David, May the Lord, the God of Israel, be a witness to you, if I have given orders to my father about this time, or the third day, if there is good for David, will I not send it to you and make it clear to you?
These all, having given witness to them by faith, did not take the word of God.
And Saul said to David, See, my older daughter Michal, I will give her to you as wife: only be strong for me, and fight against the Lord. For Saul said, Let not my hands be on him, but let the Philistines be on him.
And Saul saw David from that day and forward.
And Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Come with me into my country, and fight against the Canaanite, so that I may go with you in your land. And Simeon went with him.
Then the Philistines sent for the priests and the wonder-workers, saying, What may we do with the ark of the Lord? let us see how we are to send it to its place.
So that my chains are made clear in Christ, in all the open space, and in all other places;
And when he had gone out, his servants came, and they saw that the doors of the room were shut up, and they said, Truly he is put to death in the room.
And Saul put on David's robes, and put a head-dress of brass on his head, and put a robe on him.
For this cause, says the Lord, the God of Israel, if I say that your house and the house of your father may go before me for ever, says the Lord, far away from me, I will give glory to those who give me honour, but those who make sport of me I will make sport of myself.
And he said to her, Get up, and let us go; but no one answer. And he took her on the ass, and the man got up and went to his place.
Now take your place now, so that I may make a request to you before the Lord for all the good acts of the Lord which he did to you and to your fathers.
And he said, It is not right for you to give up the sword of the son of Joash, the son of Joash: for God has given orders to Midian and all the army.
And the king said, Make search for the man whose son is.
For he had made him a long time of trouble from the foundation of the world; but now, at the full end of the world, he has been made clear by his offering.
And you will not only be able to make me see the mercy of the Lord, so that I may not be put to death.
And after the third time, the name of the Lord came to him, and he got up and came to him, and said, Here I am, for you have been named me; and when you give birth, the Lord will send his cry to the child.
And Abishai said to David, God has given your enemy into your hands this day: then, let me put him to the earth with the spear for one time, and I will not put a sword on him.
And they went away to test Israel, to see if they would keep the orders which the Lord gave their fathers through Moses.
And on that day they overcame the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people were very tired.
And Saul saw that the Lord was with David; and Saul, Saul's daughter, had love for him.
Then Samuel sent out to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain on that day: and all the people feared the Lord and Samuel.
And they came together to Mizpah, pulling water, draining it out before the Lord, and went without food on that day, and said there, We have done evil against the Lord. And the children of Israel were judging in Mizpah.
And he said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here I am.
And they put up their tents against them, cutting off the increase of the earth, till you come to Gaza; and there is no food in Israel or sheep or ox or ass.
Are you better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever make war against Israel, or did he make war against them?
So then, my brothers, my love and my desire for, be my joy and a crown, so that you may be loved in the Lord, dearly loved.
But as to which of the angels said he ever, Sit at my right hand till I put your feet under your feet?
And he went back to Ramah; for there was his house, and there he was judged Israel; and there he made an altar to the Lord.
For this cause I am hoping to send, when I see the things about me,
And Samuel, hearing all the words of the people, gave them an account of the Lord.
And the king said, You and your father's house are to be put to death.
Let the love of the brothers be in you.
But I have hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you quickly, so that I may be glad when I see your things.
For where there is no agreement, there is to be the death of him who made it.
So that the powers of heaven may be made clean with these things; but the things which are in heaven are better than these.
But early in the morning, when the wife of Nabal was laughing in his wine, his wife gave orders to him, and his heart was dead inside him, and he became like a stone.
And Jonathan said, See, we will go over to these men, and we will be seen by them.
And David and his men went up and made a attack on the people of Geshur and the captains of the Amalekites, for they had been living in the land for a long time in the direction of Shur and the land of Egypt.
And Saul, seeing David's voice, said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
And he said to Jether his oldest son, Get up and put them to death; but he did not take his sword, for he was overcome with fear, but only a child.
Now the word of Samuel came to all Israel; and Israel went out against the Philistines to fight, and they put up their tents by their help; and the Philistines put up their tents at Aphek.
This is what the Lord of armies has said: I have seen what Amalek did to Israel, how he took himself against him in the way when he came up out of Egypt.
And I took my wife, cutting her in pieces, and sent her through all the land of Israel, for they had done evil and foolish things in Israel.
And David came in to the two hundred men who were tired to go after David; and they went out to see David, and they went out to see David and to the people who were with him; and David got near the people and made requests for them.
And the woman had a fat ox in the house; and she went quickly and put it to death and took some meal and made cakes of unleavened bread.
You have not been against the blood of blood, but against sin.
But I have faith in the Lord, that I, even I, will come.
Did I take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to give offerings on my altar, to make perfume, and to put on an ephod before me? and I gave to the house of your father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel.
Do not take away the false things which will not profit you, or give you salvation, because they are false.
And Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, went in flight to David to Keilah; and he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And again, I will put my hope in him, and again I and my children, whom God has given me.
And they went back to the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and said to him,
And the men came to the town of Saul, and said these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice and were weeping.
Now the children of Gilead took the side of the Jordan before the children of Ephraim; and when the children of Ephraim had said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said to him, Are you the children of Ephraim? If he said, No;
And Judah went against the Canaanites who were living in Hebron, and the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba, and Ahiman and Ahiman and Talmai.
In these last days he has given us an account of the Son, whom he had given over all things, through whom he made the world.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines and overcame them, as far as Beth-hoglah.
Then you will come to the mountain of God, where the army of the Philistines is, and when you come to the town, you have come to a band of prophets coming down from the high place and on the corded instruments and pipe and instruments of music and corded instruments;
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel said to the Lord, Who will go up against us first against the Canaanites, to make war against them?
And she was weeping before him the seven days of their feast; and on the seventh day he gave her knowledge, and gave the sense to her people.
And when he had numbered them, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give me bread of bread to the people who go after me: for they are feeble and I go after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And at the end of the year, when she went up to the house of the Lord, she made her bitter: and she was crying and did not take food.
And turning away from him, he said the same thing: and the people made answer to him after the first way.
Now when he had given an end to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan was dear to him as his soul.
And the Philistines sent for the priests and the readers of arts, saying, What may we do with the ark of the Lord? how we are to send it back to its place? And they said,
And you will send the name of Jesse to the offering, and I will make clear to you what you are to do, and put oil on him whom I will give you.
And he went away from them under the king of Moab, and they were with him all the days of David.
And he put his life in his hand, and overcame the Philistines, and the Lord made a great salvation for all Israel; and you saw it and be glad, and why do you sin against the evil-doer, to put David to death?
The men of Gibeah came up against me, circling the house by night, purposing to put me to death; and they put shame on my wife, and she was dead.
And on the second day the people got up early and made an altar there and burned offerings and peace-offerings.
For this reason he was responsible for all things to be made like his brothers, so that he might be a man of mercy and a holy priest, to make an account of the sins of the people.
For it is hard for those who were once full of light, and have had the idea of the offering of heaven, and they were given in the Holy Spirit.
But strong food is for the upright: for those who are in the way have knowledge of good and evil.
And this is what you are to do: every male and woman who has sex with man will be put to death.
For this reason the old men gave witness to them, saying,
And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog, that you come to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
So they went back and went away, putting the little and oxen and the carriage before them.
In those days there was no king in Israel; there was a Levite living in the hill-country of Ephraim, who took a woman from Beth-lehem to Judah.
Then all the evil men and the evil men who came with David said, Because they came not with us, we will not give them anything of the goods which we have got well; but let every man take his wife and his children, and be safe with them and go on his way.
And Saul said to Jonathan, Give me what you have done. And Jonathan said to him, I have done only a little honey with the rod which was in my hand, and I am to be put to death.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took up the ark of the Lord, and took it into the house of Abinadab, on the mountain, and made holy Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the Lord.
And David went out to do whatever Saul had sent him, and he took care of himself; and Saul put him over the armed men, and he was pleased with all the people, and specially in the eyes of Saul's servants.
Then Samuel took a bottle of oil, and put it over his head, and gave him a kiss, and said, Has not the Lord made you ruler over his heritage?
And the children of Benjamin saw that they had been put to death, and the men of Israel gave their place to Benjamin; for they had faith in the secret places which they had put against Gibeah.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead had news of it, what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And the spirit of the Lord came on Saul, and he was seated in his house with a spear in his hand; and David was with his hand.
And they took two of the chiefs of Midian for Oreb and for Zeeb; and they put to death at the rock of Oreb and in like Zeeb; and they went after Midian, driving the heads of Oreb and Zeeb on the other side of the Jordan.
Then he sent out to the young man his young men, and said to him, Take your sword and put me to death, that they may not say of me, A women put him to death; and his young man put him to death, and he was dead.
So one of them came up, and he was as dead as dead, and great as the stars of heaven, and as the sand by the sea.
For you have not been against the blood of blood, but against sin.
And Caleb said, Whoever attacks Kiriath-sepher and takes it, I will give him my daughter Achsah as a wife.
And when he had given an offering to him, he went after his friends with him.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to themselves, We are turned back to you now, so that you may go with us and fight against the children of Ammon; and you will be our head over all the people of Gilead.
These are the vessels of gold which the Philistines went back to the Lord for a sin-offering: one for Gaza, and Ashkelon, one, and Gath, one; and Ekron, one;
And no man will give ear to you in this way: but it will be equal to him who went down to war and to the rest of the house, and they will be equally parted.
For the law is to be changed, so that the law may be changed by the law.
I will put three arrows on his side, and I will send out three arrows.
So they went back to the night in the town of Gibeah; and he went in and took his seat in the open place of the town; and no one got him into his house to go through the night.
And Saul said to David, You are not able to go to the Philistines to fight with him, for you are a young man, and he is a man of war from his earliest years.
And he sent representatives through all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters, as far as Beth-Arabah, even the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim came together, and took the water as far as the Jordan.
Then David said to Abiathar, I had knowledge in that day that the Edomites were there, and that he would give news to Saul; and I am responsible for all your father's house.
And the Lord has done to him as he said by me: for the Lord has put the kingdom out of your hand and gave it to your neighbour, to David.
And David overcame the Philistines, with a sling and a stone, and overcame the Philistines; and David had no sword in his hand.
And the Spirit of God came on Saul when he heard these words, and his wrath was burning.
And he said, What have you done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were wandering from me, and that you did not come inside the time when the Philistines came together at Michmash;
And Abigail went quickly and went on his way on an ass, and five of her daughters who went after her; and she went after the men of David and became his wife.
And they will be put to shame till they are put to shame, and they are not opening the doors of the house; and they take the key of the key, and see, their master has gone to the earth.
And I pray that your love may be increased more and more in knowledge and in all judging;
And one of the people, answering, said, Your father gave orders to the people, saying, Cursed is the man who takes food today today. And the people were feeble.
And he went back from the fight before the sun.
And her wise women said to her, Yes, she says,
For by one offering he has made complete all the holy things which are holy.
And for twenty years and for three years he was put to death; and he went to death and was put to death in the earth.
I have sent him so much more, so that when you see him again, you may be glad, and that I may be the less sad.
But she said, No, my lord, for I am a woman full of grief, but I have no drink of wine or of strong drink; but I have given my soul before the Lord.
For he who makes holy and those who are made holy are all of one: for he is not put to shame to say to them,
And he was true to him who gave him his name, and Moses was true in all his house.
And these all, having given witness to them by their faith, did not give the word to them.
And the Amorites sent the children of Dan into the hill-country, for they would not let them go down into the valley.
So the young men went on their way, and came and gave him word of all these words.
And the responsible men said, What are we to do with the rest of the rest? for all the women of Benjamin are dead.
And when Saul saw the band of the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was troubled.
And the trees said to the fig-tree, Come, rule over us.
And they took the man whom he had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to the town of Laish, to a people quiet and safe, and put them to death with the sword; and they burned the town with fire.
Now, my lord, as the Lord is living, and as your soul is living, the Lord has kept you from coming to take blood, and to take away the blood with your hands, now let your haters and those who are evil to my lord be as the sinner.
And he sent representatives to all Manasseh, and it was named after him; and he sent representatives to Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they came up to see them.
And you will see an enemy in my house, in all the wealth which God will give Israel; and there will be no old man in your house for ever.
And he said, This will be the way of the king who will rule over you: he will take your sons and send them to his war-carriages and his horsemen, and they will go running before his war-carriages.
And the people came to the tent-circle, and the responsible men of Israel said, Why has the Lord put us to death today before the Philistines? let us take the ark of the agreement of the Lord from Shiloh to us, so that it may come among us and be safe from our haters.
For the law, having a shade of the good things, is not able to make the image of it, which is not able to make it, by the same offerings which are to be offered every year, may be able to give effect to those who come near.
Now the children of Benjamin had news that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Say to us, What is this evil?
Why do you take up the hands and the feeble knees?
And when she saw that he had given news to her all his heart, she sent for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up quickly, for he has given me all his heart. Then the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her and took the money in their hands.
See, an old man came from his work out of the field at evening: now he was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he was living in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjamin.
And the wagon came into the field of Joshua the Gittite, and there there was a great stone there; and they took the wood of the cart, and gave up the young cows for a burned offering to the Lord.
Up! get up, O stretching out, get up, get up, and make a song: get up and take away your prisoners, O son of Abinadab.
And Saul saw David from that day and forward.
So David overcame the Philistines with the bow and the stone; and he overcame the Philistines and put him to death, but there was no sword in David's hand.
And the Amorites sent the children of Dan into the hill-country, for they would not let them go down into the valley.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other was Penuel; and Penuel had no children.
Do they not see? they have taken their goods, a female sheep, for every head, and for every head, and for the work of Sisera, and for the work of work, and for the work of needlework, a band of needlework, for the neck of the goods.
And the children of Israel were living in the land of Canaan, the Hittite and the Amorite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite;
And he said, This is nothing more than the sword of the son of Joash, the son of Joash, who has given Midian into his hands, with all the army.
But as for us, dear friends, we are attempting to give you good news and things that go with salvation, even though we are talking as this.
For if a man sees his hater, will he let him go well? why do you give good reward to you for what you have done to me this day?
Take care of the dogs, take care of the evil workers, keep watch over the loss.
Let your life be without love of money, for he has said, I will not go away from you, and I will not go from you.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? and to whom will he go up from us?
And the children of Judah were fighting against Jerusalem and took it and put it to death by the mouth of the sword, and they sent the town into fire.
And Israel sent representatives to Sihon, king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and said to him, Let us go through your land to my place.
And the sons of Saul: Jonathan and Ishvi and Malchi-shua, the names of his two daughters: the name of the first was Michal, and the younger Michal.
And Micah made holy the Levites, and the young man became his priest and was in the house of Micah.
And David went in flight against the Philistines and took his sword and put it out of its place, and put him to death, cutting off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their men were dead, they went in flight.
And Eber, the wife of Heber, took a hammer in her hand, and took a hammer in her hand, and went to him secretly, and put the nails in his houses and put it on the earth: for he was sleeping and tired.
And Jonathan said to Saul, Let me go to Beth-lehem.
And he put out his left hand and took the sword from off his right leg and put it into his stomach.
And representatives came to all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to the town of Midian, and take the waters before them, and let the waters go down to the Jordan before them; and let every man of Ephraim be named, and take the waters of the Jordan as far as the Jordan.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, went to the Lord, and said, O Lord God, keep me in mind and make my prayer to you, O God, that I may be responsible for the destruction of the Philistines for my two eyes.
And the men who were with him came to the outside of the tent-circle in the middle of the middle of the camp; and they had only a new watch, and they sounded the horns and the vessels which were in their hands were broken.
And he said to Jether his oldest son, Get up, and put them to death. But the young man did not get his sword, for he was overcome with fear because he was a child.
He gives up the poor from the dust, lifting up the poor from the waste places, to put among the rulers, and to give them a seat of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he has put the earth on them.
For such are he of whom these things are said in another tribe, among whom no man gave attention to the altar,
And when the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, and those who were on the other side of the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel had gone away, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they let the towns be turned away, and the Philistines came in flight.
Your servants and your women-servants, and your master's young men and your asses he will take away, and put them to his work.
And David went in flight from the town of Ramah, and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is my sin? what is my sin, and what is my sin before your father?
And Saul was very angry, and he was angry with him, and said, These ten thousands have they given to David; but to me they have a thousand, and what more will he have but the kingdom?
And when the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley, and those who were on the other side of the Jordan, saw that the children of Israel had gone away, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they let the towns be turned away, and the Philistines came and were living in them.
But he, because he has life for ever, has his priests not changed.
For the law which has a shade of good things, and not the image of the things which are offered year by year, may not be able to make an end of it.
And he said to them, Out of the fruit came out bread, and out of the strong strength came forth sweet; and in three days they were able to make clear the sense.
And he came to the outskirts of the field, which was in his way; and there was a hole in which Saul went and had a safe place; and David and his men put themselves in the hole in the hole.
And the Philistines came forward and came near against David, and his arms before him.
And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, was a hundred and ten years old.
For they were not able to keep the orders which was given to them: and if it was so much as a beast on the mountain, it is to be stoned or broken by the arrow.
But there was a strong tower in the town, and all the men and women and all the town went away, shutting it to them and went up to the top of the tower.
But you have been turned away from me, and have gone to other gods, and I will not be your saviour.
For all of you have made evil designs against me, and no one puts an agreement between my son and the son of Jesse: and none of you has had pity on me or made clear to me that my son has put my servant in secret for me, as has been done this day.
And at the end of ten days the Lord had been wounded by the Lord, and he was dead.
And he made prayer to the Lord and said, O my Lord, let the man of God which you send come again to us and give us teaching what we may do to the child who is to be born.
But now the kingdom of your kingdom will not be kept: for the Lord has given him a man after his heart, and the Lord has made him ruler over his people, because you have not kept what the Lord has given you.
And David said, You are not to do so, my brothers, with what the Lord has given us, and he will keep us safe and give the army who is coming against us into our hands.
And on the eighth day there was a division of the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, by the law;
So do not the priests of Dagon, or any who go into the house of Dagon, crushing the doorstep of Dagon in Ashdod to this day.
And the children of Israel were living among the Canaanites: the Hittite and the Amorite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite;
And Abigail came to the widow of Nabal; and he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king, and the heart of the sinner was glad: for he was very drunk, and she gave him no more than the morning.
And the people said to Samuel, Who is he who said, Will Saul be king over us? take these men, and we will put them to death.
And Deborah, the wife of Rebekah, the wife of a false god, was judging Israel at that time.
Now this is what was said in order to do these things, to the first meeting of the Tent of meeting, to keep the regular burned offering.
And the children of Israel put an attack on the town round the town.
And give birth to Jesse to the offering, and I will make clear to you what you are to do; and on my name you will put oil on me.
And on the next day the spirit of the spirit of God came rushing on Saul, and he was talking in the middle of the house: and David was playing the harp with his hand on that day, and the spear was in Saul's hand.
For if the blood of he-goats and oxen and the dust of a cow make them unclean, make holy to the clean of the flesh:
And let them be free by the fear of death, for all their days are under their hands.
For tomorrow I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you will put oil on him to be ruler over my people Israel: he will keep my people from the hands of the Philistines: for I have seen my people, because their cry has come to me.
And when he had gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that the doors of the prison were shut, they said, Truly he has put his feet in his summer rooms.
And it was said to Saul, See, David is in the town of Ramah.
Now I have news that you are cutting off wool: but while your keepers were with us, we did not make them cruel, and there was no one missing, and all the days they were in Carmel.
And the child Samuel became greater and more in grace with the Lord and with men.
And when Saul had said to the priest, The noise which was in the tents of the Philistines, going on and becoming great, he said to the priest, Take away your hand.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a great man, and there was no better among the children of Israel than he was, and greater than all the people.
And Saul sent representatives to take David; and they saw a band of prophets, and Samuel was the ruler over them, and the Spirit of God came on the servants of Saul, and they were prophets.
And she said, I will certainly go with you; but the journey you take away will not be for your honour: for the Lord will give the price of Sisera into a woman's hand. And she got up and went with her way to Kedesh.
He said to Zebah and Zalmunna, What sort of men were they to whom you put to death at Tabor? And they said, As you are, so were they; every one was like the children of a king.
For they and their cattle have come up with their tents; they have come in like the number of locusts, and there is no number of them, and they come into the land to destroy it.
And I make request to you, O worker, give help to these women, for they have been working with me in the good news, and the rest of my workers, whose names are in the book of life.
And being made complete, he became the place of eternal salvation to all those who keep him.
And I will go out and take place by my father in the field where you are, and I will give words to my father; and what I see I will say to you.
And he took the responsible men of the town, and the thorns and the thorns in the waste land, crushing the men of Succoth with them.
Do not go away till I come to you, and take my offering and put it before you. And he said, I will be waiting till you come back.
And he came to the sheep-, where there was a hole; and Saul went in to take care of himself. And David and his men were living in the middle of the hole.
And the rest of the priests had a number of priests, because of the death of their death.
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man? who is like you in Israel? why have you not kept watch over your lord the king? for one of the people came to destruction against the king your lord.
So the people sent to Shiloh, to take the ark of the agreement of the Lord of armies, which is between the winged ones, and the two sons of the agreement, the chief of the Levites, and the ark of Phinehas.
And he said, Let your words come true; what is the way of the child, and what is the outcome?
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom you have put down in the valley of God, see that it is veiled in a robe after the ephod, if it is taken to you, take it; for there is no other saviour in this. And David said, There is no one like it.
But Abigail, the wife of Ishmael, was given to his friend, who was his friend.
And Samuel was causing the burned offering to go up, and the Philistines came to war against Israel; and the Lord had thunder with a loud noise on that day on the Philistines and troubled them, and they were overcome before Israel.
And Saul said to his servants who took care of him, Give ear, O children of Benjamin; let the son of Jesse give you fields and vine-gardens, and let him make you captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
And Saul said to his brother, He said to us for certain that the asses were found, but of the rule of the kingdom of Samuel, he gave orders to him.
And the men who had not been put to death had been put to death, and the cry of the town went up into heaven.
And David went from there to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and mother go with you till I see what God will do for me.
And he said to the young man who took him by the hand, Let me see the stone which is on the house, so that I may be waiting on them.
And he took the people and put them in three bands, and put their place in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the town, he got up against them and overcame them.
For this reason you will make the images of your grain and the images of your disgusting things which waste the land; and you will give glory to the God of Israel, if he will make his hand clear to you and your gods and your land.
But if I am put out on the offerings and in your faith, I have joy and joy with you all;
And the Lord said to him, The people who are with you are too many for me to give orders to Midian, and Israel will say, My hand has given me salvation.
And they took the ark of God and put it in the house of Dagon, and put it in the house of Dagon.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Heli were put to death,
And he took away his clothing and his clothing and the prophet's words before Samuel and all that day and all the night; and they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And when Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was troubled greatly.
Now the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, was wandering, and said to Saul, his son, Take one of the servants with you, and get up; go and get search of the asses.
And Saul put his spear on him to put his spear on him; and Jonathan was certain that his father was purposing to put David to death.
Let our lord give orders to your servants who are before you, and let them make sport of a man playing on the harp: for when the evil spirit of God is on you, he may be on it and you will be better.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred men, got up and went away from Keilah, and went to the place where they were able to go. And Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah, and there he went up there.
They have made selection of new gods, and there was war in the doors: was there any one of forty thousand in Israel?
But Christ has come to the chief priest of the good things, to come, through the greater and without a tent which is not made by hands, not of this work;
For he who has come into his rest has rest from his works, as God did from his.
And now, take a new cart, and take two young cows on which there is no yoke on them, and put them on the cart, and shut up their calves at home.
So David went with him, and he and the six hundred men who were with him, and came to the river, where those who were left there were.
And it came to pass when he had given an end to his words, that he put his face on his face, and he sent for a place for Ramah.
For he has made an agreement over the dead, and has no force for all the words of the agreement,
And now, if you have done true and right, O king, have made Abimelech king; and if you have done well against destruction and his house, and have done to him what he has done,
Give no thought to your servant, an evil woman: for I have said my words and my wrath.
And we have had our fathers who gave us training, and we gave honour to them: will we not give ourselves to the Father of spirits, and have life?
So the more I sent to send him to see him again, so that you may be glad, and I may be the less sad.
All the trees have said to the thorns, Come and be king over us.
Making you complete in every good thing to do his will, working in us what is pleasing in his eyes through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever.
In which God, even more desiring to give to the sons of the undertaking of the undertaking of the undertaking of God,
And if your father has no faith in me, then say, Let me go to Beth-lehem, his town, for it is the year for all the families.
And if they say, Come up against us; then we went up: for the Lord has given them into our hands, and this is to us the sign.
And he said to them, Out of the fruit came out bread, and out of the strong strength came sweet; and they were not able to make clear the sense of the story.
For you yourselves have knowledge that later, when he was desiring to take the blessing, he was put to shame, because he did not get a cause for the change of his heart, though he had given it to it with weeping.
And he said, How am I to go? If Saul has news, he will put me to death. And the Lord said, Take a young cow with you, and say, I have come to give a meal to the Lord.
And Jonathan said to the young man, Make haste; do not keep quiet; and Jonathan's young man got the arrows and came to his master.
And when the Philistines came together, they came and put up their tents in Dothan; and Saul got up all Israel together, and they put up their tents in Gilboa.
And Samuel came to all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And they sent representatives to Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have taken back the ark of the Lord, come down and get it up to you.
And a messenger came to Saul, saying, Come quickly and come; for the Philistines have overcome the land.
Now see how great this was, to whom Abraham gave a tenth of the goods.
And he made an ephod and put it in his town, and all Israel had sex with it, and it became a waste to all his house.
But he who did not take away his seed from them, got a tenth of Abraham, and gave praise to him who had the word.
And David said to Saul, Your servant has been a keeper of the flock for his father; if the lion or the child is to come and take away a sheep from the band,
And the king said to her, Have no fear; but what did you see? And the woman said to Saul, I saw a god going up from the earth.
But the spirit of the Lord came on the mountain, and the horn was sounded, and the house of Abiezer went after him.
See that you do not keep back the words of the man of men: for if they were not able to get away from him who gave blows to the earth, how much more will we go away from him who says to him from heaven,
And when he came to him, he was seated by himself in the cold, and said, I have a word from God to you, and he got up from his seat.
And those who were full of food will get themselves out for bread, but those who are hungry will be full of food: and as for the good, she will have seven; but she who has a number of sons is wasted away.
And the children of Ephraim said to him, What is this you have done to us, not to send for us when you go to fight against Midian? And they were fighting with him.
But I am cut off between two, having a desire to be destroyed and to be with Christ, a thing far from the better.
And one in a certain place said, What is man, that you have no memory of him? or the son of man, that you take care of him?
And they went out into the field, taking the grapes, crushing the grapes, and went into the house of their gods, and went into the house of their gods, and took food and drink and put a curse on Abimelech.
And they went up into the town, and came into the town, and Samuel came out to them to go up to the high place.
And the rest of them were numbered by the children of Israel, three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
And early in the morning they got up early in the morning, and they saw their faces of Dagon on the earth before the ark of the Lord, and the head of Dagon, and the two branches of his hands were cut off at the door; only the fish were left to him.
And the king said, You will be put to death, you and your father's house.
And David said, See, the king's spear, and let one of the young men go over and take it.
Saying, This is the blood of the agreement which God gave you.
And Samuel took the horn of oil and put oil on him among his brothers; and the Spirit of the Lord came on David from that day forward. And Samuel got up and went to Ramah.
And Saul said, Make clear among the people, and say to them, Let every man take his ox, and every man his sheep, and put them to death, and let them be put to death, and do not sin against the Lord in taking with the blood. And all the people took his ox with him that night and put him to death there.
O Lord, when you went out of Seir, when you went out of the land of Edom, the earth was moved, and the heavens dropped, and the skies dropped water.
And when they went forward and put before them the children and cattle and all sorts of value,
And David put them to death from evening till evening, and there was not a man of them, but four hundred young men, who had got on camels and went in flight.
But the Lord said to Samuel, See not on his face, or on the high place of his body: because I have put him to shame, because it is not as man sees: for man is looking on the face, but the Lord is looking on the hearts.
And Abimelech took his seat in the field, and he took away the tents of Zebulun and his friends out of the town, and they would not let them go in.
And she said to him, Give me a blessing, for you have given me the land of the south. Give me the springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
And Jesse gave birth to Shammah to go by. And he said, The Lord has not given this.
And when she came to her husband, she said to him, A man of God came to me, having the face of an angel very much. And when I had said who he was, and where he came, he would not say to me.
And every man who has been left in your house will come to him and bow to him for a reward of silver and a cake of bread, and he will say, Let me go to one of the priest's orders to take a bit of bread.
And the five men went up to search out the land, and came in there, and took the image and the ephod and the images and the metal image and the metal image; and the priest was at the door of the doorway with the six hundred men armed for war.
And wisdom came to Mizpah to his house; and his daughter came out to see him with timbrels and dancing; and she was his only child, and had no son or daughter.
And the vine said to them, Should I go out of my new wine, and give glory to God and man, and go to be lifted up and out over the trees?
So David made an oath to Saul, and Saul went to his house; but David and his men went up to the strong place.
And he went to the town of Ramah in Ramah, and the spirit of the Lord came on him, and he went on and gave an account of the words till he came to the town of Ramah.
Now there came an old man from his work out of the field, and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he was living in the town of Benjamin; but the men of the place were Benjamin.
By faith they went through the Red Sea, as by the dry land, which the Egyptians made waste.
Yes, I am to take care of all things, because of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of all things I have undergone loss, and have taken them away, so that Christ I may get profit and be seen in him.
And Baal-hanan, the son of Rechab, came with his brothers, and went over to Shechem, and gave him a safe heart.
And they went out into the fields, and took their vine-gardens, crushing the grapes, and made them glad, and went into the house of their gods, and took food and drink and gave a curse to Abimelech.
And those who were in the town of Galatia, and those in the towns of Chinnereth,
And she made a vow, saying, O Lord of armies, if you will see the evil of your servant, and keep me in memory of me, and not forget your servant, but give to your servant a man, I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and there will not be a worm on his head.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, came to the Lord, and said, O Lord God, keep me in mind and make my prayer, O God, for this time, O God; and I will take punishment for myself, because of my two eyes on the Philistines.
And David was living in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelite.
And some of the sons of Levi, having taken the priesthood, gave orders to take a tenth of the people by the law, that is, their brothers, even though they came out of the body of Abraham;
And Saul said to Samuel, I have given ear to the voice of the Lord, and I have gone on the way which the Lord sent me: I took away the king of Amalek, and overcame Amalek.
And I will not take away the man from my altar, to take away your eyes and make your soul sad, and all the increase of your house will be put to death.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to their voice, and make a king for them. And Samuel said to the children of Israel, Go every man to his town.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and came to Ashdod.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord? and to whom will he go up from us?
Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel, and the men of Israel went in flight before the Philistines, and they were put to death on Mount Gilboa.
In those days the Philistines came together for war; and Israel went out to war against the Philistines and put up their tents by the rock. And the Philistines came to Aphek,
And as Samuel was offering the burned offering, the Philistines came near to fight against Israel: but the Lord sent thunder on that day on the Philistines and troubled them, and they were overcome before Israel.
But his father and his mother said to him, Is there not a wife among your brothers, or among all our people, that you may take a wife from the Philistines? But the son said to his father, Take her for me, for she is pleasing to me.
And he overcame the Amalekites from Havilah till you go to Shur, which is over Egypt.
And from Samuel all the words of the Lord came to the people who had given him a king.
And the asses of white asses, and those who are seated in her carriage, and those who go on the way, talk about it.
And the man got up to go, but his father-in-law made a request for him, and he went back and went into the night.
But Jabez was running away; and they went after him and took him, cutting off his hands and on his great toes.
And truly, if they had no memory of that which they had come from, they had now come back.
And she said to him, How do you say, I have love for you, and your heart is not with me? these three times you have been untrue to me, and have not said to me in your great power.
Who, being in the form of God, did not give thought to God as to God,
And when they were near Jebus, the day was far away; and the servant said to his master, Come, let us go to this town of the Jebusite, and keep it safe.
For it is clear that our Lord came from Judah; Moses said nothing about the priests.
By a new and new way which he has made holy for us, through the veil which is to say,
And Abimelech came to the tower, attacking it, and came near the tower to burn it with fire.
So now, take your place and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes.
You who put on white asses, you who are seated in delicate clothing, and walking by the way, give thought.
So that you may have knowledge of the things which are good, so that you may be true and without sin till the day of Christ.
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters; he put out his family and thirty daughters outside his father's house for seven years.
And the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Heli, the chief of the Levites, came to death.
And you yourselves have knowledge, you are the same as well, that in the first way of the good news when I went away from Macedonia, there was no division with me in the word, but only for you only.
The children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them over to the Philistines for forty years.
And she said to the son of Barachel, Say to me, I say to you, in which your strength is great, and what it is with you, you will not go loose.
And he said, Send me away, for our offerings are in the town, and my brother gave me orders to be present. So then, if I have found grace in your eyes, let me go away and see my brothers. And he has not come to the king's table.
Let your ways be free from the love of money, for he has said, I will never let you go in flight, and I will never give you up.
And I say more more to do this, so that I may come again to you quickly.
And he said to the children of Israel, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has done: I took Israel out of the land of Egypt, and I gave you salvation from the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hands of all the kingdoms of the earth.
And where there is forgiveness of them, there is no more offering for sin.
And the lords of the Philistines came together to make a great burned offering to Dagon, their god, and to be glad, for they said, Our god has given our haters our haters into our hands.
How much more is the blood of the Christ, who gave himself to God by the eternal Spirit, making clear your heart from the dead to worship God?
And the responsible men of Gilead said to themselves, May the Lord be a witness between us if we do not give orders to you.
And the thorns say to the trees, If you put oil on me, then come and put your faith in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and let the cedars of Lebanon be burned.
And when Samuel came to Saul, Saul said to him, Happy be you of the Lord, I have come true the word of the Lord.
And when some time came, some came into it; and when it was first, they did not go in because of their faith.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he said, Because this nation has broken my agreement which I gave to their fathers and had not given ear to my voice,
And the woman came to Saul ( for he was very much troubled) and said to him, See, your servant has given ear to your voice, and I have put my life in my hands; and I have given ear to the words which you have given me.
And David got up, and came to the place where Saul had put up his tents; and David saw the place where Saul was resting, and Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul was taking care of his place, and the people were round about him.
But to rest still in the flesh is needed for you.
And you will cry out in that day because of your king whom you have given you; and the Lord will give you no answer in that day.
These are the words of love, knowing that I am put to the answer of the glad news.
But Asher was living among the Canaanites, and the people of the land, because they did not send them out.
And the priest said to them, Go in peace: your way is before the Lord.
For even in the town of Thessalonica you sent again and again to my need.
And he said to them, See, days are coming, says the Lord, and I will make a new agreement for the children of Israel, and for the house of Judah.
So when Israel was planted, the Midianites and Amalek and the children of the east came up against them.
And he put an end to them from Aroer till they came to Aroer, twenty towns, and to Abel, a very great slaughter. So the children of Ammon were overcome before the children of Israel.
And the Spirit of the Lord was on him, and he was judged by Israel; and he went out to war, and the Lord sent out the king of Babylon, and the king of Babylon went into his hand; and his hand overcame the Ethiopians.
And they went back and went in flight to the rock of Rimmon, to the rock of Rimmon; and they took five thousand men in the roads, and went after them to go after them, and put them to death.
And Deborah, a prophet, was a prophet, the wife of whom she had been put to shame.
Some of you, because of envy and argument, have the word of Christ, but some of the good will.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came together to put a great offering to the worship of Dagon their god, and said, Our god has given us up our haters.
And David said, The Lord, who put me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the mouth of the child, will give me salvation from the hand of the Philistines. And he said to David, Go, for the Lord will be with you.
And no man takes the honour for himself, but the name of God, even as Aaron.
And the wife of Gilead gave birth to his sons; and when his wife's sons got up, they gave birth to laughing and said to him, You are not to have a heritage in our father's house, for you are the son of another.
And Saul sent men to David's house to see him and put him to death in the morning; and Michal, the wife of David, said to him, If you do not keep your life tonight, tomorrow you will be put to death.
And be good to you, and give grace to you, who have kept me this day from the blood of blood, and from the blood of my hand.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw; and the mass of people was turned away, and they went to blows one another.
As the words of the old men say, Because of the evil of the evil-doer, and my hand will not be on you.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what seems good to you, till you have taken care of him, but may the Lord give effect to his word. And the woman was waiting for her son till she was a child.
And he was dead, and he was put to death in Beth-lehem.
We have an altar for which they have no right to take the work of the House.
And David was living with him in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
For every high priest is ordered to give offerings and offerings, so that it is necessary for this man to have what he gives.
And on the seventh day they said to the wife of the king's wife, Put your husband clear to us, that we may not be burned with fire and the house of your father with fire: to give us an account of us. Is it not it?
If anyone had no mercy on the law of Moses, he would have no mercy on the witness of two or three witnesses.
And he said, They were my brothers, the children of my mother: as the Lord lives, if you had kept them safe, I would not put you to death.
In which we are made holy by the offering of the body of Jesus Christ.
From now on till his haters are placed for the feet of his feet.
The five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites and the Zidonians and the Hivites, who are living in Lebanon, from Mount Hermon to Hamath.
And Jonathan took off his robe from the robe which was on him, and gave it to David and his dress, with his sword and his bow and his band.
The children of Israel came together out of Naphtali, out of Asher, and out of all the tribe of Manasseh, and went after Midian.
And when his arms saw that Saul was dead, he was put to death in the same way with his sword.
Now to our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever.
In that day, I will make a decision against you, all that I have said about his house, from the first to the end.
For we who have faith will come into rest, as he said, As I have made an oath in my wrath: if they come into my rest, and this is true when the works of the world were ended.
If one man sins against another, God will judge him; but if a man sin against the Lord, who will make a request for him? but they did not give ear to the voice of their father, for the Lord had thought to put them to death.
And when she was seated on the ass, and was going down the mountain, David and his men came down to see her, and she came to them.
And he said to her, If you go with me, I will go; but if you do not go with me, I will not go.
Now at the end of these days he gave us an account of his Son, whom he had given over all things, through whom he made the world.
And he said to all Israel, You are on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said to Saul, Do what seems good to you.
Keep in mind your rulers, who have given the word of God to you, and keep the outcome of their way of life, and be guided by their faith.
And again, when he had put him in position with these words, he said, The Philistines are on you, and the Philistines are waiting for him, and they are waiting for him in the bedroom. But he was broken like a spider's thread.
For if he was on the earth, he would not be a priest; for there were the priests who were given by the law, the offering,
And the three hundred sounding the horns, and the Lord put every man's sword on his neighbour through all the army; and the army went in flight to the end of Beth-hoglah in the valley, and to the limit of Abel-beth-maacah, to the end of the bath.
Let us keep the memory of our hope without doubting, for he who has said is true.
So that you may be without blame and without cause, children of God, in the middle of a twisted and evil generation, among whom you are seen as lights in the world.
For to me is Christ, and to death there is profit.
Because I will have mercy on their wrongdoing, and I will have no memory of their sins any more.
And Abimelech was told that all the men of Shechem were together.
For when God made a promise to Abraham, he made an oath by no greater word, saying,
And the men who were dead were not put to death with the grain, and the cry of the town went up to heaven.
By the teaching of the baptism of baptism, and of putting on of the hands, and of the coming from the dead, and of eternal punishment.
And when David and his men came to the town, they saw that it was burned with fire; and their wives and their sons and their daughters were taken prisoner.
But when he was put in the middle of the night, he got up in the middle of the night, and took the doors of the town, and the doors of the door, smashing them with the rods, and put them on his shoulders, and put them up to the top of the hill which is before Hebron.
And David had no man or woman, and he was not able to send any of them to Gath, saying, Lest they say evil things against us. So David did as he had done in the land of the Philistines.
And Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, cutting down the branches from the trees, took it, put it on his back, and said to the people who were with him, What you have seen me do, make haste and do as I have done.
So Saul took him away from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came before the people.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
And the Lord will not be able to put out my hand against the king of the Lord: but now, take the spear, and let us go.
The shame of Christ is greater than the wealth of Egypt, for he has seen the reward.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the first Phanuel, and the name of the first was Shelomith.
And he said to him, Where is your mouth, that you said, Who is Abimelech, that we may serve him? is it not the people whom you have put to shame? let us go out now and fight with them.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Belteshazzar, and the name of the other Phanuel; and over the last she had no children.
And they went round about Benjamin; they went after them without rest, crushing them on the east side of the east.
And Samuel said, Has the Lord delight in burned offerings and offerings, as in the hearing of the Lord? See, let's be better than the offering, and give ear than the fat of sheep.
So Abimelech and all the people who were with him got up by night and were waiting for Shechem in four bands.
But you have turned away from me, and have gone to other gods, and I will not keep you safe.
And they went through the waste land and went through the land of Edom and the land of Moab, and came to the other side of Moab; and they put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon; but they did not come in the direction of Moab, for the Arnon was the limits of Moab.
And David said to Saul, Let no man be in flight because of him, for he will go and fight against the Philistines.
For all the high priest is given to make offerings and offerings, so that the high priest may have a meal offering.
And Saul said, Give ear now, you son of Ahitub. And he said, Here I am, my lord.
And Saul sent messengers to David, to take care of him and put him to death in the morning. And Michal, the wife of David, said to him, If you do not keep your life at night, tomorrow you will be put to death.
And the skin took up the legs and put it before Saul; and he said, See, that which is left: give your food to you, for to this fixed time it is kept for you, saying, The people I have called for you. And Saul took food with Samuel on that day.
And he took a young man from Succoth, questioning him, and he gave orders to him the heads of Succoth and the responsible men, seventy men.
And when he had news of the dream and its sense, he gave his face to the tents of Israel; and he said, Up, for the Lord has given the tents of Midian into your hands.
And Saul gave birth to his daughter Michal, the wife of David, to be the son of Laish, the son of Gallim.
And be glad with me in the same way.
And the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand war-carriages and six thousand horsemen, as the sand on the sea, and they came up and put up their tents at Michmash, east of Beth-aven.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, Why do you make request after my name, seeing it is great?
And I said, I am the Lord your God, fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living, and you would not give ear to my voice.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have said again of another day.
And David took all the flocks and herds of sheep before them, and said, This is David's goods.
And the Spirit of God came on Saul in hearing these words, and his wrath was burning.
So that day they overcame the Philistines from searching to flight, and the people were tired.
And all the people were cutting down every man his branches and went after Abimelech, and put them to the strong place, and put the strong tower on them, so that all the men of Shechem had dead men and women.
And his father said to him, Is there not among the daughters of your brothers, or among all my people, a woman, that you may take a wife from the Philistines? And the son said to his father, Take her for me, for she is right in my eyes.
And the old man said to him, Peace be with you: I will give up all things which are necessary: I say to you, do not go in the street.
And the king was seated on his seat, as long as there was a seat on the wall, and Jonathan got up, and Abner was seated on the side of Saul, and the place was fixed for David.
The mother of Sisera, looking out of the window, crying out through the window, Why is his carriage so long in coming? why are the wheels of his war-carriages?
And he went to Ramah in Ramah, and the Spirit of God was on him, and he went on and said to the prophet,
And now his hair came to the earth.
But we are not able to give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel have made an oath, saying, Cursed be he who gives a wife to the children of Benjamin.
And Saul and his men went to search for him; and when David was told, he went down to the rock, and there he was in the waste land. And when Saul had news of it, he went after David in the waste land.
And Jonathan, the wife of Jonathan, was given to his friend who was his chief man.
And David said to Abimelech, Is there not in your hand a spear or a sword in your hand? for I did not take my sword or my goods with me, because the king's word was hard.
And he sent and took him in. Now he was red and beautiful, and beautiful to see. And the Lord said, Get up, put oil on him, for this is he.
But he, turning back from the stone images of Gilgal, said, I have a secret word for you, O king. And the king said, Keep quiet. And all who were waiting by him went away from him.
Then Gad, the prophet, said to David, You are not to keep in the strong place; go out and go into the land of Judah. So David went out and came to the woods of Edom.
So I made an oath in my wrath, if they come into my rest.
But I have thought it necessary to send to you, my brother, and to my friend, and to the man of war, but to your Apostle, and to those who have the help of my pleasure.
And I wish you to have knowledge of me, brothers and sisters, that the things which are given to me are the things which are to come.
And the king said to the priests, Come, let the priests be put to death, and let the people of Edom be turned to the priests, and let him put on the priests and put them to death on that day.
Will the men of Keilah give me up into his hands? will Saul come down, as your servant has had news of? May the Lord, the God of Israel, say to you, Say to your servant, He will come down.
Yes, I am to take care of all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I had undergone the loss of all things, and have no knowledge of them, so that I might have Christ.
God has said in numbers of things and in much ways to the fathers in the prophets,
Do not be guided by strange teachings, for it is better for the heart of grace, not with food, which has not given to those who are living in them.
And Saul, seeing David's voice, said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
And when he went to the house of his father at Ophrah, he put to death his brothers, the sons of Libya, as well as seventy persons, on one stone; but Jotham, the youngest, the son of Jerub-baal, was left; for he kept himself safe.
And Saul went on on one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the side of the mountain, and David was driving himself away from Saul; and Saul and his men came to David and took them.
For he who makes holy and those who have made holy all of it, for which cause he is not put to shame to be his brothers,
And the Lord made sport of Sisera, and all the war-carriages, and all the army, with the edge of the sword before destruction; and Sisera got down from his chariot, and went in flight.
And as she came, she made a request to him to ask her father the field; and she got down from the ass. And Caleb said to her, What would you do?
And she got up and put himself on her face to the earth, and said, Here is your servant, like a servant to keep the feet of my lord's servants.
And when Saul saw that he was wise, he was full of fear.
And David had said to the men who were with him, What will be done for the man who overcomes the Philistines and takes away the shame of Israel? for who is this man of the earth, the Philistines, who have the power of the living God?
And Jonathan, the son of Saul, got up and went to David into the wood and made his hands strong in God: and he said to him,
And put on the pillars on which the house had rest, and the one with his right hand and the other with his left;
And she said to her young men, Go on before me; see, I come after you, but she did not say to her husband's wife.
At the same time he gave him grief that day; and at Ziklag is the kings of Judah to this day.
And the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, said, I came to the town of Gibeah, which is to Benjamin, and to my wife, to get the night.
And he said to Saul, Why do you give ear to the words of the men of David?
And Jesse took an ass with bread and a bottle of wine and a young goat, sent by David his son to Saul.
For this reason God has made him great, and has given him a name greater than every name:
Now Abimelech, the son of Jerubbesheth, went to Shechem, to his mother's brothers, and said to them and to the family of his mother,
And the children of Benjamin came from Geba, and put to death the children of Israel that day twenty-two thousand men.
And when David saw that Saul had made evil designs against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Take the ephod.
And from the tribe of Dan, there was a division of Zorah and Nahalal, six hundred men, ready for war;
And one of Israel said, Have you seen this man who is coming up, for he has come up against Israel, and the man who is to put him to death, the king will get great wealth and give him his daughter, and will make his father's house free from the payment of his father.
So that you are not a hater of work, but those who are guided by faith and by faith have the word.
And let us make offerings of praise to God for ever, that is, the fruit of the lips which make a witness to his name.
And now go back and go in peace, so that you may not be angry with the lords of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel got up and went up to the house of God, and said to God, Which of us will go up first against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said, Judah will go up first.
For you have need of faith, so that, having done the will of God, you may take the word.
And David had faith in David, saying, He has given his people Israel to shame, and he will be my servant for ever.
And Samuel said to the people, It is the Lord who made Moses and Aaron, and who took your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And the young men went on their way, went back, and gave him word of all these words.
And he had two wives: the name of the first was Belteshazzar, and the name of the second was Penuel; and over the last she had no children.
God has given grace to us, so that they may not be made free from us.
But he gave him a second part twice, for he had love for Hananiah, but the Lord shut her up.
And there was a man of Ramah who was near the hill country of Ephraim, and Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of the Maacathite.
And I will send you to the river of Egypt, to Sisera, and to Sisera, and to his war-carriages, and to his people, and give him into your hands.
Then his brothers and all his father's house came down and took him up, and took him up, and put him in his body, and put him in his body, and put him in his place in the resting-places of his father's resting-place, for twenty years.
And there was a great priest over the house of God,
And the priest said to David, There is no bread here at hand; there is only holy bread, but if the young men have kept themselves from women.
And after the second veil, the House, which is the most holy place,
And Saul's brother said to him and to his servant, Where did you go? And he said, To search for the asses; and when we saw that they were no longer, we went to Samuel.
And they gave him seventy silver silver out of the house of Baal, and gave him to the poor men who were in need, and they went after him.
And when he had been seen as a man, he made himself low, being given to death, death even of a cross.
And again, I will put my faith in him. And again, I and the children God has given me.
Whose voice was shaking the earth, but now he has said, Still I will make no fear of the earth only, but the heaven.
And Jair went to death and was put to death in the earth.
And David said to the Philistines, You come to me with the sword and with a spear and with a breastplate; but I come to you in the name of the Lord of armies, the God of the armies of Israel, which you have made sport of.
And the watchmen saw a man coming out of the town, and they said to him, Give us the door into the town, and we will be kind to you.
And the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you be sad for Saul, seeing I have put my face over Israel? put your horns with oil, and go, I will send you to Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem: for I have given me a king among his sons.
For see the man who has undergone these things against himself, so that you may not get tired in your souls and give up.
For it is clear that the children of Judah have come up from the house of Judah, to whom Moses said nothing about the priests.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of Midian seven years.
And Saul sent representatives to Jesse, saying, Send me your son David, who is in the fields.
And Saul sent men to the house of David to see him and put him to death in the morning; and Michal, his wife, said to David, If you do not give your life this night, tomorrow you are put to death.
Now the children of Israel had made an oath in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us will give of his daughters to the sons of Benjamin.
And the Lord sent to him Baal and Ashkenaz and laughing and Samuel and gave you safe from the hand of your haters round about, and you were living in peace.
For when all the words had been given by Moses to all the people, he took the blood of oxen with water and red wool and hyssop and put them over the book and all the people;
And the asses of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take one of the servants with you, and get up and see the asses.
And the people saw him, and gave praise to their god, for they said, Our god has given our haters our haters, and he who makes our land waste, and our wounded ones.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See, I am doing a thing in Israel, and the two ears of every one who has ears of it will tingle.
And he went up from there to Peniel, and said to them, As the men of Succoth said to him,
So that you may have knowledge of what is good, so that you may be true and without sin till the day of Christ.
And the angel of the Lord said to Adam, Take care of all that I say to the woman:
But be to give thought to the first days in which you have been given glory, you have undergone much trouble.
Looking to Jesus the grace of our faith, for the joy which was given to him for the joy which was before him, and put shame on shame and seated at the right hand of God.
And they went round the land of Edom, with the land of Moab, and came to the limit of the land of Moab, and put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon; and he would not go into the limits of Moab.
And they will not give teaching to his neighbour and to his brother, saying, Have you knowledge of the Lord, because they will all have knowledge of me from among them to the great One.
Say, I pray you, in the ears of all the people of Shechem, who is better for you, seventy persons, and all the sons of war, ruling over you, or one man over you? and I am your bone and your flesh.
And he sent and took him in. And he was red, with a beautiful face and a beautiful face. And the Lord said, Get up, put oil on him, for this is he.
And Samuel judges Israel all the days of his life.
Say of me before the Lord, and before his selection, if I have taken a man's ox or a ass, if I have done wrong to any man, if I have done wrong to any man, if I have put a payment on the hand of any man, and I will take care of it this day and give it back to you.
Why do you go in flight at my offering, and at my offering which I gave to my house, and have respect for your sons over me, to make yourselves fat from the first part of all the offerings of Israel?
But at the time of Michal, the daughter of Saul, the daughter of Saul, she was given to him for Adriel the Meholathite.
And I will send a young man, saying, Go and get out the arrows. If I say to the boy, See, the arrows are on this side of you, take them away; then come; for there is peace to you, and there is no loss: as the Lord lives.
And he says, You have made offerings and offerings and burned offerings and offerings for sin, and you have no pleasure in you; and you are given in the law.
And he gave the eleven hundred bits of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I will certainly give the silver of the silver from my hand to the Lord, and I will give them back to you.
So let us be full of fear, so that we may not come to his rest, if any of you may seem to come short of it.
And he took the oxen, cutting them in pieces, and sent them to all the country of Israel, saying, Everyone who does not come out, after Saul and Samuel, will be done to his oxen. And the fear of the Lord came on the people, and they went out like one man.
And Judah took Gaza and its limit, and Ashkelon and its outskirts, Ekron and its outskirts;
For I have given you a number of the way which I have said to you frequently, and now you are crying against the cross of Christ.
And I said to the king of Edom, Come here to me, the king of the Amalekites, with the pride of the king of heaven; and he says, Truly, the grief of death is past.
And Saul saw David from that day and forward.
And when he had given them orders, they overcame the town with the edge of the sword; but they let them go with all his brothers.
And Saul said to Jonathan, his son, and all his servants, that they might put David to death; but Jonathan, the son of Saul, was dear in love for David.
And Samuel saw Saul no longer till the day of his death: but Samuel was sorrowing for Saul, because the Lord had regret that he had made him king over Israel.
For we do not have a high priest, who is not able to give up with our weakness, but who has been tested in the same way, without sin.
And Samuel said to the people, Have no fear: you have done all this evil: have not turned away from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart;
And on the day when the Philistines came to take away the goods of the dead, they took Saul and his three sons on Mount Gilboa.
And he said to her, If they keep me with chains, a new number which has not been done, I am feeble and have been like one of the seed.
Then you will come to the mountain of God, where the army of the Philistines is, and it will come to pass, when you are come to the town, that you may come to a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp and with a harp and a pipe and a harp before them, and they will be able to say,
And she said to the son of Barachel, Say to me, What is your strength so great? and with what will you be put to shame?
And the number of them were three hundred men, and all the people were bent on their knees to drink water.
Saying, I will make your name clear to my brothers, in the middle of the church I will make songs of praise to you: and again, I will have faith in him.
And he got up and went after his wife; and he came to the man and said to him, Are you the man who said to the woman? And he said, I am.
Now give attention to their voice; but still give witness to them, and give orders to them the right of the king, who will rule over them.
And Saul said to him, Why have you made a design against me, you and the son of Jesse, and have given him bread and a sword, and have given orders to the Lord for him, that he may go up against me, and make a statement against me this day?
And the sons of deceit have said, This is the salvation of this man. And they have no respect for him, and have not given him a present, and he is like a deaf man.
Then Saul said to his servant, Come and let us go. So they went to the town where the man of God was.
And she said to her father, Give me only what I desire to do: let me go, so that I may go on the mountains for two months, weeping for my wife with my friends.
For they and all their flocks came with their tents; and like locusts full of locusts, there was a great number of men and camels, wasting whatever they had touched.
And Saul said to him, Why have you made a design against me, you and the son of Jesse, when you gave him bread and a sword, and made request of God for him, so that he might come against me and put me in waiting for me, as has been done this day?
And Moses put his faith in faith when he got up, and would not be named the son of Pharaoh's daughter.
Then the horns of the horn were broken by the sound of the horn, the song of their great ones.
And the heart of the priest was glad; and he took the ephod and the images and the images and went in among the people.
Only fear the Lord, and keep him in the faith with all your heart, for see that which he has made great with you.
And he overcame the tower of Peniel, and put the men of the town to death.
For you yourselves have knowledge that later, when you desire to take the blessing, he was put to shame ( for he did not have a place to change the change of sins), though he kept it with weeping.
And when Samuel was offering the burned offering, the Philistines went out to fight against Israel. And the Lord sent thunder on that day on the Philistines and troubled them, and they were overcome before Israel.
And this reason, having endured, he took the oath.
And his sons did not go in his ways, but made money for money, and took a reward of money, and made fair decisions.
Do not take away the desire of a man, because he has no value, and is not able to give up; for they are unclean.
And Saul said to his armourbearer, Take your sword and let me go through it, so that these uncircumcised men may come and send me through and make sport of me, but his arms will not come, for he was overcome with fear. So Saul took his sword and went down on it.
And again the Lord had been named by Samuel. And Samuel came to him, and said, Here am I; for you have been my servant. And he said, I have no pity, my son, and have rest.
For I have no one to do with one another, who will take care of you.
And Jonathan overcame the forces of the Philistines who were in Geba; and when the Philistines were hearing, Saul sounded a horn through all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews give ear.
And he will put over them the captains of thousands and captains of hundreds, cutting the plough in the field, and the grain of grain, and the grain and the war-carriages.
I put my face in prayer for the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And all the responsible men of Israel came together and came to the town of David to Ramah.
Because of what you and I have said, See, the Lord is between you and me for ever.
Now there was no one in the land in the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make war or spears.
And by faith it is hard to do good; for he is the man who comes to God to put his faith in him, and to those who are looking for him for a reward.
And to the angels he said, Who makes his angels spirits, and his servants a flame of fire.
In addition, we had the fathers of our flesh to give training to us, and we gave them worship: will we not give much more to the Father of spirits and life?
Which hope we have as a mark of the soul, true and true, and which goes into that place inside the veil;
And they gave news to Saul, saying, See, the people have done evil against the Lord by taking the flesh with the blood. And he said, You have been untrue, and have taken a great stone to me today.
Be awake, O woman of grief; awake, awake, awake, and give up a song; get up, let your prisoners be taken away, you son of Abinadab.
She may not take any of the fruit of the vine, or drink wine or strong drink, or do anything unclean, all that I gave to her.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, All are like Zebah and Zalmunna, about whom you made sport of me, saying, Is the branches of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, that we may give food to your tired men?
And wisdom went with the responsible men of Gilead, and the people made him head and head over them; and they gave orders to the Lord in Mizpah all his words.
And when they had news of the dream and its sense, he gave worship to them, and came back to the tents of Israel and said, Up, for the Lord has given the tents of Midian into our hands.
And all those who were in fear of death were all their days under the power of slavery.
And the king said, You will certainly be put to death, you and Ahimelech and all your father's house.
And David made a cry to the people and to Abner, the son of Ner,
And they put the ark of the Lord on the hollow of the cart, and the mass of gold, and the metal images, and the metal images.
So David went in flight and got away, and came to the town of God to Ramah, and gave him news of all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and made their living-place in the same way.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, See, the man of whom I said to you, this man will be king over my people.
So they said to the Lord, Will the man come here? And the Lord said, See, he has taken his place in secret.
And all the men of Shechem came together, and all the houses of Millo, and made Abimelech king, by the valley in Shechem.
And they put him in the land of his heritage in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the hill-country of Gaash.
God, having a long time, said to the fathers in the prophets by division and in all sorts,
And David put his hand into the bag, and took a stone from it, and put it on it, and put it on his brow; and the stone went down into his brow, and he went on his face to the earth.
If they say to us, Be waiting till we come to you. Then we will be in our place and will not go up to them.
And thirty men were seated on thirty asses, and they were captains of thirty towns; and they were named Jair, the town of Jair, to this day in the land of Gilead.
The Lord put on to Sisera, all his war-carriages, and all his army, with the edge of the sword in front of the sword; and as for Sisera, when he got waste, he went in flight on his feet.
If then he was on the earth, he would not be a priest, and there were those who gave the offerings by the law.
Keeping the word of life to my glory in the day of Christ, because I have not gone in vain, or have been working for nothing.
And now make a new cart, and take two young cows, on which there has come no yoke, and the oxen will be put to the cart, and the oxen will be taken away from them.
Now when Joshua had sent the people away, every man went to his heritage to take the land.
And Micah said to him, Go with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten shekels of silver by the year, and a request of clothing and your food. So the Levites went in.
But the people would not give ear to the voice of Samuel, saying, No, but we will have a king over us.
And I have knowledge of how to be put to shame, and I have knowledge how to do all things; in everything and in all things I have knowledge of the secret, to be full and to be in need and to be in need and to be in need.
And the children of Israel were turning back to Benjamin, and said, One tribe is taken away from Israel.
And when they came back from the death of the Philistines, the women came out of all the towns of Israel, singing and dancing, to see King Saul with timbrels and with joy and instruments of music.
And it was so. And when he got up early the day, he took the wool from the wool, and draining out the drops of dew from the water, full of water.
So that by the two table there is no use for God to be false, so that we may have the best comfort, who have gone in flight for the hope which is waiting for us.
But if they say, Come up to us; then we will go up: for the Lord has given them into our hands, and this is the sign for us.
And Samuel gave him all the words, and did not keep them secret from him. And he said, It is the Lord: let him do what is good in his eyes.
And he said, I have done wrong, but now I am to give me honour before the chiefs of my people and Israel, and come back with me, so that I may give worship to the Lord your God.
And when they saw a man coming out of the town, they said to him, Let us see the door of the town, and let us be kind to you.
And Samuel said to the people, The Lord made Moses and Aaron, and who took your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
Even in the same way, in the town of Thessalonica, you sent me twice for my need.
And Saul said, Come near, all the heads of the people, and see, and see where this sin has been this day.
And the Lord said to him, Peace be to you: fear not; you will not be put to death.
And he took off his clothing, and gave prophets before Samuel and all that night and all that night. And they said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And David said to Saul, Your servant was keeping care of his father's sheep; and when there came a lion or a bear, and took a lamb from the flock,
And David made a request to the Lord, saying, Am I to go after this band? And he said to him, Go after you; for you will certainly overtake and be safe.
And the children of Ephraim said to him, Why have you done to us this way, so that you did not send us in flight with Midian? And they gave him sharp orders.
And at Nob, the town of the priests, he was put to death by the sword, from man even to woman, from the child even to the child, with ox and ass and sheep, by the mouth of the sword.
And Jesse took his seven sons before Samuel; and Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not put any one of these.
And when the Philistines had news, they said, What is the voice of this great cry in the tents of the Hebrews? And they saw that the ark of the Lord had come into the tent-circle.
And they made themselves clear to the army of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, See, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they were secretly.
And Saul and the men of Israel came together, and put up their tents by the valley of God, and put the fight in position against the Philistines.
For there is a division of the law which was given by the law, because of its weakness and in the waste.
And they said to him, Be quiet, put your hand on your mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest: is it better for you to be a priest to the house of one man, or that you may be a priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?
So Moab was overcome that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest for eighty years.
And he took the young goat and the meal offering, and gave it to the Lord on the rock, to the man who had done wonders. And man and his wife were watching.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord,
And he said to his servants, See, you see a mad man! why have you brought him to me?
In that day, I will give birth to what I have said about his house, and I will make an end of it.
Then Saul said to the people who were with him, Take a number, and see who is gone from us: and when they were numbered, Jonathan and his men were not there.
And they said to them, He is before you; see, he is before you; for today he came to the town, for the people have a meal today in the high place.
And the Spirit of the Lord had put on the rod, and the sound of the horn was sounding, and the head of the sons of Ezer was named to him.
Why are you living between two sides, so that you may give ear to the cry of the flock? Reuben was divided against himself, and there was a division of strong men.
That the Lord sent a prophet to the children of Israel, and said to them, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, says: I took you up out of Egypt, and took you out of the prison-house;
The Lord has done this to Jonathan, and more, let it please my father to do you evil, if I do not make it clear to you and send you away, so that you may go in peace: and the Lord will be with you as he has been with my father.
For then he was to have been kept from the first of the world, but now at the end of time he has been seen for the destruction of his wrongdoing.
For this reason Jesus was allowed outside the door, so that he might make the people holy by his blood.
And you are to see, and if it goes up by the way of his heritage to Beth-shemesh, he has done this great evil: but if not, we will see that it is not his hand touched us, but it has come to pass.
And they were put to death, and made a decision for themselves, as they are the Son of God, and made a decision.
Then there went up with his father and his mother and his mother Timnah, and came to Timnah; and there a lion made a loud outcry against him.
And give birth to Jesse to the offering, and I will make clear to you what you are to do; and on my name you will put oil on me.
And David came to the two hundred men who had been tired to go after David, and whom they had gone away at the stream, and they went out to see David and the people who were with him; and David went near to the people and gave them rest.
By faith they went through the Red Sea, like the dry land in the dry land, which the Egyptians had seen.
Now the name of the man was Nabal of Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail; and she was a woman of good sense and of a beautiful face; but the man was full of pride and evil in his works, and he was of the family of Caleb.
And they said these things, and put away all the false gods of strange gods, and gave worship to the Lord their God: and he was overcome with their troubles.
And the five men went to spy out the land of Laish, and said to their brothers, Do you see that there is in these houses an ephod and false gods and a metal image and a metal image? now take note what you have to do.
But, my dear loved, we have faith better in you, and nearer to salvation, though we say so.
And he said, They were my brothers, the children of my mother: as the Lord is living, I would not put you to death.
Wherever they went out, the hand of the Lord was against them, as the Lord had said; and as the Lord had made an oath to them, they were greatly troubled.
And the two made a agreement before the Lord; and David was living in the wood: but Jonathan went back to his house.
Keeping the word of life for me, because of the pride of my pride in the day of Christ, so that I did not go in vain or in weariness.
She takes note of the window, crying out, The mother of Sisera, through the windows; why is his carriage cut off? why are the steps of his carriage?
And Joram, the son of Joash, was dead in a good old age; and he was put to death in the place of his father Joash, in the place of Jekamiah, in the place of Abital.
And I say to you, I am the Lord your God: you have no fear of the gods of the Amorites in whose land you are living; but you have not given ear to my voice.
And twenty-three years he gave punishment to Israel; and he went to death and was put to death in the earth.
So take care that no one is falling short of the grace of God, so that there is no one to get up as a root of bitter grief, and great is the cause of sin.
And her lord got up in the morning, opening the doors of the house, and went out to go his way. And the woman, his wife, was falling down at the door of the house, and her hands were on the doorstep.
For tomorrow I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you will put oil on him to be ruler over my people Israel, to keep my people from the Philistines: for I have seen my people, for their cry has come to me.
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the town of the living God, in Jerusalem, and to the band of thousands of angels;
And he took the tribe of Benjamin and their families, and the rest fell on the family of the Zerahites; and Saul, the son of Kish, was waiting for him, and he was not seen.
And he took the young goat with the meal offering, and put it on the rock to the Lord; and the angel was honoured, and the man's wife was seen.
And three thousand of Judah went to the top of the rock, and said to him, Do you not see that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that you have done to us? And he said to them, As they did to me, so I have done to them.
Say, You who are seated on white asses, you who are seated in delicate clothing, and walking by the way.
And the men of Israel went in flight, and Benjamin came to put a sword on the thirty men of Israel, because they said, They will be crushed before us as in the first.
But when Saul saw that he was very well, he was very angry by him.
And Saul made request to the Lord, and the Lord gave him no answer, or by his dreams, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And the peace of God, which goes on all knowledge, will keep your hearts and thoughts in Christ Jesus.
But they took away the form of a servant, making the form of men.
The new and the living way which he has made for us through the veil, which is, his flesh;
And he was in need of water and said to the Lord, You have given this great salvation by the hand of your servant; and now I will be put to death for need of water and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised.
And the children of Ephraim said to him, What is this you have done to us, not requesting for us when you went to fight against the Midianites? And they were angry with him.
And Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went to his house at Gibeah of Saul.
Then the children of Israel went out for the fight against Benjamin; and the children of Israel got ready for war at Gibeah.
And Adam said to the angel of the Lord, Let us take care of you till we have made ready a young goat for you.
And her hater made her bitter, because the Lord had shut her up.
See, the days are coming, that I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house, so that there will not be an old man in your house.
The sons of Benjamin went out from Gibeah; and on that day were twenty-two thousand men of Israel on that day.
And the number of those who were stretched out with their hands were three hundred men, and all the people were bent on their knees to drink water.
For we have not here a town for ever, but we are looking for one who is to come.
And being given to Elkanah and his wife, he said, May the Lord give you offspring of this woman for the request of the Lord. Then they went to their place.
I am journeying to the end of the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And David went in flight and got away, and came to Samuel at Ramah, and gave him news of all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went on living in Shimron.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the men of laughing, Because Israel took away my land when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon to the Jabbok, and to the Jordan; and now, give peace.
And they gave no memory of the Lord their God, and gave them into the hands of Sanballat, the captain of the army, and the army of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab, and they made war against them.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came out, and from the time when they came out, David was wiser than any of the servants of Saul, and his name was very great.
By faith Abel gave to God a greater offering than Cain, because of his approval, because God had given him his approval, and by his word he was still dead.
For I have given you a long time as many as I have said to you, and you are crying against the cross of Christ.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistines, he said to Abner, the captain of the forces, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As your soul is life, I am unable to say.
But Jonathan had not had news of the oath of his father with the army; so he put the stick in his hand, and he put it into the honeycomb; and he put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were shining.
But Jonathan, Saul's son, was glad in David's heart. And Jonathan said to David, My father Saul is looking for you to put you to death; and now I say to you, Give attention to yourself in the morning, and go in a secret place and take cover.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of Midian seven years.
But we are not ready for destruction, but of faith to salvation.
For this reason Jesus, that he might make himself holy by the blood of the people, without the door of the door.
And here, if any man is dead, there is a tenth of the things which are given to death, and there is one who gave witness to him that he was living.
Then Samuel took the bottle of oil and put on his head, and gave him a kiss and said, Is it not because the Lord has made you ruler over his heritage?
For this cause the Lord, the God of Israel, has said, I have said that your house and your father's house are to go before me for ever: but now the Lord says, Be far from me: for those who give me honour will be honoured, and those who make sport of me will be turned to shame.
And there was a man named Micah in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the five men, who go into the direction of the land, go up there: they have taken the pictured image and the ephod and the images and the metal image and the metal image, and the priest is standing at the door of the doorway, and the six hundred men armed with instruments of war.
And they got up and went to Ziph before Saul; but David and his men were in the waste land, in the Arabah on the south side of the waste land.
And David said to Abimelech, the priest, The king gave me orders, and said to me, Let no man see anything about which I am sending you, with which I have given orders to you and to the servants. So I have given orders to my servants in a certain place.
But I have hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you quickly, so that I may be glad when I see what you are doing.
And they were troubled and troubled for eighteen years, all those who were living on the other side of the Jordan in the land of the Amorites in Gilead.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on him, crushing him as he would have taken a young goat, and had nothing in his hand; but he did not make clear to his father or his mother what he had done.
And David had faith in David, saying, He has given his people Israel to shame, and he will be my servant for ever.
So Israel and the Philistines were ready for war, with a band of war.
And again he gave orders to this day, saying, Today, if you give ear to his voice, do not make your heart stiff.
And when I saw that you did not keep me safe, I put my life in my hand and went over against the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into my hands: why then have you come up to me today?
And every priest is the Sabbath day by day, and a regular offering, and without sin;
And the Philistines came together and went and put up their tents in Dothan; and Saul went together together with all Israel, and they put up their tents in Gilboa.
For he has a greater glory than Moses; how much more he who has made it greater than the house.
Then say to him, Long life to you, and let it go well with you, with your house and with all that is yours.
For you have not come to the mountain which was to be touched, and to be burned with fire, or to be dark, and dark, and storm,
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the overseers and servants,
And Jabez went out to the town of Sisera, and said to him, Come, my lord, be turned to me; do not be troubled. And he came into the tent, and covered him with a band.
For we have not a high priest who may not be touched with the feeling of our diseases, but was in all points as we are, but without sin.
And they said to him, See, he is slow to take care of it. And he said, It is not right for a man to say what is right. So they took him and put him to death at the Jordan across the Jordan. And at that time forty-two thousand of Ephraim fell down.
And Jonathan said to David, My father Saul is attempting to put you to death; now take care of yourself; in the morning you are to have rest in the secret place and cover yourself.
From there they went through the hill-country of Ephraim; and when they came to the house of Michmas,
So now, give up the men, the rest of the men in Gibeah, so that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel: but Benjamin would not give ear to the voice of their brothers, the children of Israel.
And he said, Against whom have you put a attack on this day? And David said, About the south of Judah, and against the south of the Aramaeans, and against the land of the Kenites.
For they have been made priests without an oath, but he has made an oath by him, saying, The Lord made an oath and will not change his mind: You are a priest forever, as the order of Melchizedek.
So then, my brothers, be glad in the Lord, to put in writing the same things to you; for it is not hard for me, but for you it is safe.
This is what the Lord of armies has said: I have seen what Amalek did to Israel, how he went up against him on the way when he came up out of Egypt.
So in the day of the fight there was no sword or spear in the hands of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and his son Jonathan had them.
For this is what we have to say, and it is hard for us to say, because you have become a hater of the flesh.
So David went in secret in the field; and when the new moon came, the king took him down to take food.
And Saul said, Give me the burned offering and the peace-offerings. And he made the burned offering go up.
And he said to his servant, Come, let us go near one of these places; let us keep the night in Gibeah or in Ramah.
And from the first day till now.
And when his servants gave orders to David these words, it seemed good to David to be the son of the king, and the days had not come to the end.
And they said to him, Give a question, that we may say of God, that we may see if our way is right.
And the sound of the horn and the voice of words, which those who had ears to say were false, would not give word to them any more.
And they went on from there to Mount Ephraim and came to the house of Micah.
And Judah went up, and the Lord gave salvation to the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands; and they overcame ten thousand men.
Now a man of God came to him, and said to him, This is what the Lord says: Have I not made myself clear to the house of your father when they were in Egypt under Pharaoh's house?
And the man got up, he and his wife, and his young men, and his young man, and his father's father, his father's father, said to him, See, the day has come to the evening; let the night be full of rest, and let your heart be glad, and let your heart be glad, and you have come to your tents early.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See not on his face, or on the high place of his body: for I have put an end to him, and I have no judge in the eyes of man: for man sees those things which are seen, but the Lord sees the heart.
And they are not to give teaching to his neighbour, and to every man his brother, saying, Have knowledge of the Lord: for all have knowledge of me, from the least to the greatest.
For they went up out of Egypt, and Israel went through the waste land to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And when the words which David had given, they gave them orders before Saul, and he sent for him.
And she got up and put on her face to the earth, and said, See, let your servant be a servant to keep the feet of the servants of my lord.
And her husband got up and went after her, to give her a blessing, with his servant and two asses, and took him into her father's house; and when the girl's father saw him, he was glad to see him.
Now if there was a division in the order of the Levites, then the people had the law, and there was no need for the priest to get up in the order of Melchizedek, and not to be numbered by the order of Aaron.
And Samuel was sleeping till the morning, opening the doors of the house of the Lord, and Samuel was overcome with fear of the vision.
And after whom did the king of Israel go out? after whom do you go after me? and after a dead dog, what is it?
So I gave him to the Lord as long as he is living, and he gave worship to the Lord.
And this is to you the sign which is coming to your two sons, to be the chief of them, the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, in one day.
And Saul said, There will not a man be put to death this day; for today the Lord has done salvation in Israel.
Now faith is waiting for things which are waiting for, a certain thing which is not seen.
Then David came to a quiet cry to Abimelech the priest, and Ahimelech came to David with fear and said to him, Why are you alone, and no one with you?
For this is the agreement which I will give to the children of Israel after those days, says the Lord: I will put them in their hearts and put them on their hearts, and I will be to them for God, and they will be my people.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she gave a loud voice, and the woman said to Saul, Why have you tricked me? even you are Saul.
And when Israel became strong, they put the Canaanites to forced work, but they did not send them out.
In these last days have been given to us in a Son, whom he had given over all things to all things, through whom also he made the world.
And David was in the waste land, in the strong places, and in the hill-country in the waste land of Ziph; and Saul kept looking for him, but God did not give him into his hands.
For the law is changed, and there is no division in the law.
And Saul said, Send me between my son Jonathan, and Jonathan is taken.
And the Lord will give Israel over with you into the hands of the Philistines; and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me; and the Lord will give the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
For he put his life in his hands, and overcame the Philistines, and the Lord made a great salvation for all Israel: and you saw it and were glad; why then will you sin against a man without cause, and put him to death without cause?
And the king said to the men who were waiting for him, Go and put to death the priests of the Lord, for their hands are with David, because they had knowledge that he was running away, and they gave it to me: and the king's servants would not put out their hands against the priests of the Lord.
Now the upright are living by faith: but if any man comes back, my soul will have no pleasure in him.
But David was living in the waste land in the waste land; and he was still in the hill-country of Ziph, in a garden of wood, and Saul was waiting for him for ever; but the Lord gave him not into his hands.
And he took the people down to the water, and the Lord said to the rod, Let every man who goes after the water of the water like a dog, let him be holy, and everyone who puts his hands on his knees to drink.
The Lord makes poor and makes wealth; he makes low and makes low.
And he took away Amalek, the king of Amalek, and overcame all the people with the sword.
For if we keep on sinning by taking the knowledge of the truth, there is no longer any sin for sin.
And all the trees say to the thorns, Come, rule over us.
And Saul put his spear on him to put him to death; and Jonathan was certain that his father had put David to death.
Say to all your rulers, and to all the saints, and to the chief music-maker.
And they gave orders to Sisera, the son of Abinadab, to go up to Mount Tabor.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not go back with you, for you have turned away from the word of the Lord, and the Lord has taken away from you king over Israel.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have given ear to the voice of the Lord, and I will go on the way which the Lord has sent me; and I will take away Amalek, the king of Amalek, and take away Amalek.
And he sent out quickly to his young men, and said, Take your sword and put me to death, so that I might be put to death by a woman. And he did as he was ordered and put him to death.
And it came about that she was seated under the top of the wall between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went up to her for a decision.
And they said to the men who were coming, This is what you are to say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, Tomorrow you have faith in the heat of the sun. And the men of Jabesh-gilead came and say to the men of Jabesh-gilead,
And she said to him, My father, you made an oath to the Lord: do to me what has gone out of your mouth: for the Lord has given you the punishment of your haters, the children of Ammon.
And having a vessel of gold, and the ark of the agreement was covered with gold, in which was a gold pot which had manna, and the rod of Aaron, which had been put in flower, and the tables of the agreement.
And Saul said, Am I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin, why do you say so to me?
Now the Lord had made clear to Samuel the day before Saul came, saying,
Now as for Zebah and Zalmunna, with their armies, were about fifteen thousand men, and all those who were left of all the army of the east; and there was one hundred thousand men who took the sword.
And on that day I will give effect to what I have said against his house, from the first to the end.
And the people came back to the tent-circle, and the responsible men of Israel said, Why has the Lord put us to death before the Philistines? let us take the ark of the agreement of the Lord from Shiloh, and let it come among us, so that it may be safe from our haters.
No, my sons, the news is not good that I am hearing the news of the Lord.
And when you give ear to what they say, then your hands will be made strong, and you will go down safely to the tents of the armed men. And he went down with his servant to the tent-circle, where the men were watching.
And at Beth-shemesh they got their grain in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark and was glad to see it.
And all Israel, from Dan to Beer-sheba, saw that Samuel was a prophet of the Lord.
And there came an angel of the Lord, and he was seated under a great tree in Ophrah, which was to Joash, the son of Abital; and his son put the grain on the grain-floor to cover it from the Midianites.
But now, my sin, come back with me, so that I may give worship to the Lord.
Which is a story of the time, which is given by fire and offerings, which may not be given to the sense of the man's heart, to make him clean, and to take food and drink;
But truly, as the Lord, the God of Israel, is living, who has kept me from hurting you, if only you had come quickly and come to me, there was no man who had been given to the man of Nabal who was the sinner.
For he was waiting for the building of the town, and the builder of the building was God.
And they went over to the hill-country of Ephraim, and went to the house of Micah.
And they said, What is the cause of the sin offering which we may come back to him? And they said, Five of gold, and five of gold, and five of the beasts of the Philistines; for one disease was on you all, and on your heads.
And she was weeping before him for seven days; and on the seventh day it came to her, and it came to pass on the seventh day, because she made him hard, and gave the sense to the children of her people.
According to all their works, they have done from the day that I took them out of Egypt till this day: as they have turned away from me, and have gone to strange gods, so do they to you.
And David said to Abner, Are you not a man of war? and who is like you in Israel? why have you not kept your lord the king? for one of the people has come to destruction against the king your lord.
Keep in mind the prisoners, as though you were a prisoner, in memory of the cruel things, as though you yourselves are cruel in the body.
And they said, What one is there among the tribes of Israel who came not up to the Lord? And see, there was no one to the tent-circle from Gilead to the meeting.
But if you still do evil, you and your king will be wasted.
And to the Son, O God, is your seat, O God, for ever; the rod of righteousness is the rod of your kingdom.
And the name of the wife of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of Abner, the son of Ner, the father of Saul,
For this reason Jesus, so that he might make the people holy through his blood, without the door.
For they are all looking for themselves, not the things of Jesus Christ.
But if they say, Come up to us, and we will go up: for the Lord has given them into our hands, and this is the sign for us.
Take him, then, in the Lord, with all joy and with all joy;
And the people would not give ear to the voice of Samuel; and they said, No, but there will be a king over us.
And when Bela went to Gaza, he saw a harlot and went in to her.
And I will take away their sin and their wrongdoing, and I will take no memory of any more.
And while he was talking to them, the man of war, whose name was Goliath the Philistines, came up out of the holes of the Philistines, saying, As he had before, and David gave ear to his words.
Now see and take note of what you are to do: for evil is turned against our master, and against all his family; and he is a sinner, and there is no one to say to him.
They will be cut off, but you will be increased, and all are old as a robe.
And after Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, See, the man of whom I said to you, this man will rule over my people.
Have mercy on your servant, for you have taken your servant into a agreement with you: but if there is any wrong in me, put me to death; why do you take me to your father?
And they gave news to David, saying, See, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and they take away the grain-floor.
And fire was burning in the fire; and he sent out to the grain grain of the Philistines, burning up a mass of grain, even to the vine-garden, and to the fertile place.
And he was crying to the Lord for help against Midian.
And I will not send out from before them any of the nations which Joshua went away when he came to death:
For not to angels he gives help, but he gives help to the seed of Abraham.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he made them put them in flight into the hands of Shushan, king of Aram; and the children of Israel had been put to death for eight years.
And may my God give up all your desire for his wealth in Christ Jesus.
For he put his life in his hand, and overcame the Philistines; and the Lord gave a great victory for all Israel; and you saw it and were glad: why then will you sin against the blood of the evil-doer, to put David to death without cause?
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months; and she went, she and her friends, weeping bitterly on the hills.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days, saying, Am I still to go out to fight against the children of Benjamin my brother, or will I put an end? And the Lord said, Go up, for tomorrow I will give them into your hands.
And the children of Israel went back from pursuing the Philistines, and took away their tents.
But if you are not able to make it clear to me, you are to give me thirty linen robes and thirty robes of clothing. And they said to him, Give your sense, let us give ear to it.
And the children of Israel were crying to the Lord, for he had nine hundred war-carriages of iron, and he made the children of Israel hard for twenty years.
And she said to him, My father, if you have open your mouth to the Lord, do to me what has come out of your mouth: because the Lord has taken away your haters, the children of Ammon.
For we are the circumcision, those who worship by the Spirit of God, and have glory in Christ Jesus, and have no faith in the flesh;
And the two wives of David were taken away, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
And Saul sent his kingdom over Israel, making war against all his haters, against Moab, against the children of Ammon, and against the children of Ammon and Edom and the Philistines; and he overcame them.
Who being in the form of God, thought it not wrong with God:
And on the eighth day there was a division of the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew, a Hebrew, and a Pharisee.
Not one of you is looking for your own interests, but one another for another.
And the Philistines were fighting against Israel; and the men of Israel went in flight from the Philistines, and they were wounded in Mount Gilboa.
And the Lord will give Israel with you into the hands of the Philistines, and you and your sons with me; and the tents of Israel will be given into the hands of the Philistines.
And when the time came about, she became pregnant and gave birth to a son, and she named him Samuel, saying, Because I have made a request to him from the Lord.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, We are like Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom you have said sharp words against me, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, so that we may give food to your men who are tired?
May the Lord judge between me and you, and may the Lord take care of you; but my hand will not be on you.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and in those days the tribe of Dan was searching for themselves, because they had no part among the tribes of Israel.
And how will we get away if we are free from this salvation, which is the first word of the Lord, which has been made clear to us by those who have given ear;
Even so Christ did not give glory to himself to be a chief priest, but it was he who said to him, You are my son; today I have become your father.
And they will make request for your peace, and give you two cakes, which you may get from their hands.
Now the Spirit of the Lord went away from Saul, and the spirit of the Lord was troubled by the Lord.
A man who has no knowledge of Moses's law will have no pity on the word of two or three witnesses;
For in that which he himself has suffered and has been tested, he is able to give help to those in need.
Be awake, O woman of Israel, awake! awake, awake, and give up a song; get up and take away your prisoners, you son of Abinadab.
And David said to him, Have you come to this company? And he said, Give me word by God, that you may not put me to death or give me into my master's hands, and I will send you to this band. And David made an oath to him.
Then all the children of Israel and all the people went up and came to Beth-el, weeping and seated there before the Lord, and went without food till evening; and they gave burned offerings and peace-offerings before the Lord.
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Do not stop crying to the Lord our God, that he will keep us safe from the Philistines.
For it is necessary for him to undergo pain from the foundation of the world, but now he was seen in the end of the world to put away sin by the offering of himself.
And he was pleased with the man, and was to him as one of his sons.
And the land of the Amorites from the slope of Akrabbim, from the rock and over up.
And her wise women said to her,
For this reason it was necessary for the teaching of the things in heaven, to be made clean with these offerings; but the things which are in heaven are to be made clean with them, than these.
And Zebulun was a people of deceit to death, and of Naphtali, on the high places of the field.
And turning away there, they came to the house of the Levites, to the house of Micah, and said to him how he was doing.
And David was living in the waste land, in the hill-country, and in the hill-country, in the waste land of Ziph; and Saul was searching for him all the days, and God did not give him into his hands.
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did what was right for himself.
And when they had news to Sisera, the son of Abinadab, the son of Abinadab, had gone up to Mount Tabor,
So David and his men went to Keilah, and made war with the Philistines, and took their cattle and put them to death with a great slaughter. And David kept the people of Keilah.
And when Saul was questioning the Lord, the Lord gave him no answer, not by dreams, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And before the light of God went out in the house of the Lord, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was put down to sleep;
And after him there was a son of war, and he went after him; and he put to death six hundred Philistine Philistines with an ox and Israel.
And Jonathan said to David, Saul my father is looking for you to put you to death: now, I say to you, take care of yourself in the morning, and keep in a secret place, and take cover.
And when David came back from striking the Philistines, Abner took him and took him before Saul, and the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And they put him in the land of his heritage in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the hill-country of Gaash.
And he gave them orders to the door of the town; and they overcame the town with the sword, and the man and all his family were sent away.
And she said, Not so, my lord: for I am a very bitter woman, and have no wine or wine or a strong drink; but I have given my soul before the Lord.
And as for Zebah and Zalmunna, saying, Up and fall on us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And put on to shame all the ornaments of Zebah and Zalmunna, and put the ornaments on their camels.
The Lord will judge between me and you, and the Lord will send punishment on me; but my hand will not be on you.
And when he had a number of wives, he had a number of wives.
And David said, See, the king's spear! Let one of the young men go over and get it.
And the children of Israel got up and went up to Beth-el, questioning God, and said, Who will go up for us to fight against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said, Judah will go up first.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said, I have been put to death with the sharp teeth of an ass; I have put to death a thousand of an ass.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, and put out the three sons of Anak from there.
And David came to the two hundred men who had been tired, and they were not able to go after David; and he had given orders to them at the stream or in the river; and they came out to see David and the people who were with him. And David came to the people at peace.
And the Holy Spirit gives witness to us.
But he went after the war-carriages and went after the army; and all the people of Sisera came down with the sword, and there was no one left.
In addition to the cutting of the grain-blades, and for the cutting of the pots, and for the meat-hooks, and for the grain-blades, and for the cutting of the grain-instrument.
And the Philistines had news that the children of Israel had come together to Mizpah; and the chiefs of the Philistines went up against Israel, and the children of Israel gave ear to fear before the Philistines.
And David put his hand in his bag, and took a stone and put it on it, and overcame the Philistines in his brow, and the stone went down into his brow, and he was falling on his face to the earth.
You have not been able to give up your blood against the blood of your blood.
And the spirit of the Lord was on Saul, and he was seated in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was with his hand.
And he went back to Ramah, for his house, and there he was there for Israel; and there he made there an altar to the Lord.
For this reason he is able to give salvation to those who go near to God through him, seeing that he is ever living for them.
And he let them go into the town, and they overcame the town with the sword; but they let the man and all his family go.
And the Philistines were fighting, and Israel was overcome, and every man went in flight to his tent; and there was a very great slaughter, and there were thirty thousand footmen.
And all this people will see that the Lord has no salvation with the sword and the spear: for the Lord is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands.
For the chiefs of Israel have taken the lead in Israel; for the people have given themselves freely, blessing is the Lord.
And David put them to death from the evening even till evening; and there was not a man of them, even four hundred young men, horsemen on camels and running away.
But his wife said to him, If the Lord was pleased to put us to death, he would not have given us a burned offering and an offering at our hands, or would he have given us all these things, or at this time, or at this time.
And Samuel became old, and the Lord was with him, and not one of his words went to the earth.
And David said, What have I done? is there no cause to say anything?
Now Hananiah had a word in her heart; but her lips were moved, but her voice was not in her voice; and, awaking, she was made drunk.
And Samuel sent the people together to the Lord at Mizpah.
And when the children of Ammon had made war against Israel, the responsible men of Gilead went to get out of the land of Tob,
But if I say to the young man, See, the arrows are greater than you; go on your way; for the Lord has sent you away.
For it is impossible for the blood of the ox and of the goats.
And the servants of Saul said to him, This is what David said.
And the name of that place was named, The place of weeping and weeping; and there they gave offerings to the Lord.
Now Saul was talking by David's face, because the Lord was with him, and had gone away from Saul.
And he overcame the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of the Lord, with seventy men and fifty thousand men; and the people were sad because the Lord had given the people a great slaughter.
I am able to do all things in him who gives me strength.
And Zebulun did not waste the people of Keilah and Nebo; but the Canaanites were living among them, and became their work.
Now go and take away Amalek, and put an end to all that they have, and take away all that they have, and take every man and woman, the child and the child, the ox and the sheep and the camel and the ass.
And wisdom came to Mizpah, to his house; and his daughter came out to see him with timbrels and dancing; for she was only child, and had no son or daughter but her.
But the high priest only a year, without any blood, which he gives for his heritage and the people's knowledge:
And I say to you, that you may be an instrument of value to those women who have worked for me in the good news of the good news, with virtue and with other workers, whose names are in the book of life.
And Saul and Jonathan his son and the people who were living with them were living in Geba Geba; and the Philistines were at Michmash.
And may the God of peace, who has come back from the dead, the keepers of the flock, our Lord Jesus Christ, in the blood of the eternal testament,
How may we take wives for those who are left, because we have made an oath by the Lord that we will not give our daughters to women?
And Jotham quickly went in flight and went to Beer-sheba, where his brother Abimelech was living.
And they gave no mercy to the house of Hambaal, as the Lord had done for Israel.
And when the Philistines got up and came to David, David went in flight and went in flight to the army to see the Philistines.
And they went back to the house of the young man, the Levite, the house of Micah, and made search for his welfare.
You are responsible for the training of the training of God; for who is the son of the training of the father?
And every priest is to keep his work in the day of his work, and he gives a number of sin to the priest, to keep away from sin.
And the child Samuel grew on, and was pleased with the Lord and with men.
For not into the holy places made with hands made by the Christ, but in the same way, but in the heaven itself, to be seen before God.
Then the angel of the Lord came and took his seat under the tree which was in Ophrah, to Joash, the son of the Maacathite, and put the grain on his son, cutting out the grain in the wine, to get away from the Midianites.
There is not a limit for the first word, because of the feeble and unchanged.
And the chiefs of the Philistines said to him, What are these Hebrews? And he said to the chiefs of the Philistines, Do you not have knowledge of David, who was the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, and has been with me for a long time or years, and I have seen no wrong in him, from the day when he has gone in flight to me till this day?
And Jonathan said good of David to Saul his father, and said to him, Do not let the king sin against his servant, against David, because he has not done evil against you, and because of his works.
And the Philistines came by morning and evening, and took their place forty days.
You may not only be my life, but I will have mercy on the Lord, and I will not be put to death.
So that by two change of things, in which it was impossible for us to be false, we might have a strong comfort, who have gone in flight to take the hope which is waiting before us.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See, I will do a thing in Israel: and when the ears of every one who has ears of hearing it will be on his head.
And when Saul had news that David had become certain, and the men who were with him, Saul was living in Gibeah, under the field in Ramah, and his spear in his hand, and all his servants were waiting by him.
According to all the works which they have done from the day when I took them up out of the land of Egypt even to this day, because they have gone away from me, and have gone after other gods to you.
And the cloud of smoke went up from the town in a cloud, and Benjamin turned back, and the whole town went up in smoke.
And they went out to see him, and said to him, Come in to me, my lord, do not fear: for he went in to her tent and covered her with a robe.
So David overcame the land, and did not go away from a man or a woman; and he took the sheep and the oxen and the asses and the camels and the clothing; and he went back and came to his face.
And he made an offering to Eglon, king of Moab, and he was a very fat man.
For for six years Israel was judged for six years; and laughing came to the last of Gilead and was put to death in the towns of Gilead.
And David was living in the waste country in the walled places, and was still in the hill-country in the waste land of Ziph; and Saul was looking for him every day, but God gave him not into his hands.
And the Lord has done this to you, as he said by me: and the Lord has put the kingdom out of your hand and gave it to your neighbour, even to David.
Do all things without protest and argument.
And David enquired of the Lord, saying, Am I to go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go and attack the Philistines and give them to the rest of Keilah.
Then Samuel took a stone and put it between Mizpah and burning it, and gave it the name of the Lord, saying, The Lord has given us help till now.
And Samuel said to the cooked cook, Take the heritage which I gave you, what I said to you, Keep it with you.
And Deborah said, Up! for this is the day when the Lord has given you to Sisera in your hands. Is not the Lord gone out before you? And when he went down from Mount Tabor and ten thousand men after him,
So Saul went back from the pursuit of David, and went to see the Philistines; and they gave him the name of the Rock.
And Saul went away from the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
And the children of Benjamin had news that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, What is this evil?
And Saul said nothing that day, for he thought that it might be done to him, that he was not clean or clean.
And the Lord will not give up his people for his great name, because the Lord has made an oath to you that you may be his people.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, He is ill.
And put out the power of the fire, and let the sword go out of the mouth of the sword, and be strong in war, and be strong in the fight, causing the tents of the living men.
And the hope of Israel will not be false, and the hope of Israel will not be changed: for he is not a man, so that he may be turned back.
And Jonathan gave an oath again to David, because he had love for him: for he loved him as he loved himself.
My heart has love for the chiefs of Israel, O my heart, O you who are upright in your hearts, give praise to the Lord.
And the priest said to them, Go in peace: the Lord is before you on the way you will go on.
The stem of his spear was like a weaver's rod, and the weight of his spear was about six hundred iron: and he went before him.
And they made clear to Sisera, the son of Abinadab, and they went up to Mount Tabor.
And the Spirit of the Lord will come on you, and you will be a prophet to them, and you will be turned into another man.
But the Lord said to Samuel, See not on his face, or on the high place of his body, because I have not kept him: for the Lord sees not as man sees: for man is looking on the face, but the Lord is looking on the heart.
And if you do evil, you and your king will be wasted.
And the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, for he had nine hundred war-carriages of iron, and he was very cruel to the children of Israel twenty years.
And David made a cry to the people and to Abner, the son of Ner,
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to the voice of the people in everything they say to you: for they have not turned away from you, but they have turned away from me, so that I may not be king over them.
So she went away from him, and went back to her father's house in Beth-lehem, and stayed with him four months.
So David went away from there and went to the rock of Adullam; and when his brothers and all his father's house had news, they went down to him there.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did what was right in his eyes.
In the holy place, a servant and the true House, which the Lord has put up and not man,
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ with your spirit.
And they came into Micah's house, and took the image and the ephod and the images and the metal image and the metal image. And the priest said to them, What do you do?
And when Abigail saw David, she went quickly and got down from the ass, falling on her face before the face of David, and falling on her face to the earth.
For our Apostle is in heaven, from which we are waiting for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
And the children of Dan sent out five men of their families out of their number, and Zorah and Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to spy out the land: and they said to them, Go and see the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and put the night there.
For if the blood of the goats and the oxen and the ashes of the cow make unclean the unclean, making holy to the flesh,
The river of the river was driving them away, the river of old, the river of the river; O my soul, you have been crushed by strength.
And Saul gave orders to his servants, saying, Say to David, See, the king has delight in you, and all his servants have love for you, and now be the son-in-law of the king.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it, and gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
Why do you make your hearts hard, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh made their hearts hard? and when he had done great things among them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
For he says, You are a priest for ever, after the order of Malchijah.
And ten thousand, ten thousand, came against the men of Israel; but they had no knowledge of that evil was near them.
And he said to him, What is the word that the Lord has said to you? I say to you, Do not keep it from me. May God do so, and so be it, and so will it be, if you keep secret from me all those who were given to you.
In the past the man in Israel said to him, Come, let us go to the prophet, for the prophet's name is the prophet's.
And now I have news that you are cutting off wool: now your keepers who were with us, we did not give them trouble, and there was no loss to them, all the time when they were in Carmel.
And he put his faith in the land, living in the land, with Isaac and Jacob, the sons of Israel.
And the people gave worship to the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the old men who were waiting for Joshua, who saw all the great work of the Lord which he had done to Israel.
And the Philistines came by morning and evening, and took their place forty days.
And all Israel had news that Saul had put the army of the Philistines, and that Israel was disgusting to the Philistines; and the people went together after Saul to Gilgal.
And Sarah herself gave birth to a child, and was given birth to a child when she was old, because she had faith in his word.
And they took the image of Micah and the priest, and came to a quiet and quiet people, and put them to the sword and burned the town with fire.
And the angel of the Lord came to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, you strong man.
For this cause I sent him quickly; so that he might see him again, you may be glad, and I may be without sorrow.
But if you do not give ear to the voice of the Lord, but have been turned against the orders of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you, as it was against your fathers.
And he was living in the land by faith, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, with the heritage of God.
And turning from him to another, he said the same way; and the people made answer to him after the first way.
Then Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to put your oil on you as king over his people Israel; and then, give ear to the words of the Lord.
And let us take note of one another to make love and good works.
And the trees say to the fig-tree, Come, rule over us.
Who among the angels has said at any time, Sit at my right hand till I make your haters the footstool of your feet?
Then David went in flight from the town of Ramah, and said before him, What have I done? what is my crime and what is my sin before your father that he is attempting to put me to death?
And Samuel said, Has the Lord had delight in the burned offerings and offerings of offerings to the voice of the Lord? See, it is better than a grain offering, to give attention than the fat of sheep;
And he went to give birth, and said, Here I am, for you have sent for me. And he said, I have no name: go back, sleep. And he went and lay down.
All the training seem for the present to be no joy but hard, but later it gives salvation to those who have been ruled by it.
And his master said to him, I will not go into the town of another nation who are not of the children of Israel, but I will go on to the town of Geba.
And they came to an end, and made a fight against him, and overcame the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
I am numbered of all things, but the knowledge of Jesus Christ my Lord: for whom I have undergone the loss of all things, so that I may be numbered as waste, so that I may be Christ.
But I am in an end between the two, having the desire to go away and be with Christ, who is far better.
Do not so, my sons, for it is no good thing that I have to say, that you may make the people of the Lord sin.
And the men of Israel went out after the Philistines and made them put to death till they came to the town of Beth-hoglah.
And the weight of the king's request was a thousand seven hundred shekels of gold, in addition to the ornaments and jewels and clothing of the kings of Midian, and in addition to the chains of gold which were round the camels.
Go and cry to the gods which you have fixed: they will keep you safe in the time of your trouble.
And he said to his servants, See, you see the man's mind: why did you send him to me?
And the priest said to them, Go in peace, before the Lord your way in which you go.
And she made a word, saying, O Lord of armies, if you will have mercy on the sorrow of your servant, and will keep me in mind, and will keep me from memory of your woman-servant, and give to your servant-girl a male child, I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and a great razor will never be on his head.
And he made himself a twoedged sword with a cord in the middle of the hand, and put it on his robe on the right leg.
But you will not take away your mercy from my house for ever; and you will not cut off the haters of David from the face of the earth.
And the children of the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, had gone up out of the town of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the waste land of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and were living with the people.
And I took him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my place with burning perfumes, burning perfumes to me and put the ephod before me; and I gave to your father's house all the offerings of the children of Israel.
And the child Samuel grew on, and was pleased with the Lord and with men.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the eyes of the Lord, and gave worship to the Baals and Ashtaroth and the gods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and turned away from the Lord, and did not do it.
And Phinehas his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was near to be given birth. And when she had news of the news that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband was dead, she gave birth to herself and gave birth, because her pain came on her.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have done wrong: do you to us after all that is good in your eyes: only give us our prayer, O this day.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it come back to its place, so that it may not be put to death or our people. For all the town was full of fear in all the town, and the hand of God was very hard.
And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died at the time of one hundred and ten years.
Who, being in the form of God, did not give thought to God in the form of God;
And Deborah, the son of Abinadab, said,
Now there was a certain man of Saul's servants who were there that day, waiting before the Lord, and his name was a god of Edom, chief of the herdmen of Saul.
And Ephraim did not send out the Canaanites who were living in Gezer; but the Canaanites were living in Gezer with them.
And Saul's wrath was burned against Jonathan, and he said to him, You son of a twisted woman, do I not see that you have taken the son of Jesse to your shame, and to the shame of your mother's shame?
And now are you better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab? has he been fighting against Israel, or has he been fighting against them?
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he was put to death with his sword and put his death with him.
For truly, as the Lord, the God of Israel, is living, who has kept me from hurting you, if you had quickly come to me quickly, there was no one to be left to the man of the sinner by the day of the light.
And now, this is what we are going to do to the town of Gibeah.
For if a man goes before his face, he is taken away because of his weakness and of nothing.
Then Saul said to his servants, Take your sword and put me in the way with it, so that these uncircumcised men may come and make me come through, and make sport of me. But his arms would not come, for he was troubled. So Saul took his sword and put his face on it.
And the Lord said to the people, Give them up to the water, and I will make them go down to the water, and I will make them search for you there, and I will say to you, This is what I say to you: the same will go with you; and whoever I say to you will not go with you; the same will not go with you.
And the people made answer to him, saying, So will it be done to the man who puts him to death.
But the king of the children of Ammon had not given ear to the words of laughing which he sent to him.
I have not sinned against you, but you have done me wrong against me: O Lord, judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And the Lord said to him, I will certainly be with you, and you will put an end to Midian as one man.
And the word was evil in the eyes of Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord.
And God had given ear to the voice of Adam; and the angel of God came back to the woman as she was seated in the field, but her husband was not with her.
And all the children of Israel went out, and the tents came together as one man from Dan to Beer-sheba and the land of Gilead, to the Lord at Mizpah.
And he went up from there to Peniel, and said to them, As the men of Succoth said to him,
And David got up, and his men were about six hundred men, and they went out from Keilah, going up and down where they went. And Saul had news that David had come out of Keilah, and had gone out.
Now you have knowledge of the sign of him, that as a son with the father is working with me in the good news.
And they said to him, See, you are old, and your sons do not go in your ways; now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
And she said, Go in peace; and let the God of Israel give your request to you.
Be full of joy in the Lord, and I will say, Be glad.
And as they were going down at the end of the town, Samuel said to Saul, Say to the servant, Let the servant go on before us. And he went before, and said, Be still still, that I may give you the word of God.
And he said to him, Where is your mouth that you said? Who is Abimelech, that we may serve him? Is not this the people whom you have made sport of? go out and fight against him.
And now, behold, the king is walking before you, and I have become old and delicate, and my sons, see that they are with you, and I have gone before you from my youth till this day.
So they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines and said, What may we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken over to Gath. And they took the ark of the God of Israel there.
But one has said, What is man, that you have no memory of him? or the son of man, that you take care of him?
And they put his arms in the house of the town of Ashtaroth, and put his body on the wall of Beth-shan.
For this is what the Lord has done to Jonathan, and he will give effect to it: when the evil of you is good to my father, I have uncovered your ear and sent you away, and you have gone in peace, and the Lord is with you as he was with my father.
But if a man goes to the image of Malchijah, and the priest becomes a priest,
Now the God of peace, who has come back from the dead, the great keeper of the flock with the blood of an eternal agreement, even our Lord Jesus,
And take these ten sticks to the captain of the thousand, and see your brothers to see how they are and take a debt to them.
The Lord makes poor and makes wealth; he makes low, and he is lifted up.
And he said to him, See, a man of God is in this town, and the man is honoured, and all that he says is true. So let us go there, if he will give us news of our journey on which we have gone.
And again there was still a word, and said, See, people are coming down from the high parts of the land, and another armed is coming by the way of the great tree.
But my true man is living by faith; but if he takes his back, he will not be pleasing to me.
And when David came back, after the death of the Philistines, Abner took him and took him before Saul, with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And Samuel was dead, and all Israel had sorrow for him, and they put him in the earth in Ramah, in his town; and Saul had put away the readers of spirits from the land.
And be certain that our brother Timothy has been sent, with whom I will see you, if he comes quickly.
Go now, make some more; see and see where he is and who has seen him there: for they have said to me, He is very deceit.
And you have knowledge of him, that as a child was a father, he gave me the good news.
These are the nations which the Lord went away to make Israel clear by them, even as a great number of Israel had not been seen in the land of Canaan.
And they said to him, No, but we will put you in flight and give you into their hands, but we will not put you to death. And they put him in two cords and took him up from the rock.
For he did not give orders to the representatives of the world, about which we say,
For he was still in the body of his father, and Malchijah came to see him.
And there were only the base of the house of Dagon in its place, and there was no longer the priests of Dagon, or any who went into the house of Dagon at Ashdod to this day.
For the earth is drinking the rain of the rain on it, and gives food to those on whom it is clothed, giving blessing from God:
And they took their daughters to their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons and served their gods.
So now go back and go in peace, that you may not be angry in your evil ways.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, took about three hundred snakes, and took lights and gave it to the tail and put a light in the middle of the two tails.
In the days of Shelomoth, the son of Jephunneh, in the days of Jabez, the traders had stopped in their tents, and they kept on the roads.
And Saul went to his house at Gibeah, and the army went with him whose heart God had touched.
Now then, take away my sin, and come again with me, so that I may give worship to the Lord.
And Saul said to the Lord, God of Israel, Give well; and Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people went out.
And he gave orders to the veil and the shade of the lights of heaven, as Moses had said when he came to the end of the House; for he said, See to it that you make all the design which was given you on the mountain.
And Samuel said to all the people, Have you seen him whom the Lord has chosen, that there is no one like him among all the people? And all the people said, Long live the king.
And David said to Saul, Your servant was his father's sheep, and there came a lion or a bear, and took a male sheep out of the flock.
And David said to the men who were standing by him, What is this to the man who overcame this Philistine, and has turned away the shame of Israel? for who is the man of the unclean Philistine, whom he has made sport of the care of the living God?
Do not be foolish in teaching, for by it some have no knowledge of angels.
O Lord, when you went out of Seir, when you went out of the land of Edom, the earth was moved, and the heavens dropped down, and the cloud dropped water.
And Caleb said, He who attacks Kiriath-sepher and took it, I will give my daughter Achsah to him.
And he said to his servant, Come, let us go near to one of these places; and we will be living in Gibeah or in Ramah.
And the chief of the earth, and the number of the first child in heaven; and to God, judge of all; and to the spirits of the upright, who are made upright,
To be teachers of the same way, because of the time, and again you have need of the things which are in the law of God; and you have need of milk and not of strong food.
In the morning the children of Israel got up and put up their tents at Gibeah.
And they said to him, Give a question to God, and let us see if our way is well on which we go.
And Samuel said, Let Amalek, the king of Amalek, come near to me. And he said, Truly, the bitter of death has been turned away.
And David said, As the Lord lives, the Lord will send him on; and his day will come to death, and he will go down to the sword and be cut off.
And Eber, the wife of Heber, the keeper of the field, took a peg in her hand, and went to him secretly and put the nail into his house, and it went through the earth; and he was sleeping when he was overcome, and he was dead.
And David was living in the waste land in the waste land, and went in a mountain in the waste land of Ziph; and Saul was looking for him every day, but God gave him not into his hands.
And now, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, what is true, what is right, whatever is pleasing, whatever is pleasing, what is good, and what is right, and what is right?
And when Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers were weeping to the Lord, the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, and they took your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And when she was still praying before the Lord,
But the people took part of the goods, sheep and oxen, and the chief part of the things which were given to the Lord your God at Gilgal.
He had thirty sons and thirty daughters; he sent thirty and thirty daughters to his sons, and he judges Israel for seven years.
And the hand of the children of Israel came forward, and overcame Jabin, king of Canaan, till they had taken away King Jabin of Canaan.
And he said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the earth.
For it is said, You are a priest for ever, as the order of Melchizedek.
For when God made a oath to Abraham, he made an oath by no greater, saying,
And he said to all Israel, You are on one side, and I and Jonathan my son are on another side. And the people say to Saul, What is good in your eyes?
And the woman came at dawn, and went down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light.
And she said to him, Give me a blessing, for you have put me in the land of the South, give me the springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
And he said to them, I will give you a sense of wonder, which if you say to me in the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty robes and linen robes:
And you have made an altar to the Lord your God on the top of this high place, by the agreement, and have taken the second ox and made it a burned offering with the wood of the high place which you have made.
See now how great this man is, to whom the father of our father Abraham gave a tenth of the first things.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to the voice of the people in all that they say to you: for they have not turned away from you, but have made me a king over them.
And he said to the men of Peniel, When I come back safely, I will be broken down.
So that he gave him all things to be like brothers, so that he might be a man of mercy and true priest, to make payment for the sins of the people.
Now Abimelech, the son of Jerub-baal, went to Shechem to his mother's brothers, talking with them and with all the family of his mother's father, saying,
And another priest came to another another, saying,
And he made a request for water, and gave him milk; and she gave him milk in the best vessel.
And be full of the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And when Saul saw the people, he was troubled, and his heart was greatly troubled.
And they said to the chiefs, Did you not go away from me and send me out of my father's house? why have you come to me now when you have trouble?
And the Philistines said to David, Am I a dog, that you may come to me with rods? And the Philistines cursed David by his gods.
And five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites and the Geshurites, and the Hivite living in Lebanon, from Mount Hermon as far as Hamath;
And the Lord overcame Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel were cut off in Benjamin on that day, twenty thousand men, and a hundred men; all these were coming to war.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses said, and put out from there the three sons of Anak.
Only fear the Lord, and keep him in the faith with all your heart; for see what great things he has done for you.
And Saul said to his father's brother, He has made clear to us that the asses were seen. And he did not make clear to the kingdom what Samuel said.
And the king was seated in his seat as before, and the seat by the wall, and Jonathan got up, and Abner was seated by Saul; but David's place was wasted.
So David went in secret in the field; and when the new moon came, the king was seated at the feast.
So that there may be no one who takes short of the grace of God, or the root of bitter feelings come up against you, and that the number of the people may be made unclean.
And Saul said to him, Whose son is you, young? And David said, I am the son of Jesse, the son of Jesse.
But now your kingdom will not go on; for the Lord has made for himself a man after his heart, and the Lord has made him ruler over his people, because you have not kept what the Lord has given you.
Now when the time came about at the time of the grain-cutting, she gave birth to a son, and named him Samuel, saying, Because I have made a request to him from the Lord.
Because of the good news from the first day till now.
And David went up from there to Mizpah, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother be with you till I see what God will do for me.
And the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they said, The daughter of Jonathan, the father of the sister of Edom, has taken his wife and give her to his friend. And the Philistines came up and burned her and her father with fire.
And this is what you will say: Long life is to you. Peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have.
And after that, the heart of David overcame him, because he had cut off the robe which was on Saul.
And Manasseh did not take away the people of Beth-shean and its daughter-towns, and the towns of Taanach and its daughter-towns, or the people of Dor and its daughter-towns, or the people of Ibleam and its towns, or the people of Megiddo and its towns; but the Canaanites were living in that land.
And he said to them, If you do this thing, I will be given punishment on you, and then I will put an end to you.
And when they gave it to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, lifting up his voice and said to them, Give ear to me, O men of Shechem, that God may give ear to you.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said, I have been put to death with the sharp part of an ass, and I have put to death a thousand.
And David saw that Saul had come out to get his life; and David was in the waste land of Ziph in the wood.
And David took her by the hand which she had given him; and he said to her, Go up in peace to your house; see, I have given ear to your voice, and I have given you your approval.
So they sent the ark of God to Ekron, and the ark of God came to Ekron, crying out, They have taken the ark of the God of Israel to us, to put us to death and to our people.
Only this day I went to get request of God for him. Far be it from me that the king would have no account of his servant or my father's house: for your servant has not had knowledge of this thing, little or great.
And the angel of the Lord stretched out the stick which was in his hand, and touched the meal and the unleavened cakes; and fire went up out of the rock and burned the meal and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of the Lord went out from his eyes.
And David said, The Lord, who put me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the mouth of the child, will give me salvation from the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said to David, Go, and the Lord is with you.
But now they are looking for a good land, that is, a man of heaven. So God is not shamed of them, to be named their God, for he has made ready for them a town.
By the new and living way which he has given to us by the veil, which is, his flesh;
For there is a sin of false witness, and of evil, and of false gods; because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, he will send you away from the king.
And the man, the lord of the house, went out to them and said to them, No, my brothers, do not do evil; see that this man has come into my house; do not do this.
And David made an oath, and said, Your father has knowledge that I have found grace in your eyes; and he says, Do not let Jonathan see this, or he will be sad: but truly as the Lord lives, and as your soul is life, there is only a way between me and death.
And the Lord was seen in Shiloh, for the Lord had given himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel, said to the Lord, Who will go up against us against the Canaanites, and will be the ruler of the war?
And the woman said to him, See, you have knowledge of all that Saul has done, and how he has taken away the wonder-workers and the readers of secret arts from the land: why then do you put a net for my life, to cause me to be put to death?
And the Philistines took the ark of God and came to Ashdod.
Let us go before the full hearts of faith, having our hearts dropped from an evil heart, and having our body washed with clean water;
And he had forty sons and the sons of thirty sons, and he went on his way on seventy ass, and he gave Israel punishment for eight years.
And I pray that your love may be increased more and more knowledge and all knowledge;
And when the young men of David came, they gave an account of the words of David's name to the sinner.
And they took food and drink and drink, and the girl's father said to the man, Be pleased, and let the night go, and let your heart be glad.
And they overcame Moab at that time about ten thousand men, every living man, and every man of war, and there was no one to get away from a man.
Because I will have mercy on their righteousness, and their sins and their wrongdoing will be cut off from me.
And there was a man in Maon who had much property in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand goats, and he was cutting off his sheep in Carmel.
Then the father of Saul said, Give ear to the words of Samuel and the words of Samuel.
And Saul made an altar to the Lord, the first altar which he made to the Lord.
For seven days he was waiting for the purpose of Samuel; but he did not come to Gilgal, and the army went away from him.
Every day, in all my request for you all, with joy for your prayer.
And the bowmen said to him, Do all things in your heart; be turned to you; see, I am with you as your heart is.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistines, he said to Abner, the captain of the army, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As your soul is life, I am unable to say.
And be good to you, and give grace to you, which have kept me this day from coming to take blood, and from taking my hand on myself.
And if you are separate from training, of which all have become part of it, then take care of others and not sons.
Now faith is the way of things which are waiting for, the things which are not seen.
And the vine said to them, Should I go out of my new wine, who says God and man, and go to and fro over the trees?
How much more, if the people had given food to this day of the goods of their haters which they had seen? would there not now have been a great slaughter among the Philistines?
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, got up from Keilah, went wherever they were able to go. And Saul said to Saul, David was taken from Keilah, and he went out.
Do not be turned away, for then you are to go after nothing, which is not able to get profit or give up; for they are false.
And when Samuel was dead, all Israel came together, weeping for him and put him in his house in Ramah. And David got up and went down into the waste land of Paran.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all the young men here? And he said, The young still is still still, and see, he is keeping care of the flock. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send him, for we are not able to go down till he comes here.
And the old man said, Peace be to you, for I will take care of you, but keep the night in the open square.
And when he went up, he went up the way of Nineveh, and went up to the east; and he went up against the army when it was taken away.
And David said, As the Lord lives, truly the Lord will send him on, or his day will come, and he will be put to death, and he will go down in the fight and be cut off.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, with David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David went in flight to get away from Saul, for Saul and his men were about David and his men.
And he sent representatives through Manasseh, and they came together after him; and he sent representatives to Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali; and they came up to them.
Now the children of the children of Ammon went up and put up their tents against Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Make a agreement with us, and we will be your servants.
I will not be cut off from my altar, but you will not let your eyes be troubled, so that all the parts of your house may be put to death as men.
And when you come into the town, you will get him quickly, before he goes up to the high place to take food: for the people will not take food till he comes, because he has given his blessing to those who are invited; and now go up, and you will get him.
And when he had made an end of offering the burned offering, then Samuel came out, and Saul went out to see him.
And from among the sons of Levi, who take the priesthood, have given orders to take a tenth of the people by the law, from their brothers, even though they come from Abraham's body:
Give my love to all those who have authority over you, and to all the saints: for they of Italy send your love.
And Samuel said to Saul, The Lord sent me to give you king over his people, over Israel: now give ear to the words of the Lord.
And the sons of David were Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they became their wives.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: for when Saul saw to be a man of war, he took him to himself.
Say, you who put on fair asses, and you who are seated in judging, and go in the way.
And when they were cruel to them, the responsible men of Gilead went to get out of the land of the land of Tob, to get care of them.
In numbers of families and of many ways, God of old, having said to the fathers in the prophets,
And he said to them, A man of war has done this, and he has made me his priest.
Now the men of Israel had made an oath in Mizpah, saying, We will not give his daughter Benjamin to wife.
And when the Philistine army was put to death, the Philistines had news of it, and the Philistines had news of it. And Saul sounded the horn in all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews give ear.
For where there is a agreement, the death of the evil-doer is to come in.
And when the children of Israel were dead, the children of Israel turned back again and went after the Baals, and gave up Baal named Baal.
But I make request to you to do this, so that I may be given back to you.
And he said to her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man comes up, covered with a robe. And when Saul saw that it was Samuel, he put his face on his face to the earth and gave him honour.
Give ear, O kings; give ear, O rulers: I will make a song to the Lord; I will make a song to the Lord, the God of Israel.
And he said, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel give your request to you.
And from there he went to the people of Debir, and the name of Debir before was Kiriath-sepher.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Do what seems good to you; be waiting till you have taken him up, for the Lord gives effect to his word. So the woman went in and gave her son to her son till she took his breast.
Which we have, as a mark of the soul, true and true, and coming into that inside the veil;
And ten thousand from all Israel came to the fight against Gibeah, and the war was very great: but they did not see that trouble was near them.
And the Philistines sent for the priests and the readers of arts, saying, What may we do with the ark of the Lord? give us orders to send it to its place.
And as Samuel was turning away to go away, he put on the robe of his robe, and it was broken.
And Abimelech was told that all the men of the town of Shechem were together.
But he would not say, I will not take food. But his servants made a request to him and the woman. So he got up from the earth and took his seat on the bed.
And to those in Aroer, and to those in En-dor and Eshtemoa,
But if I have been put out as a drink offering on the offerings and in your faith, I will be glad and be glad with you all.
For this reason, because the children are part of flesh and blood, he himself is in the same way in the same way, so that he might put to death him who had the power of death, saying, The Evil One.
And Judah took Gaza with its outskirts, and Ashkelon and Ekron with their outskirts.
And when the five chiefs of the Philistines saw it, they went back to Ekron the same day.
And he made a linen ephod for them, and put it in his town in the town of Ophrah; and all Israel went there a strange way after it, and it became a net for the king and his house.
So all the people went to Gilgal, and they made Saul king there before the Lord at Gilgal, and gave offerings of peace-offerings there before the Lord. And Saul was glad with all the men of Israel.
And the Lord said to him, Peace be to you: fear not: you will not be put to death.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out and came in before them.
And I will send you to the river of Sisera, the captain of the army of Jabin, with his war-carriages and his great army; and I will give him into your hands.
Do not let our work be turned away, as it is, but say to one another; and so much more, as you see the day coming.
And David went in flight and went to the town of King Samuel to Ramah, and gave him word to him all that Saul had done to him; and he and Samuel were living in Shimron.
And Saul, seeing David's voice, said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
Take a new cart and two young oxen which have never been a yoke on them, and let the ox be given to the oxen, and let their cattle go back to their place.
For this reason I was sad with that generation, and said, Let your hearts be turned away from your heart, and these have no knowledge of my ways.
He who had the law of Moses was dead without mercy under two or three witnesses;
Let us go into a true heart, full of faith, which is given to our hearts from a evil heart, and be washed like a clean water.
And Jonathan said to David, Whatever is your desire, I will do for you.
And the son of Ebed-melech said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we may serve him? is it not he, the son of Jerub-baal? Is not the men of Shechem, the father of Shechem, the father of Shechem?
In the past in Israel, when a man went to the purpose of God, he said, Come and let us go to the prophet; for he is a prophet in the past, in the past.
For this cause, when he comes into the world, he says, Give offerings and offerings to you, and make ready for me a body.
And Samuel sent the people together to the Lord at Mizpah.
So then, my brothers, be glad in the Lord, and to give you the same things which are not hard for me, but keep you safe.
And they put up their tents against them, cutting off the increase of the land till you came to Gaza; and no food of Israel or sheep or ox or ass.
And there were four hundred young women who had no knowledge of the bed of a man, and they took them to the tent-circle of Shiloh, to the land of Canaan.
And now, see and take note of what you are doing: for evil has been turned against our lord and against all his house, and he has a foolish son.
And David was living in the land of the Philistines one year and four months.
And I will send the young man, saying, Go and get the arrows. If I say to the boy, See, the arrows are on this side of you; take them and come; for there is peace to you and no damage, as the Lord lives.
If he says, It is well, your servant will have peace; but if he is angry, then it is clear to him that he has no evil.
And they went into the house of Micah, and took the image and the ephod and the images and the metal image; and the priest said to them, What are you doing?
And they came near before Saul and his servants, and they took food and got up and went on the night.
And Samuel said to the people, Do not be troubled: for you have done all this evil: have not turned away from the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart.
And Israel and the Philistines were ready to get ready.
Now after the death of Joshua, the children of Israel asked the Lord, saying, Who is to go up against us first against the Canaanite?
And when David had knowledge that he had evil designs against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Take the ephod.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman who was put to death, said, I came to the house of Benjamin, and I and my wife went into the night.
So that at the name of Jesus every knee should be made low, of those in heaven and on earth and under the earth;
And when Israel had seed, the Midianites and Amalek and the people of the east would come up against them.
For if they had thought of the land, they would have had enough time to come back.
And they took all the land of the Amorites from the Arnon to the Jabbok, and from the waste land to the Jordan.
And all the men of Israel, who were waiting for themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, have news that the Philistines had gone away, and they went after them in war.
And the children of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines and overcame them, till they came under Beth-shemesh.
And he said to them, Are you the responsible worshippers of Baal, that you make war for him? let him be put to death before the day light; if he is a god, let him be put to shame on him who has put down his altar.
Then Saul went up to the town of Amalek, and put an attack in the valley.
But this is an eternal priesthood for ever.
Will the rulers of Keilah put me in his hand? will Saul come down as your servant has news of? O Lord, the God of Israel, give your servant word to your servant. And the Lord said, He will come down.
But the men were not willing to give ear to him; and the man took his wife, and took her out to them, and they had sex with her; and they had sex with her all night till the morning; they let her go before the morning.
For we who have faith will come into that place, as he said, I have made an oath in my wrath, they will not go into my rest, though the works were ended from the foundation of the world.
For we have had news of good news to us, even as they did; but the word which they had heard did not profit them, because it was not true by those who had news.
And David said to Saul, Who am I? and what is my life or my father's family in Israel, that I may be a son to the king?
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers were weeping to the Lord, the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who took your fathers out of Egypt, and made them their living-place in this place.
And the children of Israel were crying to the Lord, for he had nine hundred war-carriages put to death, and for twenty years he had made them hard.
And they were stoning, and they were put to death; they were put to death, they were put to death with the sword: they went about in the skin of sheep, in the skin of wool, and in need of food, and troubled and cruel.
And the things which you have knowledge and has seen and seen in me, do these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
And David got up and went over, he and the six hundred men with him, the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
But if you are not able to make clear to me, you will give me thirty robes and thirty changes of clothing. And they said to him, Make your sense clear, that we may give ear to it.
Go after peace, and be holy, without any man to see the Lord.
For he who has come into his rest has rest from his works, as God did from his.
In the days of the grain-cutting, the son of the grain-cutting came to his wife, and said, I will go in to my wife's room. But her father would not let him go in.
Now the men of Israel were cruel to that day, because Saul had made the army take an oath, saying, Cursed be the man who takes any food till evening, when I will have on my haters for punishment. And no one of the people has tasted any food.
And they said, You have not done wrong with us or given us trouble, and you have not taken anything from the hands of any one.
For if Jesus had given them rest, he would have no more talking about another day.
And the men of the army made answer to Jonathan and his armor, and said, Come up to us, and let us see you. And Jonathan said to his servants, Come up after me, for the Lord has given them over to Israel.
And in the story of the children of Gilead was a strong man, and he was the son of a wife, and Gilead was the father of Japhlet.
And Jonathan gave an oath to David, because he had love for him: for he loved him as he loved himself.
And again, when he takes the first child into the world, he says, and let all the angels of God worship him.
And on the side of the valley, on the side of the valley, on the side of the valley of Moreh, he and all the people who were with him went up early and put up their tents by the water-spring.
And on that day they sent for him baal, saying, Let the god of Baal be to him, because he has broken down his altar.
So Israel sent representatives to Sihon, king of the Amorites, who was in Heshbon, and said to him, Let me go through your land to the river.
And he said, What have you done? And he said, Because I saw that the people were wandering from me, and that you had not come in the time of the time when the Philistines came together at Michmash;
For he was ill with death, but God had mercy on him, and not only on him only, but on me, so that I might not have sorrow on sorrow.
And they put his armor in the house of the Korahites, and put his body on the wall of Beth-Shan.
And one who was wiser than the other women, went back to her mother-in-law, saying,
For they, even for a short time, did what seemed good to them, being training, but he for profit, to get part of his circumcision.
For truly he gives no help to angels, but he gives help to the seed of Abraham.
And the men in the secret place were waiting for her in a room, and she said to him, The Philistines are on you, and put the bow in the middle of the earth as if it were in the fire, and the secret of his power was not seen.
God has given the chiefs of Midian to your hands Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with you? and their wrath was turned to him, as he had said.
So they went in flight and took him from there; and when he got up among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his arms and over.
And the king said to her, Have no fear; what have you seen? And the woman said to Saul, I saw gods going up out of the earth.
And it came to the end of David's faith, saying, He has done much evil to his people Israel: so he will be my servant for ever.
Do not let my lord the king seem for the evil man of the sinner: for he is a foolish man, and a foolish man is with him: but I your servant did not see your servants, my lord, whom you sent.
And the words which David had said are hearing before Saul, and he took him.
And the blessing of Elkanah and his wife said, The Lord give you seed of this woman for the debt which is given to the Lord; and they went to their place.
And over it the glory of the glory of the glory, and of which we have no sense.
And they say to the Lord, We have done wrong, because we have been turned away from the Lord, and have given worship to the Baals and to Ashtaroth and now to give us out of the hand of our haters, and we are your servants.
And he said to him, We are going from Beth-lehem to the hill-country of Ephraim, and I have come to Beth-lehem, to Beth-lehem, to the house of the Lord, and no one has taken me into his house.
And Bela, the son of Haran, went to the town of Gaza, and saw a harlot, and went in to her.
May God send punishment on the haters of David, and let him go back again with all his goods till the morning, not one male.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, for the ark of the agreement of God was there in those days.
Give ear, O kings; give ear, O rulers, I will make a song to the Lord; I will give praise to the Lord, the God of Israel.
And Samuel sent the people together to the Lord at Mizpah.
And she said to him, The Philistines have been in the inner room, and she said to him, The Philistines are on you, O son of Shimea; and he has broken the cord, like a flower of a bath, when it comes out of the fire, and his strength was not clear.
And Jonathan gave his arms to his young men and said to him, Go and take them to the town.
And Samuel sent to the Lord; and the Lord sent thunder and rain on that day; and all the people were greatly fearing the Lord and Samuel.
And laughing went to the children of Ammon, to fight against them: and the Lord gave them into his hands.
Now Abimelech, the son of Jerub-baal, went to Shechem to his mother's brothers and said to them,
And the children of Israel gave to Eglon the king of Moab for eighteen years.
And she said to Shammah, You have made sport of me, and said to me, Say to me, I will make a request to you that you may be put to shame.
If he says, It is good, your servant will have peace; but if he is very angry, let him see that evil is made by him.
Then his brothers and all the family of his father came down and took him up, and took him up, and put him in his body, and put him in his body in the town of Zorah, in the land of his father's resting-place, and he put Israel in position for twenty years.
And the angel of the Lord put out the stick which he had put in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened bread: and there went a fire out of the rock and burned the flesh and the unleavened bread: and the angel of the Lord went away from his eyes.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to them, We have come back to you, so that you may go with us to fight against the children of Ammon and be for us as heads of all the people of Gilead.
In those days there was no king in Israel; every man did what was right in his eyes.
For this cause, says the Lord, the God of Israel, I will say, Let your house and the house of your father go down before me for ever; and now, says the Lord, I will not be far from me: for he who gives me honour, I will be honoured, and those who have no respect for me are honoured.
And the Amorites sent the children of Dan into the mountain, for they would not let them go down into the valley.
And Saul, hearing the voice of Jonathan, said, The Lord is living, he will not be put to death.
For this reason there is one who has been given birth, and that of one who has been dead, as the stars of heaven, and as the sand by the sea.
So that we may give praise to God for ever, so that the fruit of our lips may give praise to his name.
And he said, Seventy kings with their hands and toes and toes have been cut off from my table; as I have done, so God has given me the reward. And they took him to Jerusalem, and he was dead there.
He has come to a meeting place, and the Philistines have said in his meeting, and the spirit of the Lord is increased over him, and the thick bands on his arms are like the flax which is burning with fire, and his bands are wasted from his hands.
Then all the evil-doers and the rest of the men who went with David said, Because they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the goods which we have got well, to every man his wife and his children, so that he may send them away and go away.
And the rest of the Philistines went out at Michmash.
And there was a man of Mount Ephraim whose name was Micah.
And the men of Ashdod saw it, and said, The ark of the God of Israel is not with us, for his hand has been hard on us, and our god Dagon.
For where there is no agreement, there is to be the death of the evil-doer.
And Saul said to God, Will I go down after the Philistines? will you give them into the hands of Israel? But he gave him no answer on that day.
And they said to him, Be quiet, put your hand on your mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest: is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest for a tribe and a family in Israel?
And Abigail the wife of Ishmael was given to his friend who had been his friend.
My heart is to the cause of the law of Israel, and I will give praise to the people, blessing the Lord.
And Saul said, Happy be you of the Lord, for you have had pity on my cause.
And Enoch was a witness to Enoch, that he might not see death; but he was not seen, because God had given him his word: for he had a witness to him that before he was, he had been pleasing to God.
And Abigail went quickly, and took two hundred cakes of bread, and two cups of wine, five measures of dry grain, and five measures of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them on asses.
And the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, and the Lord gave up a saviour to the children of Israel, who gave them salvation: Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And the people sent and said all this to the children of Benjamin, who were at the rock of Rimmon; and they gave effect to them that they would not be hurt.
Being better than the angels is greater than the angels, and his heritage is greater than theirs.
And David said in his heart, I will go day or another into the hands of Saul; is it not better for me to go in flight, and to be kept safe in the land of the Philistines, so that Saul may have sorrow of me and put an end to me in all the land of Israel? I will get away from his hands.
At the same time he gave him up to be in Ziklag, at the time of Ziklag, to this day.
And the Philistines came to war with Israel, thirty thousand war-carriages and six thousand horsemen, and a people as the sand on the sea; and they came up and put up their tents at Michmash, east of Beth-aven.
And Shammah, the son of Barachel, said, I have got an ass of the ass on asses, with a sharp ass of the ass I have put to death a thousand.
And the men did so, and took two young cows and put them in the wagon; and their young ones were shut up in the house.
Give my love to all your rulers, and to all the saints: for they are from Italy.
Do not go from here, till I come to you, and take my offering and put it before you. And he said, I will be waiting till you come.
And they came down from the high place into the town, and talking with Saul on the roof.
See, I am a witness against me before the Lord, and before his selection: whose ox I have taken, and whose ass have I taken? or who have I taken away? or who have I been put to shame? or of whose hand have I given it to my eyes? and I will give it back to you.
For the law and the shade of the good things which are to come, not the form of things itself, is not able to make it a year by the same meal which is offered without stopping, to make perfect those who come near.
But his father and mother did not see that it was the Lord's; for he had a desire for the Philistines. At that time the Philistines ruled over Israel.
And straight away he sounded the horn in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him, and he went before them.
And the name of his first son was Joel, and the name of his second was Abijah; and they were judges in Beer-sheba.
And Saul got up and went down to the waste land of Ziph, with three thousand chosen men of Israel, looking for David in the waste land of Ziph.
There will be no sound of arrows at the sound of the bowmen, there will they see the upright acts of the Lord, and the upright acts of his rule in Israel. Then the people went down to the doors.
And the chiefs of Issachar, Deborah, was in the middle of the valley; and they went in flight into the valley at his feet: and there was a great heart in the valley of Reuben.
And in no fear of the haters, who are for them a sign of destruction, but to you of salvation and of God.
Then the chiefs of the Philistines went out for war; and David became greater than all the servants of Saul, and his name was honoured.
And Micah made holy the Levites; and the young man became his priest and was in the house of Micah.
And I saw that you would not give us up; I went down to the town of the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into my hands: why have you come up to me this day to make war against me?
And at his turning away from Samuel, God turned to him another heart, and all these signs came on that day.
And when he saw her, he took his clothing in grief and said, Sorrow, my daughter, you have given me a great power, and you are among those who are troubling me; I have given up my mouth to the Lord, and I am not able to go back.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; Abner, the son of Ner, the father of Saul,
And when I come there, we will be living there, or in the town of Ramah.
And he said, I have come to the Lord; I have come to give offerings to the Lord: make yourselves holy, and come with me to the offering; and he made Jesse and his sons holy, and gave them to the peace-offerings.
That in the name of Jesus every knee may be made low, of those who are in heaven, on earth and under the earth:
And like a robe you will take them up, like a robe, and they will be changed: but you are the same, and your years will not be wasted.
For he had a desire for you all, full of grief, because you had news that he was ill.
And he said to them, Out of the fruit of the flesh came forth food, and out of the strong strength; and they were not able to make clear the story for three days.
So that night you and the people who are with you, and go in waiting in the field;
And they sent together all the chiefs of the Philistines, saying, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go back to its place, and it will not be put to death or our people; for there is a great destruction in all the town, and the hand of God is very hard.
And Samuel said to the people, The Lord is witness, who made Moses and Aaron, and who took your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
And the children of Ammon came together and put up their tents in Gilead. And the children of Israel came together and put up their tents at Mizpah.
And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they put to death the Canaanites who were living in the town of Canaan; and they put destruction on it, and the name of the town was called Hormah.
And when Bela went to Gaza, he saw a harlot and went in to her.
For this cause you are to make the images of your grain and the images of your disgusting things which waste the land; and you will give glory to the God of Israel, if he may let loose his hand from you, from your gods and from your land.
For touching those who were once full of knowledge, and had tasted of the grace of heaven, and were given in the Holy Spirit,
And by how much it was not outside the oath;
And they said to them, He is before you; see, he is before you, for he came to the town, for there is a meal among the people in the high place.
But I have hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy quickly to you, so that I may be of good comfort when I have knowledge of you.
And every man got up in his place round about the tent-circle; and all the army went in flight, crying out and putting them in flight.
For every high priest is given to make offerings and offerings, and the chief priest has something to give to him.
And the Philistines came together to fight against Israel, thirty thousand war-carriages and six thousand horsemen, as the sand on the sea, in Michmash, in Michmash, on the east of Beth-aven.
And he went to Ramah; and when he came to the well of the water-spring, he said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, See they are in Ramah.
And they sent representatives to the people of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of the Lord; come down and take it to you.
And he took a young goat with a meal offering and put it on a rock to the Lord; and the angel did wonder, and the man's wife was seen.
And all the men of Shechem said to him in the ears of all the men of Shechem, for they said, He is our brother.
And he said, I am more upright than the Philistines, though I do evil with them.
And when the Philistines saw David, he did not put him to shame; for he was only a young man, and red, and had a good face.
And he came to the outskirts of the field, where there was a hole; and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men were in the middle of the hole.
And the children of Israel went out to the fight with Benjamin, and the men of Israel put themselves in position with them, attacking the town of Gibeah.
But they did not give ear to their judges, because they made themselves unclean after other gods, and put themselves down to them: they turned away quickly from the way in which their fathers went, but did not so.
And the two of them made a agreement before the Lord; and David was still in the place of the Philistines, and Jonathan went to his house.
And the Lord said to Samuel, How long will you be sad for Saul, because I have put an end to him from being king over Israel? Put your horns with oil and go, and I will send you to Jesse, the son of Beth-lehem: for I have given a king for myself among his sons.
And all the trees said to the thorns, You have come over us.
And Jonathan said to David, Come, let us go out into the field. And they went out into the field.
And Saul sent for the people, numbering them in flight, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, cutting down the branches from the trees, took it up, put it on his shoulder, and said to the people who were with him, What you have seen me do, make haste and do as I have done.
And they said, What one is there among the tribes of Israel who came not up to the Lord at Mizpah? And there was no one to come to the tent-circle from Jabesh-gilead,
But the men of Israel were troubled that day; and Saul had given orders to the people, saying, Cursed be the man who takes food till evening, and I am given punishment on my haters. So no one of the people tasted food.
And it came to pass on the morning, that the Philistines came to take away the clothing, and they saw Saul and his three sons on Mount Gilboa.
And he said, Give offerings and offerings for sin and offerings for sin, and do not have pleasure in it, because of the law.
And when all who had knowledge of him before saw that he was a prophet of the prophets, the people said to one another, What is this that has come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
By my desire and hope, so that I will not be put to shame, but with all boldness, as ever, so that Christ will be made great in my body, if by life or by death.
Then David went in flight and took his place over the Philistines, and took his sword and put it out of its place, and put him to death, cutting off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their men were dead, they went in flight.
And he said to him, My lord, if the Lord is with us, why have this trouble come on us? Where are the signs which our fathers have said to us, The Lord has taken us out of Egypt? But now the Lord has turned us away from us, and has given us up into the bands of Midian.
And he said, What have you done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were sent away from me, and that you had not come in the time of the time when the Philistines came together at Michmash,
And the children of Israel were cruel to the children of Israel that year, for eighteen years, all the children of Israel who were on the other side of the Jordan in the land of the Amorites in Gilead.
And Saul's brother said to him and to his servant, Where did you go? And he said, To search for the asses; and when we saw that they had not been seen, we came to Samuel.
And the Philistines said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the field.
And Abimelech was living in the land of Judah; and the children of Heth had given birth to their brothers to go in to Shechem.
I have sent him so much more, so that you may be glad again, and that I might be the less sad.
And Saul sent messengers again to David, saying, Give him up to me in the bed, so that I may put him to death.
But Abimelech, the son of Ahitub, the son of Ahitub, had been his name, and went in flight to David.
And they put to death the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand men, all fat, and all men of war, and not a man got away.
And David was living in Gath, he and his men, one with his house, and David and his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
Now when he had made an end of talking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and Jonathan loved him as his soul.
But you came to Mount Zion, and to a town of the living God, to the heavens of heaven, and to thousands of angels;
So that your pride may be increased in Christ Jesus by my face to you.
After that, the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who were living in the hill-country, and in the South and in the lowland.
And Jonathan made a agreement with the family of David, saying, May the Lord be a witness to the haters of David.
And a man of God came to him, and said to him, This is what the Lord has said: Have I not seen clearly seen in your father's house, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharaoh?
And when Abimelech was fighting against the town all that day, he took the town and put to death the people who were in it; and he took the town and put salt in the field.
And the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, and the Lord gave up a saviour for the children of Israel, and he gave them to Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hands of Israel, and they overcame them: so Israel took all the land of the Amorites and the people of that country.
And at her feet he was bent down, and falling down, he went down to his face; and at her feet he went down, and falling on his face he went down dead.
Then the men came to Saul's house at Gibeah, and gave the news in the ears of the people; and all the people lifted up their voices and were crying.
And she was living in the valley of Ephraim, between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for punishment.
And Saul came to Samuel in the town, and said, Give me the news where the house of the prophet is.
And when the day came, he gave orders to his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters,
I have no doubt foolish men, so that you have been sent in this one to do wrong with me. Is this man come into my house?
All these things were in faith, not having received the word, but from far away when they had seen them; and when they had been quiet, and had been quiet, and had said that those who were strange and living were on the earth,
And Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah the second day, and put an end to eighteen thousand men on the land of the children of Israel, with the sword.
But do not give up the words of your wealth, for God is pleasing to you.
And they made themselves clear to the army of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, See, the Hebrews come out of the holes where they were secretly.
But the hair of his head was to be cut off from his head.
Not that I have got the reward, or have been made complete; but I go after it, if I may get it for myself, seeing that I have been taken up by Christ.
Then Judah went up, and the Lord gave salvation to the Canaanites and the Perizzite into their hands; and they put to death ten thousand men.
And Samuel, hearing all the words of the people, gave them orders in the hearing of the Lord.
If he is able to make war with me, and to put me to death, then we will be your servants: but if I have overcome him and put him to death, then you will be our servants and be your servants.
And he made himself low by himself to death, and death on a cross.
But all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to make sport of every man his property, and his bed and his axe and his goods were made.
And Adam said to the angel of the Lord, What is your name, that when your words come to pass, we may do you honour?
And they said, There is a heritage for those who have escaped from the tribe of Benjamin, so that a tribe may not be put out of Israel.
And they went secretly secretly in waiting with her, and crying out to him, and crying out to him, The Philistines were on you, and the bands of the Philistines were broken with worms, when it was wet with the fire, and it was not clear in his strength.
The children of birth have no knowledge of the Lord.
And he went on to Ramah, and came to the great well which was in the field; and he said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, See, they are at Ramah.
Why did you not give ear to the voice of the Lord, but went in flight on the goods of the Lord?
So that there may be a man who is unclean or unclean, as Esau, who is to give his birthright to his brother.
And Saul said to Michal, Why have you tricked me, and sent away my hater? And Michal said to Saul, Let me go, why am I to put you to death?
The legs were round about him, and his arms were covered with brass.
And he said to her, Get up, and let us go; but no answer; and he took her up on the ass, and the man got up and went back to his place.
But there was a strong tower in the town, and all the men and women and all the people went away, shutting themselves in and went up to the roof of the tower.
And God gave effect to the evil-doing of Abimelech, which he had done to his father, to put death on his seventy brothers;
And when Samuel was old, he made his sons rulers over Israel.
And Jonathan made a agreement with David, because he had love for him as his soul.
After this, a great high priest went through the heaven, Jesus, the Son of God, let us keep the memory of it.
And David came to the two hundred men, and they were feeble so that they were not able to go after David, whom they had made to be in the valley, and they went out to see David and to the people who were with him: and when David came near to the people, he gave them rest.
And Jonathan sent for David, and Jonathan gave him orders all these words; and Jonathan took David to Saul, and he was before him as before.
And the angel of the Lord came to him and said, The Lord is with you, O strong man.
For the word of God is living and working, and there is more than a sword, than a two-edged sword, even to the parted of soul and spirit, to the end and the best, and to see the thoughts and thoughts of the heart.
And it is necessary for him to do this, as for the people, so that he may give for sin.
And the Holy Spirit says to them, The most holy place has not been made clear while the first House has been made.
And the Lord sent a cause of fear into Sodom, and all his war-carriages, and all his army, with the edge of the sword, in the eyes of a sword, so that there was a rush down from his carriage, and went away on foot.
And he may not give himself to himself, even as the high priest goes into the holy place of the holy place by year with blood.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal, and Abimelech went with them for help, and they went after him.
And there was a man of Saul's servants on that day, waiting before the Lord, and his name was over the Edomites, chief of the keepers of Saul.
And David said to Abigail, Happy be the Lord, the God of Israel, who sent you today to see me:
And all the trees said to the thorns, Come and be king over us.
And the number of them were three hundred men, and all the people were bent on their knees to drink water.
And the people said to Saul, Will Jonathan be dead, who has done this great salvation in Israel? As the Lord is living, there will not one hair of his head fall to the earth, because he has done with God this day. So the people took up Jonathan, so that he was not dead.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are there all your sons? And he said, There is still a young man who keeps the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and get him, for we will not be seated till he come here.
But when the children of Israel were weeping to the Lord, the Lord made them a saviour, and said, Ehud, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a man of Benjamin; and by him the children of Israel sent a present to Eglon, the king of Moab.
Make straight roads for your feet, what is feeble is not turned away, but that it may be made well.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, got up from Keilah, went to wherever they were able to go. And Saul said to Saul, David was put out of Keilah, and he went out.
Why, as the Holy Spirit says, If you will give ear to his voice,
And Jonathan made a agreement with the house of David, saying, May the Lord send for the haters of David.
But his father and mother did not see that it was the Lord's; for he had a desire for the Philistines. At that time the Philistines had rule over Israel.
And he said to them, Why are you doing such things? for I have ears of your evil works from all this people.
And I said to you, I am the Lord your God: do not have fear of the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you are living; but you have not given ear to my voice.
And when David saw that Saul had come out to get his life, he was in the waste land of Ziph, in a wood.
And the name of his first son was Joel; and the name of his second was Abijah; and they were judges in Beer-sheba.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them over to the Philistines for forty years.
And when David saw that Saul had come out to search for his life, and David was in the waste land of Ziph,
And the Lord said to the king, I will send salvation to you by the three hundred men, and put the Midianites into your hands; let all the people go, every man to his place.
Do not go away from here till I come back to you, and take my offering and put it out before you. And he said, I will keep till you come back.
And the Philistines went up and put up their tents in Judah, and went out in a meeting place.
And a man of Benjamin went out from the army, and came to the end of Shiloh the same day with his robe cut off, and his head dropped on dust.
And they went up and put up their tents in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah: and they gave that place that place is to this day. See, it is still at Kiriath-jearim.
And he said to her, Give me a little water, for I am in need of water. And she put a bottle of milk and gave him a drink and covered him.
And they were near Jebus, and the day was far away; and the servant said to his master, Come, let us go back to this town of the Jebusite, and let us spend the night in it.
And Moses was given birth by faith for three months by his parents, because they saw the child fair, and they were not fearing the king's orders.
And he took them before the king of Moab, and they were living with him all the days of David, in the walled place.
And they made him the image of his image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
Who has been made, not by the law of the flesh, but by the power of an eternal life.
And he went running to him, and said, See, I am, because you have given me my name. But he said, I have not sent you; go back and sleep. So he went and lay down.
And David said to Abishai, Do not put him to death: for who is able to put out his hand against the Lord, and be free?
Then David said, Do not do so, my brothers, with what the Lord has given us, who has kept us safe, and has given up the band which came against us into our hands.
And so it is to say, By Abraham even to Levi, who takes the tenth part, has given the tenth part;
Then he said to God, In order to take Israel by my hand, as you have said,
So the people were numbered, and there was no one among the people of Jabesh-gilead.
And the Lord said to them, Did not the Egyptians and the Amorites and the children of Ammon and the Philistines?
And he took away his clothing from his clothing, and gave the rest of his words to the rest of the rest of Samuel, and took away his clothing all that day and night; and he gave orders to a wise saying, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And when Eliab, his oldest brother, had news of his words to the men, and the wrath of Eliab was burning against David, he said, Why have you come down? and to whom have you left the number of sheep in the waste land? I have made clear your pride and the evil of your heart, to see the war you have come down.
And what will we do for wives for them, for we have made an oath by the Lord that we will not give them of our daughters for wives?
And David got up and went with his men and overcame the Philistines with two hundred men; and David took their cords and gave them to the king, so that he might be the son of the king's wife. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter as wife.
For they were not able to keep up what was ordered: If a beast on the mountain is to be stoned,
But if you are without training, in which all the words of God have come to you, you are untrue and not sons.
Because it was necessary for us to be cruel to the people of God, than to see the memory of the glory,
And they got up the grain of grain in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark and were glad to see.
And he went running to him, and said, Here am I, for you have been my servant. And he said, I have no name; sleep again. And he went and lay down.
They have been a wall to us by night and by day, all the days of our being with them, taking care of the flock.
So then, my lord, as the Lord is living and as your soul is life, the Lord has kept you from death by taking things into your hands, so that your haters may be like the sinner, even those who are waiting for my lord to do evil.
And they blew the three hundred horns; and the Lord put every man's sword against his neighbour and all the army; and the army went in flight as far as Beth-Arabah, as far as the limit of Abel Hepher, with the bath.
And the three hundred horns were blowing; and the Lord put every man's sword against his brother and against all the army; and the army went in flight as far as Beth-horon, as far as the end of Abel the Meholathite, by the bath.
Then the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who were living in the hill-country, and in the South and in the lowland.
My heart is to the chiefs of Israel, making themselves ready for themselves among the people: give praise to the Lord.
Why were you seated among the flocks? to give attention to the voice of the flock? at the stream of Reuben, there were great burning hearts.
Then Saul went to the town of Amalek, and put an attack in the valley.
And they came down from the high place into the town, and Samuel was talking with Saul on the top of the house.
And you will change them, and they will be changed: but you are the same, and your years will not be wasted.
And he said, What have you done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were wandering from me, and you had not come at the time when the Philistines came at Michmash,
And there were a Hebrew with the Philistines before that time, who had gone up with them into the tent-circle; and they were to be with the children of Israel who were with Saul and Jonathan.
For seven months the ark of the Lord was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And he said to him, Lord, how am I to give salvation to Israel? See, my family is only the poor of Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And he went to the house of her father and went to the house of her father, to the house of her father, and was there for four months.
So that we may say, The Lord is my helper; I will not be afraid of what man will do to me.
Do not be hard-hearted, as in the day of trouble, in the day of testing in the waste land.
And he said, With the sharp part of the ass there is a mass of stones, and with the sharp part of the ass I have wounded a thousand men.
Against whom has the king of Israel come out? whom do you go after? a dead dog?
And Adam said to the angel of the Lord, What is your name, that when your words come to us to give you honour?
And Saul overcame Amalek from Havilah, as far as Shur, which is east of Egypt.
And from Ephraim he gave destruction to Amalek, and from Benjamin to your people, O Amalek; and out of Machir came down chiefs, and from Zebulun their armies.
But the makers of Sisera went in flight to the tent of Ishvi, the wife of Eber, the Kenites; for there was peace between Jabin, the king of Hazor, and the land of Eber the Kenites.
Then the first agreement had the rules of God and the holy place.
And after him, the mountain of the children of Zebulun judges Israel, and he judges Israel for ten years.
And the children of Israel went up to weeping before the Lord till evening and questioning the Lord, saying, Will we again come near against the children of Benjamin, our brothers? And the Lord said, Go up against them.
For I will have mercy on their wrongdoing, and their sins and their evil-doing will be no longer for ever.
Now Samuel did not have knowledge of the Lord, or the word of the Lord was made clear to him.
And the Philistines said, This day I have made sport of the armies of Israel: give me a man, so that we may be fighting together.
And the people came to the tent-circle, and the responsible men of Israel said, Why has the Lord put us to death today before the Philistines? we took to us from Shiloh the ark of the agreement of the Lord, and it came into us, and he will keep us safe from the hand of our haters.
And he said to her, Take your place at the door of the Tent; and if any man may come in and say to you, Is there a man here? that you say, There is no more.
And there were seven hundred men, strong men, fighting with the right hand and with the right hand; and they put stones to death, so that they might have a hair on them, and they were not walking by the stone's journey.
Will you not take the heritage of your god Chemosh? and he who the Lord our God has taken away from before us, will we take their property.
The stars have been fighting from heaven; they have made war with Sisera.
And the rulers of Succoth said, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, so that we may give food to your army?
For we have knowledge of the one who said, I will send punishment on myself, says the Lord; and again, the Lord will be a judge to his people.
And they said to them, He is before you; see, he is before you. Come quickly, for he has come today into the town, for the people have a meal today in the high place.
From now on till his haters are made the feet of his feet.
And they sent representatives to the children of Benjamin, who were in the rock, and gave them orders to take them in peace.
And the children of Israel were crying to the Lord because of Midian.
For every high priest is given to give offerings and offerings: why is the man who has a part in his hands?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they overcame the Canaanites who were living in the field; and they overcame it and gave the name of the town Hormah.
Those who were full of food get out for food, and those who were in need of food came to an end, so that the children of the dead had come to birth for seven, and the number of the children of childbirth was feeble.
And let us take note of one another, to make love for love and to good works:
Go out into the field, and get up their vine-gardens, crushing themselves, and make melody, and go into the house of their god, feasting and drink and say cruel things against Abimelech.
Then he put on his robes, put on other clothing, and went with two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and said to her, Give me the seed of your spirit, and give me up to the one I give you.
After that, the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanite, and the hill-country and the south and the lowland.
And the sons of Benjamin did so, taking women after their numbers, out of the music which they had taken away, and turning back to their heritage, building the towns and living in them.
And this is what you are to do: every male or woman who has connection with man may be put to death.
And when they came in, he saw Eliab, and said, Truly, before the Lord, his selection.
And Naphtali did not take away the people of Beth-Shemesh or of building; but they were living in the land of the Canaanites, and the people of the land; and the people of Beth-shemesh and Hosah became hard for them.
And say to the children of Israel, This is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I have taken Israel out of Egypt, and I will give you salvation from the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hands of all the kingdoms who are cruel to you.
And Saul put his spear on him to put him to death; and Jonathan saw that his father had put David to death.
And the Lord gave them into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan, who was king in Hazor, the captain of Sisera, who was living in the fields of the nations.
This is the agreement which I will make with them after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws in their hearts and put them on their minds, says the Lord.
And the Philistines came together, and they came and put up their tents in the vine-gardens: and Saul and all Israel came together and came to Midian.
And the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they said, One was the son-in-law of the sister of Shimeah, for he took his wife and gave her to his friend. And the Philistines went up and burned her and her father with fire.
So let all your haters be cut off, O Lord, and let those who love him be as the sun when it is in his strength. And the land had rest for forty years.
But to rest in the flesh, there is more need for you.
And Saul chose for himself three thousand from Israel, and two thousand were with Saul in Michmash, and in the hill-country of Beth-el; and there was a thousand of Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and the rest of the people went to his tents.
And I gave you up out of the hands of the Egyptians, and out of the hands of all who were cruel to you, driving them out from before you, and gave you their land.
And she said, Let your servant see the favor of your servant. So the woman went her way and had food, and her face was not sad.
And Saul said to Michal, Why have you tricked me, and let my hater go, so that he is safe? And Michal said to Saul, Let me go, why am I to put you to death?
And the bowmen went in flight, and went after him; and they took him, cutting off his hands and toes on him.
Now it came to pass on a day, when Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who had his arms, Come and let us go over to the tents of the Philistines who are on the other side; but he did not give orders to his father.
And over it were the lights of the glory covered with the cover, about which it was not possible to say.
And Abimelech was fighting against the town all that day; and he took the town and put to death the people who were in it, crushing the town and planting it with salt.
And if I have been put out on the offerings and in your faith, I will be glad and be glad with you all.
And Shammah, the son of David, took the two pillars on which the house had rest and put on them the one with his right hand and the other with his left.
And when he came, there was a man who had a dream to his neighbour, and said, See, I had a dream, and there was a meal of barley bread in the tents of Midian, and came to a tent and put it on it and put it on it and put it on the tent.
And all the evil men of Shechem had God turned back on their heads, and the curse of Jotham, the son of Jerub-baal.
And they put him in the land of his heritage in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the hill-country of Gaash.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, with David and his men on that side of the mountain; and David went in flight from Saul, and Saul and his men were looking for David and his men.
And God took the hollow place which was in a band of meeting, and water came out of it, and he was drinking, and his spirit came back, and he gave birth to it: and his name was named the fountain of him who was crying out to this day.
Because it has been given to you for Christ, not only to have faith in him, but also to undergo for himself.
Because I have put my hope and hope, so that in no way I will be put to shame, but in my body as ever; so now Christ will be made great in my body, if by life or by death.
And Jonathan said to Saul, Give me permission to go to Beth-lehem.
And it came about as the flame went up from the altar to heaven, so that the angel of the Lord went up in the flame of the altar; and Adam and his wife were looking on and falling on their faces to the earth.
So Joshua sent the people away, and every man went to his heritage to take the land.
So that, having a great high priest who has gone through the heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us keep the memory of our faith.
So let us be full of fear, that the word may not be stopped in his place, or any of you be thought to be desired.
And he will take your male servants and your women-servants and your young men and your asses and give them to his work.
Now after Abimelech there was a ruler in Israel, the son of Shimea, the brother of Judah, a man of Issachar, who was living in the hill country of Ephraim.
And he said to David, You are greater than I: for you have done good to me, and I have given you a reward with evil.
And be still in the flesh more for your account,
And Jotham went away and went away, and went to Beer-sheba; and there he was there because of his brother Abimelech.
And the children of Israel cried to the Lord, as he had nine hundred iron war-carriages, and the children of Israel were cruel for twenty years.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not go back with you, for you have turned away from the word of the Lord, and the Lord has put you away from being king over Israel.
So David made request to the Lord, saying, Am I to go and attack these Philistines? And the Lord said to David, Go, and put an end to the Philistines and give them to the place of Keilah.
And he went and went to Ramah, and went to the great well of the well, and said, Where is the place of Samuel and David? And he said, See, in Ramah.
And part of part, having been given up to shame and violent acts, and part of part, having part with the others.
And Saul and all Israel had news of the words of the Philistines, and they were overcome with fear.
And Saul was waiting at the end of the foot of Gibeah, under the feet of the pomegranate; and the men who were with him were about six hundred men.
And Samuel was a child before the Lord, clothed with a linen ephod.
But now it says, But once more, says the things which are moved, what have been done, so that the things which are not overcome may be stopped.
And Abijah went down to Timnah and saw a woman in Timnath-serah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Amasa went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnath-serah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And David took his goods in the hands of the armed men, and went running to the army; and he came and gave news to his brothers.
And there came ten thousand men from all Israel, coming out against Gibeah, and the fight became cruel: they did not see that evil was near them.
Now the men of Israel had made an oath in Mizpah, saying, We will not give his daughter to the sons of Benjamin for a wife.
For it would have been necessary for him to undergo many times from the foundation of the world, but now he has come to the end of the world for the destruction of his sin.
And said to him, See, you are old, and your sons do not go in your ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
Because passion is against the church, because of the righteousness which is in the law, without fear.
And Saul said, No man will be put to death this day: for this day the Lord has done salvation in Israel.
Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail; and the woman was of good sense and of a beautiful face; but the man was full of pride and evil in his works, and he was of the family of Caleb.
And his mother made him a little robe, and gave it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to give the peace-offerings.
And Samuel was put to rest till the morning, opening the doors of the house of the Lord. And Samuel was honoured to make clear the vision.
And Shammah, the son of Kareah, took three hundred small foxes, and took the tail and the tail, and put a stick in the middle of two tails.
And the children of the Kenites, Moses's father-in-law, went up out of the town with the children of Judah, the waste land of Judah, which is in the south country of Arad; and they went and were living with the people.
And Jacob had faith in Jacob's death, blessing every one of the sons of Joseph, and put worship on the top of his rod.
And Saul went to his house in the town of Gibeah, and there went with him the army whose hearts had been touched.
And the Lord will be judge and judge between me and you; he will take note of my cause and take me out of your hands.
And the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord, because they went away from the offering of the Lord.
And he went back to Ramah, for his house was there, and there he was judged by Israel, and there he made an altar to the Lord.
And if you are full of fear to go down, go with your servant at the tent-circle.
And he made him to be ruler over the rulers among the people: the Lord made me lord over the strong.
And I will go out and take place by my father in the field where you are; and I will say to my father, I will give you whatever I see.
And on the morning the people went out to the field and said to Abimelech,
And the rod of his spear was like a weaver's rod, and his spear was about six hundred shekels of iron: and his arms went before him.
And Saul got up and went down to the waste land of Ziph, with three thousand chosen men of Israel, looking for David in the waste land of Ziph.
Then Saul and all the people who were with him made a loud cry, and they came to the place of the fight; and every man's sword was turned on his neighbour, and there was a very great slaughter.
And Judah took Gaza and its limit, and Ashkelon and its outskirts, Ekron and its outskirts;
And Jesse made seven of his sons before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, The Lord has not taken these.
And he came up and said to his father and mother, I saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now get her for me to wife.
And Jesse gave birth to him, saying, The Lord has not taken this man.
And he went on the way to Beth-horon, turning on the way facing the valley of Zeboiim, toward the waste land.
And the priest said, See, here is the sword of Goliath, the son of the Philistines, whom you made to the west in the valley of the ephod: if you take this, take it, for there is no other but this. And David said, There is no one like this.
And David was greatly troubled, for the people were stoning him, because all the people were troubled, every man for his sons and his daughters: but David made himself strong in the Lord his God.
And he took his stick in his hand, and he gave him five smooth stones from the stream; and he put them in the care of the keepers of money, which he had, even in the bag, with his arrows in his hand, and he came near to the Philistines.
Then Saul sent his servants to David's house to take care of him, so that he might be put to death in the morning. And Michal, the wife of David's wife, had said to him, If you do not keep this night, you will be put to death.
The children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and on that day twenty-two thousand of the children of Israel went down to the earth.
And he made the silver to his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the father, and he made of them a image and a metal image, and they were in the house of Micah.
Is it not the grain of grain to the day? I will send out to the Lord, and he will send thunder and rain, so that you may see and see that your evil-doing is great, which you have done in the eyes of the Lord, to make a king a king.
For God has made him great, and has given him a name by all names:
And Saul took him three thousand men from Israel: there were two thousand men in Michmash, in Michmash, and in the hill-country of Benjamin; and the rest of the people sent every man to his tent.
And from there he went to the people of Debir, and the name of Debir before was Kiriath-sepher.
And he said to the angel of the Lord, What is your name, that when your words come, we may give glory to you?
The death of the Lord is death, and he gives life to life; he goes down to the underworld and gives up.
Which is a sign for the time of the present, to make offerings and offerings which may not be offered, as touching the heart, to make the worship complete.
The Lord makes poor and makes wealth; he gives low, even lifting up;
So now, you and the people who are with you, and go in waiting in the field;
And the Lord took judges, and they kept them safe from the hands of those who took them.
And Saul said to him, Whose son art you, you young? And David said, I am the son of your servant Jesse, the name of Beth-lehem.
And it came to the end of the meal at Shiloh, and after drinking, and the priest was seated on the seat by the side of the house of the Lord.
And all the evil men and the evil men of those who had gone with David said, Because they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the goods which we have got well, to every man his wife and his children, so that they may go away and go away.
And the men of the town said to Joash, Take your son, that he may be put to death, because he has broken down the altar of Baal, and have cut down the Asherah, which was by it.
And he lifted up his eyes and saw the night in the public square; and the old man said, Where are you going? and where have you come?
And Saul said to David, See, my oldest daughter Michal is to give you your wife; only be strong for me and fight against the Lord. But Saul said, My hand will not be on him, but the hand of the Philistines will be on him.
And so that he may have a long time for himself, even as the high priest may come into the holy place every year with blood of others;
Take away the sin of your servant, for the Lord will certainly make my lord a safe place: because my lord is fighting against the Lord, and evil has not been seen in you all your days.
And this is the word, but it is necessary to take away those who are moved from those things which are made low, so that those things which are not overcome may be stopped.
And I will make me a true priest, who will give effect to my heart and my soul, and I will make him a true house, and he will go all the days before my selection.
See, my daughter, the virgin, and his wife, let me take them out and make them low, and do to them what is good in your eyes, and to this man do not do this foolish thing.
And God gave witness to him at the same time signs and wonders and wonders, and giving knowledge of the Holy Spirit by his will.
And Samuel said, Has the Lord delight in burned offerings and offerings, as in the hearing of the Lord? See, let it be better than to give ear, and to give ear than the fat of sheep.
And they went back and went in flight to the waste land, to the rock of Rimmon; and they took five thousand men after them, and went after them to go after them, and put two thousand men on them.
And the five men go and come to the town of Laish, and see the people who are in the middle of the land of the Zidonians, quiet and quiet; and there is no shame in the land in any way, and there is no one to put shame on the people of Tyre, and they have no word with man.
And all the people of the land came to wood, and honey was on the earth.
And David got up and went over with the six hundred men with him, the son of Arioch, king of Gath.
Then the heart of the priest was glad; and he took the ephod and the images and the images and went in among the people.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on laughing, and went through Gilead and Manasseh; and he went through Mizpah, and came to the children of Ammon.
And Abigail came quickly, taking two hundred cakes, and two cups of wine, and five sheep, and five measures of dry grain, and two hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them on asses.
Why, when he comes into the world, he says, Give offerings and offerings to you; but you have made me a body.
For there is a man who does not give orders, because of his weakness, and because of its weakness;
And at the time of her death, the women who were waiting by her said to her, Have no fear, for you have given birth to a son. But she gave no answer, and she gave no attention.
And the woman had a fat ox in the house; and she quickly put it to death and took some meal and made cakes of unleavened bread.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months; and she went with her friends, weeping bitterly on the mountains.
For it was right for us to have such a high priest, holy, without a clean, free, cut off from sinners, and made higher than heaven.
See, today your eyes have seen that the Lord has given you this day into my hand in the hole, and he said to put you to death and have pity on you, and I say, I will not put my hand on my lord, for he is the Lord's Lord.
He gives up the poor from the dust, lifting up the poor from the waste places, to make them to be seated with rulers, and to take the seat of glory, because the pillars of the earth are the Lord's; he has put the earth on them.
And when they gave it to Jotham, he went and stood on the top of Mount Gerizim, lifting up his voice and said to them, Give ear to me, O men of Shechem, that God may give ear to you.
And the men of Israel said, Have you seen this man who has come up? for he will go up against Israel, and the king will make him strong with great wealth, and he will give him his daughter in marriage, and will make his father's house free from Israel.
And there will not be any deceit in Israel, and they will not be changed, for he is not a man to be moved.
The Lord will be broken down with his haters, and his voice will be on them in the heavens: the Lord will judge the ends of the earth, and give strength to his king, and let his horn be lifted up.
But the thorns and the thorns are turned away; they are near to curse; whose end is to be burned.
And another group went to Beth-horon, and another group went on the way of the side of Aroer, toward the waste land.
And Jonathan said to David, By the Lord, the God of Israel, when I have given orders to my father about this time, or the third day, see, if there is good for David, will I not send to you and make it clear to you?
And when he had given an account of the ark of God, he came down from the place on the side of the doorway, and his neck was broken, and he was dead: for the man was old and was a great man, and he had been judged for forty years.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And Abimelech was told that all the rulers of Shechem had come together.
He let the foxes go into the fire, so that they may go there and go there. And they went to the grain of the Philistines, which was on fire, and the grain was burned up; and that which was still was burned up, so that the flames burned up the vine-gardens and the trees.
And David said to Jonathan, Who will say to me, or what is your father's answer?
And they put to death a young ox and gave birth to the child,
So let us go out to him outside the tent-circle, having his shame.
And they sent representatives again to the king of the children of Ammon,
And David took her out of her hand, and said to her, Go up in peace to your house; see, I have given ear to your voice, and I have given you your approval.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have done wrong, because I have broken the word of the Lord and your words, because I was afraid of the people and kept their voice.
And you are to take the ark of the Lord and put it on the wagon and the vessels of gold which you have made for sin, put into a little vessel at the side of it, and send it away so that it may go.
And today have I made request for him in God? Far be it from me; let not the king take anything against his servant, against any of my father's house: for your servant has knowledge of all this, less or less.
Not one of them was of the least of the greatest, even sons and daughters, from the goods which they had taken for themselves; and David took all things.
But the evil man said, How is he to give us salvation? and they gave him no cause, and gave him no rewards, but he was like a deaf man.
And the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And when he had news of his words to the men, Eliab was angry with David, and he said, Why have you come down? with whom have you left the flock in the waste land? I have knowledge of your pride and the heart of your heart, for you have come down to see the war.
And when he had made an end of offering the burned offering, he saw that he went out to see him, and he went out to see him.
And he said to David, You are more upright than I am: for you have done me good, and I have done you wrong.
And a man does not take for himself the honour, but is named by God, even as Aaron was.
And he said to him, See, there is a man of God in this town, a man of glory, and all that he says he will certainly come. Now let us go there, that he may let us say our way, for which we have come.
And when the ark of the agreement of the Lord was come into the tent-circle, all Israel gave a loud cry, and the earth was increased.
And they said, Get up, that we may go up against them: for we have seen the land and see that it is very good: are you still still? do not be slow to work, and go in to take the land.
And Saul's servants said these words to David in private, but David said, Is it small in your eyes to be the son-in-law of the king, as I am a poor man, and a man who is not a man?
Then they made request to the Lord for help, so that they might see if their journey would be well and what was needed.
And to Jesus, who had a new agreement, and for blood, talking better than Abel.
From Ephraim is their root to Amalek, and after you, O Benjamin, with your family; from Machir the captains went down, and from Zebulun, those who take the rod of the army.
And all these, having faith in faith, did not have the word of the word.
And he built an altar there to the Lord, and gave it to the Lord, says the Lord, to this day it is in the house of the Rechabites:
And she was living in the valley of Ephraim, between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went up to her for a decision.
And the Lord was with Judah; and he took the hill-country, for he did not take away the people of the valley, because they had war-carriages of iron.
For this reason, as the Holy Spirit says, Today if you give ear to his voice,
And after that, he had a wife in the valley of Egypt, and her name was named to her.
And she said, Because of the ark of God, because of the taking of the ark of God, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
So David went with him, and he and the six hundred men with him; and they came to the valley, and the rest was still.
And he went in flight and took his place over the Philistines, and took his sword and put it out of its place, and put him to death and cut off his head. And when the Philistines saw that their men were dead, they went in flight.
And the man took the robe and put it before Saul. And he said, See what is left, put it before you and take it to you; for it was kept for you when I sent the people together, and Saul took food with Samuel that day.
And the hand of the Lord was hard on them of Ashdod, and he made them waste and put them to death with the beasts of Ashdod and Ashdod and its country.
So I made an oath in my wrath, they will not go into my rest.
And it will come to pass, that anyone who is in your house may come to his prayer, and make a bag of silver and a cake of bread, and say, Put me to a priest, so that I may take a bit of bread.
And it came to pass at that time, when he was put down in his place, his eyes became dark, so that he might not see.
Who had no need for ever, as the chief priests, first for his sins, to make offerings for the people; for this he had done a time when he had made himself ready.
To make you perfect in every good work of his will, to do what is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ: to whom be glory for ever and ever.
So now, I am certain that you will certainly be king, and the kingdom of Israel will be in your hands.
And David said to the Philistines, You come to me with a sword and a spear and a spear; but I will come to you in the name of the Lord of armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have made sport of.
And he said to the angel of the Lord, Let us give a young goat to you.
And this man went up out of his town from year to year to worship and to give offerings to the Lord of armies in Shiloh: and the two sons of the Lord, the chief of the Levites, were there.
If he is able to make war with me and put me to death, we will be servants to you; but if I have overcome him and put him to death, then you will be servants and will be your servant.
And David and his men went to Keilah, and made war with the Philistines, and took their cattle and put them to death with a great slaughter. So David made the people of Keilah free.
And now are you better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab? has he ever made war against Israel, or did he make war against them?
Then he went down with his father and mother to Timnah; and when they came to the vine-gardens of the town, there came to him a lion, a great and a loud voice.
But he took care of himself, taking the form of a servant, taking his place in form of men;
And not through the blood of the he-goats and of the herd, but into the holy places, into the holy place, for the eternal life which has been given for ever.
And there was a angel of the Lord, and he was seated under an oak in the valley of Eshcol, who was the father of the house of Gad; and when he put his son in the grain-floor, he got clean from the wine of Midian.
And he said to him, This is what is said: Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon;
And I will put three arrows on the side of it, and I will send out three arrows.
And Saul said, They have taken them from Amalek: for the people have kept the best of the sheep and of the cattle, to make offerings to the Lord your God, but the rest we have put to death.
It is bad for us, for there was no great joy before us, and the day before: it is bad for us. Who will give us salvation from the hand of these gods? These are the gods who made Egypt with all the diseases in the waste land.
So Michal let David down through a window, and he went in flight and got away.
Without father and without mother, having no family lists of days or the end of life, but giving themselves to the Son of God, is the same as a priest.
Who is true to him who made him, even Moses in all his house.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath, the Philistines, whom you put to death in the valley of God, is there, and put it in a linen cloth, and take it, for there is no other. And David said, There is no other like it. Give it to me.
Then Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went out and took his place at the doorway of the town; and Abimelech and the people who were with him got up from the band.
And they will say what you are doing, and will give you two cakes, which you may take from their hands.
So then, my dear brothers and sisters, let my joy and my crown be in the Lord, dear friends.
And Shechem went out in the eyes of Shechem, and made war against Abimelech.
And all Israel had news of it, saying, Saul has put the army of the Philistines to death, and Israel has been hated by the Philistines. And the people are crying after Saul to Gilgal.
And when you come into the town, you will see him quickly, before he goes up to the high place to take food: for the people will not take food till he comes, because he has given his blessing: then go up; for at this time you will have him.
And when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, went in flight to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And when you go away from me this day, you will find two men by the resting-place of Rachel in the land of Benjamin to the south, and they will say to you, The asses are seen which you went to search for. And your father said no more of the asses for you, and said, What am I to do for my son?
So the servants of David went on their way, and came back and gave orders to him all the words which he had said.
And he overcame them with a great slaughter, and he went down, living in the hole of the rock of Etam.
So that day the Lord gave salvation to Israel, and the fight went to Beth-aven.
Then Saul said, I have done wrong: go back, O David, my son; for I will no longer do you evil, because my life is great in your eyes this day: see, I have been acting as a foolish man, and have been turned away.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
And the children of Israel went from there, every man to his father and his family, and every man went out from there to his heritage.
Will the men of Keilah give me up into his hands? will Saul come down as your servant has news? O Lord, the God of Israel, let me say to you, Give me your servant. And the Lord said, He will come down.
So that through them I may make Israel search, if they keep the way of the Lord and go in it, as their fathers kept it, or not.
Now all the people of the land went into the woods, for there was honey on the face of the earth.
And I went out, and I got up by the side of my father in the field where you were; and I said to my father, I have seen what is coming, and I have made it clear to you.
And if I have been made to be a cause of blessing and of your faith, I will have joy and peace with you all.
For when the children are part of flesh and blood, he himself himself took part of the same; so that through death he might put destruction on him who had the power of death, that is, the Evil One.
They were put to death, and they were cut open; they were put to death, they were put to death by the sword; they were wandering about in the skin of skins, in pleasure, in pleasure, in grief, in grief.
And they turned away from the Lord, the God of their fathers, who had taken them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, of the gods of the peoples round about them, and gave worship to them and made the Lord angry.
And Samuel went round about to go and put on the robe of his robe, and it was broken.
And all the men of the waste and of the foolish men among the men who went with David, said, Because they had not gone with us, we will not give them anything from the goods which we have got up, but every man may take his wife and his sons, and take them away and go.
And early in the morning he got up early on the fifth day, and the father's father said, Make your heart strong, I pray you, till the day be ended; and they did so.
And he said to his servant, Come and let us go to one of these places to go to the night in Gibeah or in Ramah.
But if you are without training, of which all have been made together, you are responsible for yourselves and not sons.
So David sent out some men, and they saw that Saul had come in very wrong.
And Samuel said, Why are you questioning me, seeing that the Lord has gone away from you?
If then the Levites were under the order of the priests, ( for there was a division among the people), what need was there for the priest to get up by the order of Malchijah, and not be named by the order of Aaron?
And the sons of Benjamin did so, and took wives, after their number, of those who were dancing, and they went back and went back to their heritage, building the towns and living in them.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw a strong man or a man, he took him to him.
And the angel of the Lord said to him, If you are to keep me, I will not have enough of your bread; and if you give a burned offering to the Lord, give it up to the Lord: for he did not have knowledge that he was the angel of the Lord.
Be strong, and be strong as men, O daughters of the Philistines, that you are not servants of the Hebrews, as they have been to you: let your hearts be turned back as men and fight.
And he said, Let me go, for there is a meal offering in the town, one of my brothers has sent for me; and now, if I have found grace in your eyes, I will go quickly and see my brothers: for this cause he did not come to the king's table.
And the land of the Amorites was from the side of the slope of Akrabbim, from the rock and the higher.
The men of Gibeah have got up against me, and they go round the house against me by night: they are thought to put to death and to my wife, and she is dead.
Let the fear of the Lord be in the fear of him, and let all your heart be holy, for see how great things he has done for you.
But she did not go up, for she said to her husband, Not till the child is given up, and I will send him before the Lord, and keep there for ever.
And he took ten men from his servants, as the Lord had said to him; and because he was afraid of his father's house and the men of the town by night, he did it by night.
The five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Zidonians, and the Avvites, who are living in Lebanon, from Mount Hermon, as far as Hamath.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and put up their tents against Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Make a agreement with us, and we will be your servant.
God has given grace to us, so that they may not be made without us.
Only in food and drinking and another baptism, and the law of the flesh, till the time of the change of their sins.
And her lord got up in the morning, opening the door of the house, and went out to go his way, and saw that the woman was his wife, at the door of the house, and her hands were on the doorstep.
Be clear to all men, for the Lord is near.
And he sent representatives through all the tribe of Manasseh, and sent representatives to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to them.
And Samuel was judged by Samuel all the days of his life.
And truly, if they had been in mind of the land where they came from, they might have a chance to come back.
And Samuel said, What is this that of the sheep in my ears, and the voice of the cattle which I am hearing?
And the angel of the Lord put out the stick which was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and got up fire out of the rock and burned the flesh and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of the Lord went out from his eyes.
And on that day he made it a law and a law for Israel to this day.
Then Samuel sent to the Lord; and the Lord sent thunder and rain on that day; and all the people were greatly fearing the Lord and Samuel.
The Lord will judge between me and you, and the Lord will take care of you; but my hand will not be on you.
Now the God of peace, who took up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great Shepherd of the flock, by the blood of the eternal testament,
And he was living in the hill-country, in the middle of the field, in addition to the edge of the field, in the valley, and in the valley of Salecah; and the hand of the house of Joseph was hard on him, and he became a servant to him.
For in a little time he who comes will come, and will not be waiting.
And Saul gave orders to all the people to go down to the fight against the people of Keilah, attacking David and his men.
And one of the same place said, Who is their father? So it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Let me not put out my hand against the king of the Lord, so that the spear is near his head and the water, and let us go.
See, here is my daughter, a virgin, and his wife: I will send them out now and make them low, and do with them what seems good to you: but to this man there is no such foolish acts.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, went in flight and were troubled.
And the three sons of Jesse went after Saul to the fight; and the name of his three sons was Eliab the oldest, and his third was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.
And Michal took the images and put it in the bed, and put his head on her head, and covered it with clothing.
And they saw an Egyptian in the field and took him to David; and they gave him bread to take food and water to drink.
And in the day of the fight there was no sword or spear in the hand of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan, but with Saul and his son Jonathan.
And see and see, when the daughters of Shiloh are dancing in the dance, come out of the vine-gardens and take for yourselves a wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
And the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, and the Lord got up for them a saviour, and Ehud, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, and one of his left hand. And the children of Israel sent to Eglon, king of Moab.
And men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of the Lord and took it into the house of Abinadab in Gibeah; and they made holy Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the Lord.
And Saul came back from the Philistines and said to him, See, David is in the waste land.
And he got up to go after you and to search for your soul, and the soul of my lord has been shut up in the bag of life with the Lord your God; as to the soul of your haters, he will send them out in the middle of the sling.
So they went back to the town at Gibeah; and he went in and took his seat in the public square of the town, for there was no one who took them into his house.
Keep in mind your rulers, who have given you the word of God, and see their ways, and do their faith.
And the trees went and put oil on the king, and said to the olive-tree, Rule over us.
And I make it hard for you to do this, so that I may come again to you quickly.
And Benjamin came back at that time, and gave them the women whom they had kept safe from the women of Jabesh-gilead, and there was not enough for them.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites; for the people have kept the best of the sheep and the oxen, to make offerings to the Lord your God; and the rest we have put to destruction.
For all the days the son of Jesse will be living on the earth, you and your kingdom; and now send him to me, for he is a son of death.
And the seven days were weeping before him for seven days; and on the seventh day he said to her, Because she was cruel to him, and gave the sense to the children of her people.
Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
And Israel and the Philistines went up armed against the other.
Even though he was a Son, and had knowledge of the things which he had done,
And the children of Israel got up in the morning and put up their tents at Gibeah.
Then Judah went up, and the Lord gave orders to the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands; and they overcame them with ten thousand men.
And the people sent twelve thousand men of the Jews there, saying, Go and attack the people of Jabesh-gilead with the sword, with the women and children.
Which we have put up as a mark of the soul, a hope for the upright and true, and in the inside of the veil;
And the people had pity on them for Benjamin, because the Lord had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And David came to a quiet cry to Abimelech the priest, and said to him, Why are you, and no man with you?
Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Naham, the son of Michri, the son of the Hebronites, the son of Benjamin, the chief of the tribe of Benjamin.
And Abimelech went after him, and he went in flight before him; and a number of people had been put to death at the doorway of the doorway.
And he said to them, What have I done with you? is not the grapes of the grapes of Ephraim than the grapes of Abiezer?
And to the people of Hormah, and to the rulers of Pathros, and to those who were in war,
And they got up and went up to Beth-el, questioning God, and the children of Israel said, Who is going up for us at the time of war with the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said, At the first time, at the first.
Then Saul said to the people who were with him, Take care and see who has gone from us. And they took the number of the men who were with him, and there was no one there.
And when all who had knowledge of him before saw that he was a prophet of the prophets, the people said to one another, What is this that has come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
Her brothers have been cruel to her, and have been troubled by her, so that she has taken care of her, and the Lord has shut her up.
Let nothing be done by fighting, or by reason of glory; but in pride let every man be better than himself.
Now the ruler of the town was very angry, and the ruler of the town was very angry.
And Caleb said, He who is to take Kiriath Sepher and put it waste, will I give my daughter Achsah to wife.
And he said to him, O my Lord, if the Lord is with us, why has the Lord been with us? and where are all his wonders which our fathers said to us, Did not the Lord send us up out of Egypt? But now the Lord has turned us away, and has given us up into the hands of the Midianites.
And to whom he gave an oath that he would not go into his rest, but to those who were not faith?
If he says, It is well, your servant will have peace; but if he is very angry, be certain that evil is given by him.
And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord, and the spices which were with it, in which the gold ornaments were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burned offerings and burned offerings on the same day to the Lord.
And death came to his death in Beth-lehem.
And they sent representatives again to the king of the children of Ammon, saying,
He makes selection of new gods, and war at the doors; there is no covering for him, and a spear among forty thousand in Israel.
And he put out his left hand and took the sword from his right leg and put it in his body.
And Saul put his spear on him to put him to death; and Jonathan was certain that his father had put David to death.
But I have joy in the Lord for ever, so that you may have life in your thoughts for me, in which you have been thought, but you have no part.
In faith he went out from the land of Egypt, and was not afraid of the wrath of the king: for when he saw the sign, he was put to death.
And the responsible men of Gilead said to them, The Lord will be a witness between us, and we will do as you say.
Give ear to the voice of the Lord, for the name of the Lord is the name of the Lord.
And she said to the son of Barachel, See, you have made sport of me, and have given me a word of deceit: now give me word with which you may be kept.
And they put the house of Ashtaroth, and put them in the wall of Beth-Shan.
Only that the children of Israel might have knowledge of them, to give orders to them at the least time, as before before,
And the Lord said to the children of Israel, Did I not give you salvation from the Egyptians and the Amorites and the children of Ammon and the Philistines?
And the gold which was in addition to the number of the towns of the Philistines, and the five parts of the towns, from the walled town to the unwalled town, and the great Abel, which they put down the ark of the Lord till that day in the field of Jeshua the Gittite.
And the children of Israel put away the Baals and Ashtaroth and the Lord only.
And Saul said, Come near, all you chiefs of the people, and see, and see where this sin has been this day.
And again, when he took the first child into the world, he said, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And part of them were part of the same way with shame and troubles, and part of those who were living in the same way.
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said, and they put the three sons of Anak out of there.
And the man went out of the town, out of the town of Beth-lehem, to get a place where he was able to get a place; and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, as he went on.
And they gave news to Saul that the people had evil against the Lord, and they were feasting with the blood. And he said, You have done wrong, and here is a great stone here.
Cursed is the curse, says the angel of the Lord, curse the people who are living in it: for they did not come to the help of the Lord, to the help of the Lord among the strong.
And after this he had love for a woman in the valley of Babylon, and her name was named by her name.
And the spirit of God went on Saul's ears, and he was very angry.
And Samuel said to the cutting of the skin, Take the land which I have given you, and give it to you.
And Samuel took a stone and put it between Mizpah and burning it, and gave it the name of it, saying, This is the end of the Lord's help.
And the olive-tree said, Am I not to take away the oil of my oil, which is by me, and men are honoured, to go on the trees?
And when Saul saw that he was wise, he was full of fear.
And they were stoning with stones, and they were dead in two; they were dead by the sword; they were wandering in the skin of sheep, in the skin of wool, in the poor, and in cruel pain.
And when I saw this, I put my life in my hands and went over against the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into my hands: what have I done wrong, that you may go up against me?
And he said to David, You are more upright than I am: for you have been good to me, but I have done evil to you.
From now on, waiting for ever, till his haters are made his feet.
And I will send the young man, saying, Go and see the arrows. If I say to the boy, See, the arrows are on this side of you, take them; then come, for there is peace for you, and it is nothing: the Lord is living.
And the Philistines were fighting, and Israel was put to death, and every man went in flight to his tent: and there was a very great slaughter, and thirty thousand footmen were there.
And he made himself a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he put it on his robe on his right leg.
And David said to him, Now you are to see what your servant will do. And he said to David, I will give you my life for ever.
But give thought to the old days, in which you are light, and you have undergone a great fight.
See, I will put a wool of wool on the grain-floor; if there be dew on the wool, and it is dry on all the earth, I will see that you will keep Israel by my hand, as you have said.
But I am troubled between the two parts, having the desire to go away and to be with Christ: for this is very much better.
For every house is made by men, but God who made everything is God.
And she said, Truly, I will go with you, and there will be no glory for you in the way you are taking, for the Lord will give the price of Sisera into the hands of a woman. And she got up and went with her face to Kedesh.
For I am certain that this will give me salvation through your prayer, and by the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
And if a man has come after you to go after you, and for looking for your life, the soul of my lord will be shut in the band of the living with the Lord your God; and the souls of your haters will be put to flight from the hollow of the sling.
And the rest of Israel was stopped in Israel; and when it came to the end, when it came to the end, when it came to the end, when it came to the end of the children of Israel, so that the mother of Israel came up to the earth.
So let us go back to the senses of Christ, so that we may be able to be full of old faith, not a builder of sin and faith in God.
For they were not able to keep the word, saying, If any beast is touching the mountain, let it be stoned.
And he took them before the king of Moab; and they were living with him all the time when David was in the high place.
And when he came to the tents of Midian, he said, See, I have had a dream, and a cake of barley is turned over into the tents of Midian, and it goes into the tents and overcame it, and it will fall and be turned up, and the tent will fall.
But I have all things, and have increased; I am full, and have taken away the things which come from you, a sweet smell, a sweet smell, an offering pleasing to God.
And David went in flight from the town of Ramah, and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is my sin? and what is my sin before your father, so that he is looking for my life?
So then, brothers and sisters, have faith in the most holy place by the blood of Christ.
And Jonathan sent for David and told him all these words. And Jonathan took David to Saul, and he was before him as before.
And having been made upright, was to all those who keep him safe for ever.
And the five chiefs of the Philistines saw, and they went back to Ekron on the same day.
But we may not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel have made an oath, saying, Cursed be he who gives a wife to Benjamin.
Where your fathers have tested me, and have seen my works,
And the kings came and made war with the kings of Canaan, and the kings of Taanach, and the waters of Megiddo, and they took no profit.
Let all my prayers be in all my prayers for you all.
And they said, You have not done wrong to us, or have you crushed us, or taken from the hands of any one.
And David said to Ahimelech the Hittite and Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, Who will go down with me to Saul in the tent-circle? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
So then he is to be like the people, so that he may give for sin.
Have him therefore with all joy in the Lord, and give him honour as he is.
And the man of yours will not be cut off from my altar, so that your eyes may be wasted and bitter, and all the increase of your house will be dead in their strength.
The children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who did not come up in the church to the Lord? because they had made a great oath against him who did not come up to the Lord at Mizpah, saying, He will certainly be put to death.
And he said to his servants, The Lord has mercy on me, so that I may not do such things to my master the king of the Lord, to put my hand on him, because he is the Lord's selection.
And she said to him, How can you say, I have love for you, when your heart is not with me? these three times have you made sport of me, and you have not given me the news of your power.
And the Spirit of the Lord came to him in the tents of Dan, between Zorah and Sharon.
And the Spirit of the Lord was to take him from the land of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.
Then David said, O Lord, the God of Israel, let your servant be certain that Saul is looking for a purpose to go to Keilah, to put destruction on the town for my name.
And the five chiefs of the Philistines saw and went back to Ekron on that day.
So that you may not be in the way of the hater, but are guided by the example of those who are by faith and by the strong faith.
Now the first law was holy and the holy place.
And when Saul saw that he was wise, he was afraid of him.
And Judah was fighting against Jerusalem; and they took it, put it to the sword, and put the town on fire.
By which will we be made holy through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
Now Abimelech was king over Israel for three years.
If only some man would put this people under my hand, so that I might send out Abimelech out of the way. And it was said to Abimelech, Come together and come.
And how will we get away if we go from the way of salvation, which is the first to be said by the Lord, and have been made true to us by those who have given ear to him?
And Saul said, Give me a burned offering and peace-offerings; and he gave the burned offering.
And he said to them, If you do this, I will take care of you, and I will put an end to you.
And David said to Abiathar, I have seen that day when the Edomites are there, he will say to Saul, I have taken care of all the house of your father.
And the children of Israel went to Eglon to Eglon, the king of Moab, for eighteen years.
The young asses are seated on white asses, and they are seated on a long robe; they have designs on the way.
And we went to the south of the Cherethites and the property of Judah and the south of Caleb, and we made a fire with fire.
But strong food is to those who are of full age, and those who have knowledge of use have knowledge of good and evil.
And Jonathan said, Far be this from you: for if I had knowledge that my father was against you, I would not do anything to say to you.
And this is the agreement which I will make for them after those days, says the Lord: I will give my laws in their hearts, and on their minds I will put them in writing:
And one of the same place said, Who is their father? So it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hands of Israel, and they overcame them; and Israel took all the land of the Amorites, living in that country.
And Jonathan said to the young man who took his hands, Come, and we will go over to the place of these unclean men: it may be the Lord's work for us: for there is no division to the Lord by number of or small.
My heart is to the chiefs of Israel, who gave themselves to the people. Give praise to the Lord.
At that time, when he was put down in his place, his eyes became dark, so that he might not see.
And Moses was put in prison for three months of his father, because they saw that he was a child, and they were not afraid of the king's orders.
And he said, Seventy kings, with their thumbs and toes and toes, took grain under my table: as I have done, so God has given me punishment. And they took him to Jerusalem, and there he was dead.
Now I would have knowledge of you, brothers, that the things which came to me have gone to the end of the good news.
And the five men went to search out the land of Laish, and said to their brothers, Do you see that there is in these houses an ephod and false gods and an image of metal and a metal image? Now see what you have to do.
And let us be looking for one another to make love and good works.
And the man, the son of Elkanah, and all his family, went up to give offerings to the Lord for the year of the year, and for his word.
And so that I may say to you, Levi, who takes the tenth part of it, give the tenth part in Abraham.
So they turned their backs before the men of Israel, to the way of the waste land; but the war overtook them; and those who came out of the towns were crushed among them.
And on the morning the spirit of grief was increased over Saul, and he was a prophet in the middle of the house; and David was with his hands, as day by day, and the spear in Saul's hands.
Even as the old words say, From the evil and evil things go out, but my hand will not be against you.
But a man has come after you to go after you, and to search for your soul; but the soul of my lord will be shut up in the bag of life with the Lord your God; and the souls of your haters will be put to flight, as out of the middle of a sling.
And the children of Israel saw that it was too hard for them, because the people were cruel, and the people went secretly in the holes and in the holes and in the holes and in the store-houses and in the holes.
And David was living in Gath, he and his men, every man with his house, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelite.
So that, brothers and sisters, had no fear in the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
And a certain woman put a sharp stone on the head of Abimelech, and he was broken by his head.
And the people said to Saul, Will Jonathan be put to death, who has done this great salvation in Israel? As the Lord lives, there will not one hair of his head fall to the earth, because he has been working with God today. So the people took up Jonathan, and he did not put death.
And the men with David said to him, See, we are troubled here in Judaea, how much more if we go to Keilah against the Philistines?
And he said, Because of the sharp part of a ass, and in masses of wood, I have put a sword on a thousand.
And after that, David's heart overcame him, because he had cut off his robe.
For every house is made by another, but God who made all things is God.
And Israel and the Philistines made ready for war, with all the army.
And Micaiah said to him, Where have you come from? And he said to him, I am a Levite, and I am living in the land of Judah, where I may be living there.
So now go back and go in peace, so that you may not be angry in shame against the lords of the Philistines.
And Jair came to death, and was put to death in tents.
And Saul and all Israel had news of the words of the Philistines, and they were troubled and full of fear.
For it is God who works in you both to do and to do his good pleasure.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and made war with all his haters, against Moab and against the children of Ammon and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah and against the Philistines; and he was cruel to them.
And the men came to Saul's house at Gibeah, and said the words in the ears of the people, and all the people were weeping and weeping.
What then? In this way, or by the word, or by the true faith, I will be glad and will be glad.
Then Samuel took a stone, put it between Mizpah, and gave it the name of it, saying, This is the way the Lord has given us.
And Saul said to him, Why have you made a design against me, you and the son of Jesse, in which you gave him bread and a sword, and get directions of God for him, so that he might come against me, and be waiting, as it is today?
And he went up by the way of those who were living in tents, on the east of the east, and overcame the tents of the haters, who were safe, and had no fear.
And he came to the divisions of Israel, and said to them, Why have you come out to get ready for war? I am the Philistines and you servants of Saul. Choose a man for you, and let him come down to me.
Why do you take up the hands and the feeble knees?
And the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, and the Lord gave them up a saviour, and said, Ehud, the son of Gera, the man of Benjamin, a man from his left hand. And the children of Israel sent a present with him, king of Moab.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead had news of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
Saying before, before giving offerings and offerings and burned offerings for sin, they are not pleasing to you, which are given by the law.
Then Samuel gave orders to the people, and he put it on a book and put it before the Lord; and all the people went to his house.
And Saul sent representatives to Jesse, saying, Send me your son David, who is with the sheep.
And the son of Obed was weeping, and said, Who is Abimelech, and what is Shechem, that we may serve him? is he not the son of Micah, whose servant was ruler over the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? why then will we serve him?
And when they came back from the death of the Philistines, the women came out of all the towns of Israel, singing and dancing, to see King Saul with timbrels and with joy and with long instruments.
So I have given him orders to the Lord all the days of his life, and he will be given to the Lord. And she said,
So Saul went back and went away after David, and went to the Philistines; for they were named that place, the Rock of division.
And it came about that Abimelech went on the town all that day; and he took it and put it to death and put salt in it.
And he said to him, If I have found grace in your eyes, let me see a sign that you are talking with me.
And Eber, the Kenites, was parted from the Kenites, from the sons of Hobab, Moses; and he stretched out his tent as far as the great tree, which is in the land of Canaan.
But they did not give ear to their judges, for they went after other gods and put themselves low to them, turning away from the way of their fathers, and did not do so.
And the sons of Benjamin went out against the people, and they were taken away from the town, attacking the people at the past, in the road which goes down to Beth-el and the other at Gibeah in the field, of the thirty men of Israel.
For this cause, if there is any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if there is a part of the Spirit, if any man has pity on his soul,
And he said to him, This is what says: Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon;
And when they came and saw Eliab, he said, Truly the Lord's selection is before him.
And he said to him, If now I have found grace in your eyes, give me a sign that you are talking with me.
And he went on to Ramah, and came to a great water-spring, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, See, they are at Ramah.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said to him, See, the man whom I have said to you will be king over my people.
And the men of Jabesh-gilead said, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you will do with us all that seems good to you.
And he took the people down to the water, and the Lord said to him, You are to take away all those who make themselves waste with his tongue, like a dog from those who are falling down.
And Saul said to the Lord, O Lord, the God of Israel, give us a sign, by which we may have knowledge of the sense of your servant; if this sin is in me or in my son Jonathan, or if this sin is in your people, let us be holy. And Jonathan and Saul were taken away, and the people got away.
Then you, O Lord, come down with my people, O Lord; come down with me among the strong ones.
Say, I pray you, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, who are to be ruler over you of seventy men ( as well as all the children of war), or the ruler over you, and that I am your bone and your flesh?
And the oxen went straight through the road to Beth-shemesh; and they went by the way, straight as they went; they did not turn to the right or to the left; and the chiefs of the Philistines went after them to the edge of Beth-shemesh.
Now I say, I will not send them out from before you; they will be like thorns for you, and their gods will be a net for you.
And the children of Israel sent men to all the families of Benjamin, saying, What evil is this that has been done among you?
This is the agreement which I will make with them after those days, says the Lord, giving my laws in their hearts, and on their minds I will send them.
Make a question to your young men, and they will say to you, Why let the young men be glad in your eyes, for we come in a good day: give it to your servants, and to your son David.
Be imitators of me, brothers, and take care of those who are living in this way, as you have us.
Then all the children of Israel and all the people went up and came to Beth-el, weeping and resting there before the Lord, without food till evening, and offered burned offerings and peace-offerings before the Lord.
One tenth of your seed and of your vine-gardens, and give it to his servants and his servants.
For the law, having a shade of the good to come, is not able to make the image of it, or the same as a year offering year by year, to make perfect those who come near.
But make clear to the memory of the first days, in which you were full of knowledge, you have undergone a great outcry of grief:
Happy be you, who have kept me to day, from coming to blood, and against my right hand.
This is still greater, if after the image of Melchizedek there was another priest,
And he took his rod which he had ever in his hands, and took him five smooth stones out of the stream, and put them into the care which he had with him; and he took a sling in his hand and went out against the Philistines.
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, was over the house; and they gave directions to the Lord and said, Will we go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said to them, Go up, for tomorrow I will give them into your hands.
For in that he himself has been tested by himself, he is able to help those who are troubled.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner, the son of Ner, the father of Saul.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from you: for if I had knowledge that my father would come on you, would I not give it to you?
And David got up and went away that day for fear of Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
And the king said, You will certainly be put to death, you and your father's house.
For such as the chief priest did, so that we might have mercy on the evil and free from the sinners, and made us higher than heaven,
Then the chiefs of the Philistines came up to her seven water-cords, which had not been dry, and put him in chains with them.
But there came to the tents of the Rechabites, the wife of Rahab, the wife of the Rechabites: for there was peace between Jabin, the king of Hazor, and the house of the Rechabites.
And Saul said to Jonathan, Give me what you have done. And Jonathan said to him, I have had a little honey in the end of the rod which was in my hand, and I will be put to death.
And the children of Judah were fighting against Jerusalem, took it, and put it on the edge of the sword, and put the town on fire.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil and put oil on him in the middle of his brothers; and the Spirit of the Lord came on David from that day forward. And Samuel got up and went to Ramah.
Then Saul and the men of Israel came together and put up their tents in the valley of God, and they made themselves ready for war against the Philistines.
And Saul sent for the people, numbering them in flight, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And give good blessing to you, and blessing you in that you have kept me from coming in with blood, and put my hand on myself.
And you will cry out in that day because of your king's selection, and the Lord will give you no answer in that day.
By faith they went through the Red Sea as by the dry land, which the Egyptians had said to do.
And at the death of the judge they have gone back and have done evil more than their fathers, to go after other gods, to be their servants, and to give worship to them: they have not gone from their evil ways, and from their stiff way.
And they were stoning, and were put to death: they were put to death by the death of the sword, and they went about in the skin of sheep, in the skin of wool, and in need of food, and of evil, and of evil.
And crying out to the children of Dan, they turned their faces and said to Micah, What is your business, that you go with such a company?
And the wise men went with the responsible men of Gilead, and the people made him head and head over them; and they gave birth to all his words before the Lord at Mizpah.
But he, when he had offered a sin-offering for sins, was seated in righteousness at the right hand of God,
And the Philistines said, I have made a protest against the army of Israel this day: give me a man, so that we may be fighting together.
And Phinehas his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was near to be given birth; and when she had news that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband was dead, she was bent on her face and gave birth to pain, for her pain came on her.
And the men of Ephraim said to him, Why have you done this to us, that you did not let us go, when you went to fight against the Midianites? And they were cruel to him.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the towns, thirty-six thousand men of war, besides the men of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
Do you not take the heritage of your god Chemosh? and whatever the Lord our God has put out before us, so that we may take their property.
And she made him sleep on her knees; and she was crying for a man, and she cut off the seven hair of his head; and she became cruel to him, and his strength went from him.
And where there is forgiveness of them, there is no more offering for sin.
Now go and take away Amalek, and put an end to all that they have, and do not have pity on them, but take away the man and woman and the nursing child and the ox and the sheep and the camel and the ass.
If you have respect for the Lord and have been his servant, and have given ear to his voice, you will not make the mouth of the Lord to be angry with you, you and the king who has ruled over you, after the Lord your God.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the death of death, crowned with glory and glory, so that he might give death to every man.
And she is bitter in soul, and makes prayer to the Lord, weeping bitterly.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil and put oil on him in the middle of his brothers; and the spirit of the Lord went on David from that day on. And Samuel got up and went to Ramah.
And give food and food for our asses, and bread and wine for me and for your woman-servant and for the young man with your servants; there is no need of anything.
And the responsible men of the people said, How are we to do for the women who are left, seeing that the women are cut off from Benjamin?
Not according to the agreement which I made with their fathers, in the day when I took them by the hand to take them out of the land of Egypt: for they did not keep my agreement, and I was shut up, says the Lord.
And she gave the boy a name, saying, The glory of Israel has gone away from Israel, talking to the ark of God and her father-in-law and husband.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and made war with the Philistines; and they took their cattle and gave them a great blow. So David made the people of Keilah free.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered in that day, out of the towns twenty thousand men from the town of Gibeah, seven hundred men.
And they came to the top of the town of Gibeah, with ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and they had no knowledge of the destruction of them.
And you will say, Because of this, when the Lord has given destruction and Zalmunna to destruction, I will let your flesh be broken with the thorns of the waste land and with thorns.
For I have given you a great number of the way which I have said to you frequently, and now you are crying, that they are the haters of the cross of Christ:
And they took all the land of the Amorites from the Arnon to the Jabbok, and from the waste land to the Jordan.
See, here is my virgin daughter and his wife: I will send them out now, and let them be put to shame and do with them what seems good to you: but to this man do not do any foolish thing.
By faith they went through the Red Sea as by the dry land, which the Egyptians said to do.
Give your word to me by the Lord, that you will not take away my seed after me, or take my name from my father's house.
But on the third day you will go down quickly, and come to the place where you have been kept in secret on the day of the business, and stay by the stone of Ephraim.
And the men of the town said to him on the seventh day, What is better than honey is better than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? and he said to them, If you had not been ploughing with my cow, you had not seen my knowledge.
And after him was Shelomoth, the son of Shelomoth; and he overcame the Philistines, and he gave them up for six hundred men with the oxen; and he gave salvation to Israel.
Say to it, You who are seated on white asses, you who are seated in delicate clothing, you who go by the way.
And it came to pass, when all his friends came before, seeing that he had prophets of prophets, they said one to another, What has happened to the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?
But Sihon did not put his faith in Israel by his side; but Sihon went together with all his people and put up their tents in Jahaz, attacking Israel.
And you are crying out in that day because of the king whom you have taken for yourselves, and the Lord will not give you an answer in that day.
And his servants gave orders to David these words, and the thing was right in the eyes of David, to be a son-in-law to the king, and the days had not been full.
And the five men who went to search out the land went up there, and took the image and the ephod and the images and the metal images, and the priest was at the door of the doorway with the six hundred men armed with instruments of war.
Now when he had made an end of offering the burned offering, he saw that Samuel was coming; and Saul went out to see him, so that he might send his love.
And David had faith in David, saying, He has made himself an hated thing among his people in Israel, and he will be my servant for ever.
And she took the cords and put him in chains, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, the Philistines. And they put in waiting in the inner room, and took them from his arms like a thread.
And when David had news in the waste land, the man of Nabal was shearing his sheep,
Then the war-bands of the horse were broken, and the sound of the horn was lifted up.
As touching passion, so cruel is cruel to the church; as touching the righteousness which is in the law, there is no wrong.
Because of the good news from the first day till now.
Let this be in you, which is in Christ Jesus:
But after the death of the dead, the children of Israel turned again and made themselves unclean with the Baals, and made a agreement with Baal, to be their god.
So David took note of his men, and did not let them go up against Saul; and Saul got up from the hole and went on his way.
And now, O king, is your king, whom you have marked out and made request: See, the Lord has given you a king.
And the Lord said to the people of Israel, The people are still more, and I will make them go down to the water, and I will make them search for you there: and it will be that of whom I say to you, This will go with you; and whoever I say to you will not go with you; the same will not go with you.
And when the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord about Midian,
And he said to them, Out of the hands of the living men come out bread, and from the strong, sweet food; for three days they were not able to make clear the sense.
And Phinehas, the wife of Phinehas, was with child in order to give birth; and when she had news that the ark of God was taken, and that her father was dead, and her husband was dead, she went down on her face and gave birth to pain, for her pains came on her.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they went to the Baals.
Give praise to Jesse, and I will make clear to you what you are to do: you will put oil on me whom I have named you.
But you have knowledge of the sign of him, that, as a son with his father, he has worked with me in the good news.
And he took his rod in his hand, and took away five smooth stones out of the valley; and he put them in the bag of the bag in the bag; and he went with his voice to the Philistines.
And the woman quickly went and told her husband, and she said to him, See, the man who came to me has come to me.
And he put in flight the town at Nob, the town of the priests, and the child, and the child, and the ox, and the ass, and the sheep, and all the sword.
And Adam said to his wife, We will certainly be put to death, for we have seen God.
For when God made a oath to Abraham, he made an oath by no greater, saying,
And he said, Against whom have you been cruel to this day? David said, To the south of Judah, and against the south of the father of Jerahmeel, and against the land of the Kenites.
And Deborah, the son of Abinadab, was on that day, saying,
For some of them, even through envy and fighting, and some of the grace of God, have the word of Christ.
And the sons of Benjamin went out to fight against the people; and they took them away from the town, and made war on the people in the direction of Beth-el, which goes up to Beth-el, the other to Gibeah, and in the field there were about thirty men of Israel.
And he said to him, Far be it from it; you will not be put to death. See, my father does nothing great or small, but that he has given it to me, and why am my father veiled from me? It is not so.
Then David got up and went out of the hole, crying out after Saul, saying, My lord the king: and when Saul was looking after him, David bent with his face to the earth and made himself low.
And the children of Israel went back to the children of Benjamin, and put them to death by the edge of the sword outside the town, and all the towns which were seen: and all the towns which were seen they sent into fire.
For this reason it is necessary to take care of the things which have been given to the ears, so that we may not go past.
And you, O Lord, have put the earth on the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hands;
But when the judge was dead, they turned back and made themselves more sinners than their fathers had gone after other gods to worship them, and to give worship to them: and they did not give up what they were doing, or give up their hearts.
And after that, he had a wife in the valley of birth, whose name was named by name.
And she said to the son of Barachel, Say to me, I pray you, in what is your strength, and that you may be strong enough to overcome you.
Now when Samuel was dead, all Israel had a grief for him, and they had him put in prison in Ramah, in his town; and Saul had put away the readers of spirits and the readers of men from the land.
By faith, Noah, who was a witness of things which was not seen, was moved with fear, making a ship for the salvation of his house, when he made the world free, and became the heritage of the righteousness of righteousness.
And he said to them, This is what the Lord has said to you: When the Lord has given birth to you, I will be crushing your flesh with thorns and thorns.
And on that day about ten thousand men of Moab, all strong men, and all men of war, were not taken away.
But without faith, it is hard to please: for he who comes near to God will have faith that he is, and he is a reward to those who are searching for him.
And the Philistines put on him and put out his eyes; and they took him down to Gaza, and put him in chains of brass, crushing him in prison.
And the Philistines took him, and took out his eyes, and put him down to the slope of Gaza, and put him in chains with chains of brass, crushing him in the prison-house.
But his wife said to him, If the Lord was pleased to put us to death, he would not have given us a burned offering and a meal offering at our hands, or would he have given us all these things, or as at this time.
And the Lord said to the king, Because of the people who are with you for whom I give Midian into their hands, so that Israel will not give glory to me, saying, My hand has given me salvation;
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and they gave no memory of the Lord their God, and they gave worship to the Baals and the Asherah.
And Samuel said, What is this that of the sheep which I give hearing in my hearing and the voice of the cattle which I am hearing?
Then Samuel got up early to see Saul in the morning, and it was said to Samuel, ``Saul has come in to Carmel, and he is put up to himself a pillar, going round and going down to Gilgal.
And the five men went to spy out the land of Laish, and said to their brothers, Do you see that there is in these houses an ephod and false gods and a metal image and a metal image? now take note what you have to do.
And they gave birth to the name of the town Dan, after the name of Dan their father; but the name of the town was Achsah at the first.
And the people took the goods, and took sheep and oxen and oxen and put to death on the earth, and the people took food with the blood.
And the priest said to them, Go in peace: before the Lord is your way in which you go.
And Judah said to Simeon, his brother, Come with me into my country, so that we may fight against the Canaanite, and I will go with you in the same way. So Simeon went with him.
For all who are living in milk are not seen in the word of righteousness, because he is a child.
And Saul went on his way to the house of Benjamin, and there went with him a band of the army whose heart had been touched.
You will see the troubles of my house, in all the wealth which I will give Israel; and there will be no old man in your house for ever.
And he said, Let me go to death with the Philistines; and when he was shaking the pillars, the house was moved on all the rulers, and the rest of the people who were there; and he was put to death in his death more than ever before he was put to death.
The trees said to the vine, Come, and let us rule over us.
Saul was a year old when he became king, and he was king of Israel for two years.
And they gave orders to the king of the children of Ammon, saying,
And the children of Israel were living among the Canaanites, the Hittite and the Amorites and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite:
So now go down, as your soul has desired to come down; and our business will be handed over to the king's hands.
For it is hard for those who had been made up by the light, and had tasted the grace of heaven, and were given in the Holy Spirit.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to their voice, make them a king. And Samuel said to the men of Israel, Go every man to his town.
And we went to the south of the Cherethites and the property of Judah and the south of Caleb, and we put fire on him.
And all the responsible men of Israel came together and came to the town of Samuel in Ramah.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the chiefs of the Philistines were there; and there were on the roof about three thousand men and women, who were looking for sport of the king.
And they had knowledge of the voice of the young man, the Levite, and they went with him and said to him, Who sent you here? why have you come here?
See and see all his holes in which he says, and come back to me with the knowledge of the thing, so that I may go with you; and if you go down to the earth, I will send him out in all the thousands of Judah.
And Saul sent messengers to David, saying, Give him up to me in the bed, so that I may put him to death.
And Cush and Puah and Samuel and Samuel gave you out of the hand of your haters on every side, and you were living in peace.
And a cake of a cake of figs, and two cakes of dry grapes; and when he had taken them back again, he was given rest: for he had not had enough of bread, or had water for three days and three nights.
And the king said, Israel has gone in flight before the Philistines, and there has been a great slaughter among the people, and your two sons, the chief of the Levites, and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And the people came to Beth-el and stayed there before God; and they lifted up their voices and cried bitterly.
And the vine said to them, Have I come to rest from my new wine, glad gods and men, that I have gone wandering on the trees?
And the Holy Spirit was in writing, so that the way into the holy place was not seen while the first tabernacle was still standing.
Then the Philistines went up into the land of Judah, and put up their tents in the place where they had been named Kibroth-hattaavah, where their army was stretched out.
And Samuel went in sleep till the morning, opening the doors of the house of the Lord. And Samuel was honoured before the vision,
And they said, If you send the ark of the God of Israel away, do not send it away empty, but give it back with a sin-offering, and you will be made well, and it will be clear to you that his hand is not turned away from you.
And he said to him, See now, there is in this town a man of God, and he is a man of honour, and all that he says, Let us go there, if he is able to give us directions on our way on which we go.
And he said, Go in peace, and let the God of Israel give your request which you have asked of him.
And when you go, you will come to the quiet people, and the land is great: for God has given it into your hands, a place where there is no need of anything in the earth.
And the lords of the Philistines came up to her, and said to her, Let him go and see the great strength of his strength, and let us take care of him, so that we may be cruel to him, and let us give you eleven hundred shekels of silver.
And the men of war came to an end; they were not seen in Israel till I, laughing, got up as a mother in Israel.
And he said to them, Take care of me, and do the same; and when I come to the outskirts of the tent-circle, do as I do.
And they got up early in the morning and gave worship before the Lord, and went back to the house of Ramah, and Elkanah had connection with his wife, and the Lord gave her mind.
Because it is made ready for men to be put to death once, and after this cause,
And when the king of Goshen came, he went on living in his house.
And one said to another, Who is their father? So it was said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, See as to Zebah and Zalmunna, against whom you made sport of me, saying, Is the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, that we may give food to your men who are tired?
And when the people came into the wood, they saw the honey dropped, but no man put his hand to his mouth: for the people were afraid of the oath.
And he went to himself with the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and overcame Israel; and they took their hands on their hands.
And Saul gave ear to the voice of Jonathan, saying, As the Lord is living, he will not be put to death.
And she said to him, Give me a blessing; when you gave me the south land, you gave me the springs of water: and Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
Go down before me to Gilgal; and see, I will come down to you, to make burned offerings and peace-offerings, seven days till I come to you and make you clear what you are to do.
And David got up and came to the place where Saul had put up his tents; and David saw the place where Saul had been there, and Abner, the son of Ner, was head of his army, and Saul was lying in the road, and the people were round about him.
Then Israel sent representatives to the king of Edom, saying, Let me go through your land: but the king of Edom would not give ear to it. And they sent to the king of Moab, but he would not give orders: and Israel stayed in Kadesh.
And when I blow the horn, I and all who are with me, blow the horns on every side of all the tent-circle, saying, For the Lord and for the rod.
And they took two men of Midian at the direction of Oreb and Abiram, and put them to death at the rock of Oreb and in the wine press; and they went after Midian, driving the heads of Oreb and Abiram on the other side of the Jordan.
Make strong your hearts and become men, O Philistines, or do the work of the Hebrews, as they have done to you: then you have become men and have made war.
Give your word to me by the Lord, that you will not take away my seed after me, or take my name from my father's house.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her friends, weeping bitterly on the mountains.
And Saul was living in the farthest part of the mountains, under the tops of the pomegranate; and the people who were with him were about six hundred men.
At the same time he gave him grief that day; and at Ziklag, the kings of Judah, to this day.
If there is any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if there is a part of the Spirit, if one has mercy and mercy,
Seeing that we have a great high priest who has gone into heaven, Jesus, the Son of God, let us keep our faith.
And he changed his way before them, and tricked himself with deceit in their hands, and had gone into the doors of the door, and let his face come down on his face.
For this cause even the first agreement has not been made holy without blood.
And he said to them, I will be more upright than the Philistines, and I will be angry with them.
And when they came down from the high place into the town, he went with Saul on the roof.
And Samuel said to Saul, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, for you are to take care of me today: in the morning I will let you go and say to you everything in your hearts.
And the peace of God, which is greater in all knowledge, will keep your hearts and thoughts in Christ Jesus.
And his war-men said to him, Do all that is in your heart: let them be turned back; see, I am with you in your heart.
And all the men of war got up and went all night, and took Saul's body and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh and burned them there.
For this is my prayer, and the Lord has given me my request:
And the woman said to him, Whom am I to give you up? And he said, Give me up to Samuel.
And they took what was named by him, and the priest whom he had, and came in against the people of Moab, with quiet and quiet men, and put them to death by the sword, and the town burned with fire.
And the children of Israel went up from there, every man to his father and his family, and every man went out to his heritage.
If you have respect for the Lord, and be his servant, and give ear to his voice, and do not go against the word of the Lord, you and the king who rules over you will go after the Lord your God.
And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, a hundred and ten years old.
And not by the blood of the he-goats and of the herd, but in the blood of his blood, he went into the most holy place, to give eternal salvation.
And he said to God, If you will keep Israel by my hand, you will say,
And Jonathan said, My father has troubled the land; see that my eyes are shining, for I have tasted a little of this honey.
For such a high priest has been given to us, holy, without knowledge, without number, cut off from sinners, and made higher than heaven.
And when he came back to his mother, his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave it to the metal workman, and made it into an image of metal, and it was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Ephraim were named together, and went past the north, and said to them, Why have you come to fight against the children of Ammon, and have not been crying with us? your house is burned with fire.
And Saul was in fear of David, because the Lord was with him and went away from himself.
And the Spirit of the Lord went before him, and took the lion, cutting off a he-goat, and gave it to his father and mother, saying,
And Jonathan said to Saul his father, Why should he be put to death? what has he done?
And it came to pass in the day of the fight, that there was no sword or spear in the hand of any of the people who were with Saul and Jonathan, but with Saul and his son Jonathan.
Saul was a son of one year when he became king, and he ruled for two years over Israel.
And Ahijah, the son of Ahitub, the brother of Shua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli, the priest of the Lord at Shiloh, took an ephod; and they did not see that Jonathan had gone.
And the servants of David came to Abigail to Carmel and said to her, David has sent us to you to take you to himself for a wife.
And David said, Truly I have kept all that this man has in the waste land, so that nothing has been turned from him; he has given me evil for good.
And the bands of war came out from the tent-circle of the Philistines in three bands: one went to the way of Ophrah, to the land of weeping.
And he has changed his way before their eyes, and makes himself angry with their hands, and put on the doors of the door, and let loose his face to his face.
For it is impossible for you to take away the blood of the ox and the he-goats.
And the things which you have knowledge of, and have given ear and hearing and seen in me these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
And he said to them, Food came out of the flesh, and out of the strong strength came sweet; and in three days they were able to make clear the sense.
And let it be seen in him, not having my approval, but that which is of the law, but that which is of the faith of Christ Jesus, who is right in faith.
And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, In this condition I will make a agreement with you, so that I may put out all your right eyes and put it to shame on all Israel.
And he said to them, If you have done this, I will take punishment on you, and after that I will put an end to you.
You have said this day how you have done well with me, because the Lord has given me up into your hand, and you have not put me to death.
And when he had made an end of talking, he put his face away from his hands, and named that place was Ramah.
The mountains were moved from before the Lord, even the Lord, the God of Israel.
Then Saul said to the Lord, the God of Israel, Give ear to the right; and Jonathan and Saul were taken by much, but the people got away.
And he was in need of water, and said to the Lord, You have given this great salvation by the hand of your servant: and now I will be put to death in need of water and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised.
And all these words were given to him by his mother's brothers, saying, He is our relation.
And the children of Naphtali did not send out the people of Beth-shemesh, or the people of Ramah; but he was living among the Canaanites, and the people of the land: but the people of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-shemesh became forced to work for them.
But a man went in flight, and went after him, and took him, cutting off his hands and his great toes.
And on that day he made it a law and a law for Israel to this day.
And David said to the king, If I have found grace in your eyes, let them give me a place in one of the towns in the land, so that I may be there: why should your servant be living in the king's town?
There is a word of Christ, even of envy and argument, and some of good things.
But the Philistines took him and put out his eyes, and took him down to Gaza, and put him in chains of brass, crushing him in the prison.
And David got up and went away that day from Saul's face; and when he came to Moses, the king of Gath,
And they came to their brothers, in Zorah and Eshtaol, and their brothers said to them, What is you?
And his father-in-law, the daughter of the girl, kept him there; and he stayed with him for three days. So they took food and drink and were there.
So all the men of Benjamin who were put to death on that day were twenty-five thousand men, all able men.
And they took their seats and took their food and drink them together: for the young woman's father had said to the man, Be pleased, and keep the night, and let your heart be full of joy.
And he said to him, O my lord, the Lord is with us. And why has all this seen us? and where our fathers said to us, Has not the Lord brought us up out of Egypt? and now the Lord has gone away from us, and has given us into the hands of Midian.
The side of the north was at Michmash, at Michmash, and on the south side opposite Gibeah.
For this cause I am hoping to send back, so that I may see how to go with me.
And all the men of war went and went all night, and took Saul's body and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
And Shechem gave birth to a son, and he gave him Abimelech.
Who, through faith, overcame kingdoms, working righteousness, gave an oath, stopped the mouths of lions,
But the woman, at dawn, came to the door of the house where her lord was living, and there came down.
And the responsible men of Jabesh-gilead said to him, Let us alone for seven days, so that we may send representatives in all the country of Israel, and if there is no saviour for us, then we will come out to you.
And when the men of the town got up early in the morning, the altar of Baal was put down, and the Asherah was cut down by it, and the second ox was burned on the altar which was made.
And Saul overcame Amalek from Havilah, as you go to Shur, which is opposite Egypt.
Have no memory of those who are the guides of you, who have given you the word of God, whose faith is clear to you.
And the angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal, saying, I took you up out of the land of Egypt, and I took you to the land which I had given to your fathers, saying, I will not break my agreement with you.
And David went to Mizpah in Moab, and said to the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother come among you, till I see what God will do for me.
And she said to the son of Barachel, Say to me, Say to me, I am making a request for you, in which your strength is resting, and that you may be put to shame.
So Samuel came to all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken by lot.
So we see that they were not able to go in because of their faith.
And David said to him, Will you send me down to this band? And he said, Give me word by God, that you will not put me to death or give me up into my master's hands, and I will send you down to this band.
And David went up with his men, and they went to the land of the Geshurites and the Jebusite and the Amalekites ( for they were living in the land), when you came to Shur and to the land of Egypt.
And the son of Shimei said to her, If I have been bound with seven cords made of weariness, I will be feeble like other men.
And he took off his clothing, and said before Samuel, All that day and night he went without clothing, and said, Is Saul also among the prophets?
So they took two cows, which had the young oxen, and gave them up to the cart, and shut up their calves at the house.
And he said, Let me go, for our family has a meal in the town: my brother has given me orders to be there: now, if I have found grace in your eyes, let me go and see my brothers. And he has not come to the king's table.
And the Philistines said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of heaven and to the beasts of the field.
And his wife said to him, If the Lord had a mind to put us to death, he would not have given us a burned offering and a drink offering at our hands, and he would not have given us all these things, or give us an account of the things which are to come.
Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel; and the men of Israel had gone away from before the Philistines, and they came down dead on Mount Gilboa.
Let us take the hope of our hope without doubting, for he who has said is true.
And the sons of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and put destruction on Israel on that day, twenty-two thousand men on the earth.
For the House was made ready, the first part of the lampstand and the table and the bread of the Presence, which is called holy.
And they got up early in the morning and gave worship before the Lord, and went back to the house of Ramah: and Elkanah had knowledge of the wife of his wife, and the Lord remembered her.
And if it is a cooking pot, or a pot, or a pot, or a vessel, or a vessel, so the priest will take for himself; so that they may do to all Israel who are in Shiloh.
And they did not give mercy to the house of Hambaal, as the Lord had done for Israel.
And the children of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What evil is this that is done among you?
And when Saul had news that David was seen, and the men who were with him, Saul was seated in Gibeah, under the oak tree in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were round him.
For the Lord will not give up his people for the name of his great name, because the Lord has made a decision for you to be his people.
For then the children have been given in flesh and blood, so that in the same way he took some of the same, so that through death he might send to nothing who had the power of death, that is, the Evil One.
And Saul said to David, Happy be you, my son David: you are to do so much, and you will be overcome. So David went his way, and Saul went back to his place.
And the children of Benjamin did as they had been ordered; and after their number, they took away every man his wife of those who were dancing; and they went into their heritage, building up their towns and living in them.
And they said, What one is there among the tribes of Israel who came not up to the Lord at Mizpah? And see, there came no one to the tent-circle from Gilead to the people.
It is not good that you have done. As the Lord is living, you are to be put to death, because you have not kept your master, the king of the Lord; and now see where the spear is, and the water of water which was at his head.
So that you may be without knowledge and simple, answering the children of God in the middle of a twisted and evil generation: among whom you are seen as lights in the world,
If a man has sin against a man, then God has put him to death; but if a man is a sinner, who makes a prayer for him? and they do not give ear to the voice of their father, though the Lord was pleased to put them to death.
And Samuel sent the people to the Lord at Mizpah.
The kings came and made war, and the kings of Canaan made war by the waters of Megiddo, and they took no goods.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and they took the ark of the agreement of the Lord of armies, who is seated on the cherubim, and the two sons of the agreement, the chief of the Levites, were there with the ark of the agreement of God.
Now the Philistines came together with their armies, together with their armies, and went together to the town of Soco, and put up their tents between Geba and Geba.
That the cruel men of war might come, and put their blood on Abimelech their brother, and put them to death, and on the men of Shechem, who gave help to him in the blood of his brothers.
Let not my lord, I say, take note of this foolish man, even the sinner, for as his name is, and the sinner is his name, and the foolish thing is with him: but I your servant did not see the young men of my lord whom you sent.
And the child Samuel became greater and more in grace with the Lord and with men.
For even in the town of Thessalonica you sent to me once and again.
And Jonathan said to David, Come, and we will go out into the field; and they will go out into the field.
And she said to her young men, Go on before me. See, I come after you, but she gave no news to her husband.
They have been far from the family of Micah, and the men in the houses which are near the house of Micah have come together and overtake the children of Dan.
And he sent representatives through all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take from them the waters up to Beth-horon and the Jordan. And he sent out all the men of Ephraim, and took the waters up to Beth-horon and the Jordan.
And her wise women said to her, Yes, she says to herself,
And the son of Joash went to attack Baal, and put his living-place in his house.
And the six hundred men, armed with their weapons of war, were at the door of the doorway.
And Israel was put to shame because of Midian; and the children of Israel were crying to the Lord.
But if you still do evil, you and your king will be wasted.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And David said to the king, See, you may see what your servant is to do. And he said to David, Truly, I will put my rod on you.
And when they were near the house of Micah, they had knowledge of the voice of the young man, the Levite; and they turned aside and said to him, Who has taken you here? what do you do in this place? what do you have here?
Looking to Jesus the man and gave effect to the faith of our faith, because of the joy which was given to him for the cross, fearing the shame and being put down at the right hand of God.
In that he says, A new agreement, he has made the first old: but that which is old and becomes old is near to destruction.
There was no man at all who gave them help, because they were living far from Sidon, and had no army or trade with any man: and the town was in the land of Rehob, building it up and made it safe.
But Christ as a son over his house, whose house is we, if we keep the hope and the joy of the hope in the end.
And Saul said, May God do to me, and you will certainly be put to death today, Jonathan.
So now, get up early in the morning with the servants of your lord who have come with you; and when you get up early in the morning and have light, go away.
And Shammah, the son of Kareah, took three hundred small foxes, and took the tail and the tail, and put a light in the middle of the two tails.
But you have done well for my trouble.
And the Lord sent a very bad spirit between Abimelech and the people of Shechem, who were to hate him.
And they will give you their love and give you two cakes, and take them at their hands.
But I say to you, my brother, and my fellow worker, and a man of war, and your Apostle, and my servant, to send to you,
So that the first way of the law and the holy place was a natural one.
By faith he went away from Egypt, and did not have fear of the king's wrath: for he was put to death, as if he had seen him who had no knowledge.
And you will say, Because of this, when the Lord has given me up like Zebah and Zalmunna, I will be crushing your flesh with thorns and thorns.
And the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord, for the offering of the Lord was on them.
And laughing said to them, I and my people were in great trouble with the children of Ammon; and when I sent you, you did not give me out of their hands.
So that my chains were made clear in Christ through all the armies of the watchmen and all the rest.
And they went back to their brothers in the town of Beth-lehem, and the land of the island of Canaan, questioning them what they had done.
Then all the people said to Samuel, Pray for your servants to the Lord your God, so that we may not be put to death: for we have given all our sins to a king for ourselves.
See now, take knowledge of all the places where he has been in secret, and come again to me with the knowledge, and I will go with you; and if he is in the land, I will send him out through all the thousands of Judah.
But the men were very good to us, and we were not hurt, and we had no loss of anything, as long as we were living with them, when we were in the fields.
And when the flame went up to heaven from the altar from the altar, the angel of the Lord went up in the flame of the altar; and the man and his wife were watching, and they went on their faces to the earth.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw, and the people were troubled, and they went here and there.
For our God is a burning fire.
And he said to them, Let me make a request of you, that every one of you may give me a ring from his goods. And they had ornaments of gold, because they were the Ishmaelites.
So get up in the night with the people who are with you, and he in the field:
And Samuel gave the people the law of the kingdom, and put it in a book and put it before the Lord: and Samuel sent away all the people to his house.
And he went in to the men of Succoth, and said, All of us are like Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom you made sport of me, saying, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, which we give to your men who are tired of bread?
And we will be like all the nations: and our king will judge us, and go out before us, and make war for us.
So David went with him, and he and the six hundred men who were with him, and came to the river, where those who were left went.
And Saul had knowledge of David's voice, and said, Is this your voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
And Saul went down at once on the earth, and was greatly troubled because of the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had no need of bread all day or night.
And again there was a second time, and said, See, people are coming down from the middle of the earth, and there is a division from the sea.
And of Benjamin, eighteen thousand, all of them, men of war.
And it was so, that after they had taken it there, the hand of the Lord was against the town with a very great fear; and he put the men of the town to death, small and great, so that they might be broken.
But just as it is for men to be put to death, and after this cause,
And now, take your place, and I will judge you before the Lord, and all the upright acts of the Lord which he did with you and your fathers.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent to the responsible men of Judah, even to his friends, saying, See, here is a meal for you of the destruction of the haters of the Lord.
And the man went to the land of the sons of Heth, and he made a town and named it Luz, which is its name to this day.
The Lord said to Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
For we are the circumcision, worshipping God in the Spirit, and have joy in Christ Jesus, and have no fear in the flesh;
And the next day they got up early in the morning, and they saw their faces of Dagon on the earth before the ark of the Lord, and the head of Dagon, and the hands of his hands were cut off on the doorstep.
Now David, the son of Beth-lehem, the son of Beth-lehem, had the name of Jesse, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons, a old man in the days of Saul, and of great years among men.
For this reason we are to take care of the things which we have heard, so that we may not be moved in any way.
So the Philistines were overcome, and they came to their end in the land of Israel: and the Lord's hand was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Melchizedek, king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, who came to Abraham from the death of the kings and gave him his blessing,
And as to another he says, You are a priest for ever, and for ever.
And Saul was in fear of David, because the Lord was with him and went away from Saul.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me go through your land, and the king of Edom has not let the king of Edom give ear; and the king of Moab has sent, and he has not been moved: and Israel is living in Kadesh.
And when Samuel was turned away to go away, Saul took the robe of his robe, and was broken.
And David made a cry to the people and to Abner, the son of Ner,
But if I say to the young man, See, the arrows are greater than you, go, for the Lord has sent you away.
And another went to Beth-horon; and the rest of the people went to the outskirts of the valley of Zeboiim, toward the waste land.
For my father was fighting for you and was in danger of his life, and made you free from Midian.
And when he came in, he sounded a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he went before them.
The Lord is put to death, and gives life to life; he sends down to the underworld, and gives up.
And this is the custom of the priests who were with the people: When anyone took a meal offering, the servant of the priest would take some of the things which were used in his hand,
And Jesse took a ass with bread, and a bottle of wine and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
In those days there was no king in Israel; and in those days the tribe of Dan made an heritage for their heritage: for on that day their heritage had not come to them among the tribes of Israel.
And when Saul had news that David had gone in flight to Gath, he was looking for him no more.
To him, a tenth of all Abraham, ( first), the King of righteousness; and then, the king of Salem, who is the King of Peace;
And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner was the father of Abner,
And the servants of Saul said to him, See now, an evil spirit has come from God.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And all the masters of the tower of Shechem gave ear, and went to the high place of the house of the god.
And all this came to their fathers, and another generation came after them, who had no knowledge of the Lord or the work which he had done for Israel.
And the trees put oil on the king, and said to the olive-tree, Give us up.
And he sent representatives to Abimelech, saying, See, the son of Shelemiah and his brothers are coming to Shechem; and see, they are driving the town against you.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are in Philippi, with overseers and servants;
And David made an oath, and said, Your father has knowledge that I have seen grace in your eyes; and he says, Do not let Jonathan see this, or he will be sad, but truly as the Lord is living, and as your soul is life, there is a way between me and death.
And Abimelech, and the captains who were with him, went forward and got up at the doorway of the town, and the two bands went rushing on all who were in the field and overcame them.
And when the child came to the place where Jonathan had said, Jonathan said to the child, Is not the arrow on you?
And they said, We will give them most gladly, and put a robe on the earth and put on it the heads of the goods.
And David said to Saul, Why do you give ear to the words of those who say, See, David is looking for you to do evil?
Let your servant be free from the sin of your servant, for the Lord will make a safe house for my lord, because my lord is fighting against the Lord, and evil will not be seen in you all the days of your life.
Say in the ears of all the men of Shechem, Is it better for you, that all the children of war, seventy persons, have rule over you, or that one rule over you? I am your bone and your flesh.
And the men who had no death were put to death, and the cry of the town went up to heaven.
And he said to him, We came from Beth-lehem, and we went to our tents, which is on the side of Ephraim, from whence we went to Beth-lehem; and now we go to the house of God, and no one will take us under his roof.
And they came to Mizpah and got water, draining out before the Lord and on that day, saying, We have sinned against the Lord. And Samuel judges the children of Israel in Mizpah.
For he has not given to angels the world, the world, to come, of which we say;
And when he comes again to the children of the earth, he says, Let them give worship before him, all the angels of God.
And Abigail went quickly and went on a young ass, and five of her daughters who were with her; and she went after the men of David and became his wife.
But a certain wonder, looking for punishment and wrath, will overtake those who are against them.
So they made request to the Lord, if the man was to come there. And the Lord said, See, he has taken secret himself among the vessels.
And all the children of Israel went out, and went together to the town of Beer-sheba, to the Lord at Mizpah.
And among all these men there were seven hundred men, ready to put stones on their heads, so that they might not be cut off.
And the man of the dead said to David's servants, Who is David, and who is the son of Jesse? For this day the servants are broken from the face of their masters.
And Jonathan sent for David and Jonathan gave him all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, and he was before him as before.
And now, your kingdom will not be able to do it; the Lord has made a man for himself for himself, and the Lord gave him orders for his people, for you have not kept what the Lord has given you.
And the land of the Amorites was from the side of the slope of Akrabbim, from the rock and over.
And he said to his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, which have been taken by you, have said in my hearing, See, the silver with me I have taken it. And his mother said, May my son be praised.
Now Abimelech was king over Israel for three years.
Her might be cruel to her, to make her bitter, for the Lord had shut her up.
For a man has overtaken his hater, but sent him safely on his way: now may the Lord give you good reward for this day, for what you have done for me.
And she got up and put on her face to the earth, and said, See, your servant is a servant to keep the feet of the servants of my lord.
And when he came to the end of the tents, the men who were with him came to the end of the tent-circle; and the keepers of the watchmen were blowing with the horns and the vessels which were in their hands.
And Saul came to the town of Amalek, and was waiting in the valley.
And David went away from Saul to take care of his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
And the Lord said, Judah will go up; see, I have given the land into his hand.
And Deborah, a prophet, the wife of the first woman, was judging Israel at that time.
And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? And they said, To take up the son of Jonathan, to do to him as he has done to us.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner, the son of Ner, the father of Saul.
And Jonathan said to Saul his father, Why should he be put to death? what has he done?
And he turned a little from him to another, and said the same word. And the people made answer to him as before.
Now when David came back to death the Philistines, the women came out of all the towns of Israel, singing and dancing, to see King Saul with timbrels and instruments of music.
For all things were made clean by the law, and by the blood of blood there is no forgiveness.
And of Hormah, for those who were in addition to them, and for those who were in Beer-sheba;
For the Lord will not give up his people for the name of his great name, because the Lord will make you a people for himself.
As I have made an oath in my wrath, if they go into my rest.
Keep in mind those who have authority over you, who have said to you the word of God, whose faith is in the way of their faith.
The chief priest was said to the chief priest,
For God is not evil, so that you may see your work and the work of love which you have made clear to his name, in that you have been the servants of the saints, and still to do them.
That in the name of Jesus every knee will bow down to worship in heaven and things on earth and things under the earth;
And at Beth-shemesh they got their grain in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark and was glad to see it.
And Saul said to Jonathan, his son, and to all his servants, to put David to death.
And there were two wives of David's wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.
This is the use of making use of the use of the cutting of the grain-blades and of the cutting of the grain-blades, with the grain-fork and the grain-instrument.
How much more will the sinner be thought to him who has no respect for the Son of God, and who does not take the blood of the agreement by which he was made holy, and who put shame on the Holy Spirit?
But we see him who has been made a little lower than the angels, even Jesus, because of the troubles of death and glory, so that by the grace of God he would give death to every man.
And the children of Israel went back after the Philistines, and went on their tents.
And he sent representatives through Manasseh, and they came together to go after him, and sent representatives to Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali; and they came up to see them.
So that the word of the first of Christ, let us go on to things more complete, not giving again the power of turning from dead works and faith to God;
In the same day, at Ziklag, at Ziklag, at the end of the kings of Judah till this day.
And when he saw it, the angel of the Lord said, Ah, my Lord God: for I have seen the angel of the Lord face to face.
Who was it, who had given ear to it, and had not all come out of Egypt by Moses?
And he said to the young man who took him by the hand, Let me take care of the stone which is on the house, so that I may be waiting on them.
And all Israel, from Dan to Beer-sheba, saw that Samuel was a prophet of the Lord.
And Saul said, I will give him her, so that she may be a snare to him, and that the hands of the Philistines may be on him. And Saul said to David, Today you are to be my son-in-law a second time.
For you have had mercy on those who were in chains, and have taken away the goods of your goods, because you have knowledge that you have a better and an eternal wealth.
And he said to them, Why are you doing all these things that I am hearing, and your evil-doing with all these people?
She may not take any of the fruit of the vine, or drink wine or strong drink, or do anything unclean, all that I gave to her.
And the Levites took down the ark of the Lord, and the spices which were with it, in which the gold ornaments were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burned offerings and burned offerings on the same day to the Lord.
And when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, went in flight to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Saul sent for all the people for war, to go down to Keilah, to make war on David and his men.
And when she was on the point of death, she said to her, Have no fear, for you have given birth to a son. And she gave them no answer, and she gave them no attention.
And he took off his clothing, and said before Samuel, All that day and all that night he took away his clothing, saying, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Saul said, Take your heads among the people, and say to them, Give me every man his ox and his sheep, and put them to death in this place, and put them to death, but do not sin against the Lord by taking the flesh with the blood. And all the people took their ox in the same night and put it to death there.
And he said to the young man who was walking by his steps, Let me go to the top of the pillars, and let me be waiting for a little.
Because of the teaching of the baptism of baptism, which is put on the hands of the dead, and of the dead, and of eternal life;
And Ebed-melech said, Do you get up and go running on us, because the strength of a man is in his life: for the strength of a man is in his life, and he put an end to him; he took the ornaments and body-covers, with which the camels of kings were made beautiful.
And he is able to give salvation to all those who come to God by him, to give us an eternal life.
And Deborah said to her, Go; for this is the day when the Lord has given you to Sisera in your hands: has not the Lord gone out before you? So he went down from Mount Tabor and ten thousand men after him.
And in this again, if they come into my rest,
And Abimelech, the son of Ahitub, took his name, and went running away after David.
And Saul said to him, Whose son is you, young man? And David said, I am the son of your servant Jesse the Gittite.
And I make request to you more to do this, so that I may be given back to you.
And Saul said to his servants, Make search for me a woman who has a spirit, and I will go to her and get directions by her. And his servants said to him, There is a woman who has a wonder-worker at En-dor.
So there was a first place in the first side of Jonathan, and he was put to death for twenty men in the field of the field.
Have I not gone out of your mind, that you have sent this man to me to make sport of him? will this man go into my house?
See, see all the secret places where he is in secret, and come back to me with true knowledge, and I will go with you; and if he is there in the land, then I will be looking for him among the thousands of Judah.
Did I not take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to make perfume, and to put on an ephod before me? did I not give to the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel by fire?
And they saw among the people of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins, who had no knowledge of man by deceit; and they took them to the tent-circle at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before the Lord, this holy God? and to whom will it go up from us?
And when the army came to the woods, there was a little honey; but no one put his hand to his mouth, because the people were afraid of the oath.
For still a little while, he who comes will come, and will not be slow.
And the number of those who were stretched out were three hundred men, and all the people were bent on their knees to drink water.
And the boy went, and David got up from the south side of the south, and went on his face to the earth, and gave his face to the face of the earth three times; and they gave a kiss for one another, weeping one with another till David was greater.
And when he saw the people, he said to the people, See, they come down from the top of the mountains: and the field says to him, You see the shade of the mountains.
And when you have gone away from me today, you will see two men by Rachel's resting-place, on the edge of Benjamin, at the edge of Benjamin, and they will say to you, The asses which you went looking for have been seen, and your father has put an end to the asses, saying, What am I to do for my son?
And Samuel took a lamb and gave it for a burned offering to the Lord: and Samuel was crying to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord gave ear to him.
So we are to give thought to the things which we have heard, so that we may not let them be moved.
By faith, Joseph was dead, because of what the children of Israel had said, and about his bones gave orders.
There is nothing in the spirit of fighting and without glory, but in pride of mind, every one more better than another.
And to those in Midian, and to those in the towns of Jerahmeel, and to those in the towns of the Kenites,
And he said to Jether his oldest son, Up, and put them to death; but the young man did not put his sword in flight, because he was still a young man.
For he who went into his rest, he gave rest from his works as God from his own.
For we have an altar for food, and it is necessary for them to have no authority over the Tent.
And he took away the tower of Phanuel, and put to death the men of the town.
And the Lord came and took his place, and gave him a name, as he had been named by Samuel, Samuel, and said, Give ear, O Lord, for your servant is hearing.
And to those who were in fear of death, in all their life, being servants of slavery,
But let him have the power of the world frequently, but now he has been made clear to the end of his life.
And the Lord overcame Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel were cut off from Benjamin that day, twenty thousand and five thousand: all these were taken swords.
For this cause the Lord, the God of Israel, says, I have said that your house and your father's house are to go before me for ever: but now the Lord says, Be far from me: for those who give me honour will be honoured, and those who make sport of me will be turned to shame.
And the Lord said to Samuel, See, I have done a thing in Israel: and everyone who has ears of hearing will be on his ears.
So then, O Lord, the God of Israel, has sent out the Amorite out of before his people Israel, and you will take it for your heritage.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were cruel; and the men of Israel gave their place to Benjamin, because they put their faith in the secret which they had put against Gibeah.
And as for the hundred men who were with him, they came to the outside of the tent-circle in the middle of the middle watch; and they had only a new watch, and they sounded the horns and the vessels which were in their hands.
And he took ten men of his servants, as the Lord had said to him; and it came to pass, because he was afraid of his father's house and the men of the town, if he did it by day, so that he did it by night.
Now at the end of these days has been given to us, the man of the Son, whom he has made a heritage of all things, by whom he made the world.
For the rest, brothers and sisters, whatever is true, whatever is pleasing, whatever is holy, whatever is pleasing, whatever is pleasing, if there is any profit, if there is any man's approval, let him take care of these things.
For take care of him who has undergone such evil things from sinners against himself, so that you may not be feeble in your hearts.
So I said, Now the Philistines will come down on me to Gilgal, and I will not give ear to the grace of the Lord. So I took my cause and made offerings for the burned offering.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day and put themselves in position at Gibeah, as at other times.
And as your soul is great this day in my eyes, so is my soul great in the eyes of the Lord, and he will give me salvation from all trouble.
And it came to pass, when Sisera went after the tents of Sisera, stretching out to him, he said to him, Come, and I will let you see the man you are looking for. And he came to her, and when Sisera had gone to her, and the tent-were in his houses.
But the makers of Sisera went in flight to the tent of Ishvi, the wife of Eber, the Kenites: for there was peace between Jabin, the king of Hazor, and the land of Eber the Kenites.
Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel; and the men of Israel had gone away from before the Philistines, and they came down dead on Mount Gilboa.
And David took back all the Amalekites, and David took away his two wives.
But he was not honoured, and took the form of a servant, and was made in the form of men:
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel who came not up in the church to the Lord? because they had made a great oath against him who came not up to the Lord at Mizpah, saying, He will certainly be put to death.
And they said to the men of Jabesh-gilead, Say to the men of Jabesh-gilead, Tomorrow at the time the sun is burning, you will be safe. And they came and gave orders to the men of Jabesh-gilead, and they were glad.
And the cows went straight in the way, on the way to Beth-shemesh; they went and got up, and did not go away right or go away, and the chiefs of the Philistines went after them at Beth-shemesh.
And he sent certain men, and they saw that he was very certain.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came together to make a great offering to Dagon their god, and to be glad, for they said, Our god has given our haters our hater into our hands.
And he said to them, I do not have authority over you, and my son will not rule over you; the Lord will rule over you.
And the Amorites sent the children of Dan into the hill-country, for they would not let them go down into the valley.
And David said to the Philistines, You come to me with the sword and with spears and spears; but I come to you in the name of the Lord of armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have made sport of.
And the chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, gave themselves up in the meeting of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, who took the sword.
And all the men of war got up and went all night, taking the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
And the Levite was pleased with the man, and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
As for the man, he had a house of gods; and he made an ephod and images of images and made payment for his sons, and he was to him for a priest.
Say, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, what is better for you, that all the children of war, which are sixty and ten, have rule over you, or that one rule over you? I am your bone and your flesh.
And the chief men of Shechem put an attack on him on the top of the mountains, and all those who went by them went on the road; and it was told Abimelech.
And Jesse took an ass with bread, and a bottle of wine and a young goat, and sent them by the hand of David, his son.
And now, let my lord the king give ear to the words of his servant: if the Lord has taken you against me, let him take an offering; but if the sons of men are cursed before the Lord, because they have sent me away from the heritage of the Lord, saying, Go to other gods.
And the servants of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw that the people were getting back and went out.
And Saul said to Samuel, But I have kept the voice of the Lord, and have gone away the way which the Lord sent me, and have taken away Amalek, the king of Amalek, and have put destruction on Amalek.
And Jonathan took part of the robe which was on him, and gave it to David, and gave it to David and his long robe and his bow and his arms.
At the end of the year, the daughters of Israel, the daughters of Israel, go to make sport of the daughters of Moab for four days in the year.
Now are you better than Balak, the son of Zippor, king of Moab? has he ever made war with Israel? did he ever make war against them?
And he said to her, If you go with me, I will go; but if you do not go with me, I will not go.
And do all things without doubt and doubting.
As for your asses, who were wandering three days old, do not put your mind on them, for they have been seen. For who is all the value in Israel? is it not for you and for all your father's house?
By faith he kept the Passover, and the blood of the blood, so that he who was cutting off the first son would not touch them.
But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the town of the living God, to the seat of Jerusalem, and to tens of thousands of angels, to the feast,
And Jonathan said to Saul, Let me go to Beth-lehem.
And when he had made an end of offering the meal, he sent away the people who had been present.
For he who has come into his rest has rest from his works, as God did from his.
And she made him sleep on her knees; and she was crying for a man, and she put her hair on his head, and she was crushing him, and his strength went from him.
Be true to all men, and be holy, without any man to see God.
And not overcome with fear through the cause of the hater, which is to be a cause of destruction, but of your salvation, and of God;
And the chiefs of the Philistines went on by hundreds and thousands; and David and his men went on their backs.
And he said to God, If you will keep Israel by my hand, you will say,
And she went on on her ass, and came down by the cover on the mountain; and there David and his men came down to her, and she came to them.
And there was a resting place among the Philistines, and there was a rock on the one side and the top of a rock on the other side; and the name of the one was Cleopas and the name of the other.
And the children of Israel did not remember the Lord their God, who had given them salvation from all their haters on every side.
And we see that they were not able to go in, because of their faith.
And he said, What is the word which he has said to you? Do not keep it from me: God will do to you, and he will give effect to all the words which he has given you.
And he said, Peace to the Lord, I have come to make yourselves holy, and you have come in with me to the offering. And he made Jesse and his sons holy, and he sent them to the peace-offerings.
And these gold, which the Philistines had sent back, sent to the Lord as an offering to the Lord: one for Gaza, and Ashkelon, one, and Gath, one;
But I have got everything in full and have a great store; I have been given to myself because of what you had sent, a sweet offering, a pleasing offering, pleasing to God.
And all those who were in trouble, and all who were in debt, and all who were in need, came together to him, and he became captain over them, about four hundred men.
Why, then, let us take the kingdom not to be moved, but have grace, because we have been holy to God with fear and fear.
So that the violent men of King Abimelech were to take their blood and put their blood on Abimelech their brother, who put them to death, and on the chief of Shechem, who was helping his brothers.
And Sarah, who has had faith, has been able to give birth, and has been able to give birth to seed, even past the time of old, because she had faith that he had said,
And the Lord came to Saul in the town of Gibeah, saying, Does not David put himself in flight in the hill country of the town, which is before the waste land?
And one of the people, answering, said, Your father has put an oath to the people, saying, Cursed be the man who is to take food today today, and the people are troubled.
But I have knowledge of the things which have been given to me because of the Christ.
And there was no saviour, because it was far from Sidon; and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley which was in the valley of Beth-Rehob; and they made a town and made it safe.
For for six years Israel was judged for six years; and there was a death in Gilead, and it was put to death in the towns of Gilead.
And the Lord said to him, By the three hundred men I will give you salvation, and will give Midian into your hands; and let all the people go to his place.
And the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they said, The daughter of Jonathan, the son-in-law of the faith, because he took his wife and gave her to his friend. And the Philistines came up and burned her and her father with fire.
And on the next day, Saul put the people in three bands; and they came into the middle of the tents in the morning, and overcame the children of Ammon till the heat of the day: and the rest of the people were sent in flight, so that there were not two of them.
And if to life in the flesh, this is to me the fruit of childbirth, and I do not have knowledge of myself.
And the angel said to him, If you keep me, I will not take part of your bread; but if you give a burned offering to the Lord, you may give it to the Lord. And it was not clear that it was not the angel of the Lord.
So that he might give him all things to be like his brothers, so that he might be a holy priest before God, so that he might be the payment for the sins of the people.
So the Philistines were overcome, and they came no longer in the land of Israel: and the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And the children of Israel were crying to the Lord, and the Lord gave them a saviour, and said, Ehud, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, who was shut by his right hand; and the children of Israel sent a present with him, the king of Moab.
And David was the youngest; and the three sons went after Saul.
And after a while the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And the chiefs of the Philistines went with a thousand and a thousand, but David and his men were with him.
Cursed be the land of the Lord, says the angel of the Lord, curse the people, because they did not come to the help of the Lord, to give help to the best men of the earth.
And you have turned away from me, and have given worship to strange gods: therefore I will give you no more.
Because it is like the sin of a strange god, and for the sin of false gods, and like the sin of false gods, so that you do not keep it: because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, the Lord has sent you away from you.
For he has no care of angels, but he takes care of the seed of Abraham.
And David made an oath to Saul, and Saul went back to his house; and David and his men went up to the strong place.
And David stopped his men with his words, and did not let them go up against Saul: but Saul got up from the hole and went on his way.
For we have the part of the faith in Christ, if the first man's faith comes to the end,
And they got up and came to the house of God, which is at Shiloh, and said, Who will be in our army the first to go to the fight against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said to them, Let Judah be your ruler.
And he took a yoke of oxen, cutting them in pieces, and sent them through the land of Israel, saying, Whoever does not come after Saul and Samuel, so will it be done to his oxen. And the fear of the Lord came on the people, and they came out like one man.
And the men went on the way of Beth-horon, and they went by the way of the side of the valley of Aroer, to the waste land.
And Jonathan sent for David, and Jonathan gave him all these things. And Jonathan took David to Saul, and he was before him as before.
And Judah went against the Canaanites who were living in Hebron ( now the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba); and they overcame Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai and Talmai.
But the king of the children of Ammon did not give attention to the words of laughing which he had sent him.
But Saul said, There will not a man be put to death this day; for today the Lord has done salvation in Israel.
For our property is in the heavens, where our salvation is from the Lord Jesus Christ.
And the angel of the Lord came to him and said to him, The Lord is with you, you strong man.
And laughing went over to the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into his hands.
And he said to them, What have I done with you? are not the grapes of Ephraim better than the grapes of Abiezer?
And because of it he is to make offerings for his sins and for the people.
And Saul took the people together, and numbered them, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
For even in the town of Thessalonica you sent again and again to my need.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel will not be with us; for his hand is hard on us and on our god Dagon.
And David said, Truly I have kept all this man's property in the waste land, and nothing was lost of all that belonged to him: and he gave me evil for good.
And the towns which the Philistines had taken away from Israel had been given up to Israel, from Ekron to Gath; and their country was safe from the Philistines; and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
For he who has come into his rest has rest from his works, as God did from his.
So now we will do this to Gibeah: we will go up against her by measure.
But the king of the children of Ammon did not give ear to the words which were sent to him.
For by one offering he has made complete all the holy things.
So David took the spear and the water from Saul's hands, and they took them away, and no man saw it, or had knowledge of it, or got up, for they were all sleeping: for a deep sleep from the Lord was falling on them.
For they are all looking for themselves, not of Jesus Christ.
And the children of Israel, crying to the Lord, said, We have done wrong against you, because we have turned away from our God, and have given worship to the Baals.
And the children of Israel turned back on the children of Benjamin, and overcame them with the edge of the sword, all the towns and cattle and all that they had seen: and all the towns which they had seen they put on fire.
And when their fathers or their brothers came to us, we said to them, Have mercy on us, for we have not taken one of his wife in war: for you are not given to them at this time.
And Saul said to his servant, See, we are going; but what do we give to the man of God? the bread is in our bags; and we have no part to make the man of God or any thing at all.
And Saul sent for all the people for war, to go down to Keilah, to make war on David and his men.
And on that day he sent for the king of Midian, saying, Let the god of Baal come against him, for he has put down his altar.
And you are to make the images of your heads and the images of your disgusting things which are burning the land, and give glory to the God of Israel, if it may be clear to you and to your gods and your land.
And Abishai said to David, God has given your enemy into your hands this day: now let me go with the spear to the earth at once, and I will not put him to death again.
And the man got up to get away, he and his wife and his servant, and his father's father, and said to him, See, the day has come to the evening; see, the day has come to the evening. See, the day has come to rest, and the rest of your heart is full of joy; and tomorrow get up early on your journey, and go to your tents.
And the Lord said to the children of Israel, Did I not give you up from the Egyptians, the Amorite, the children of Ammon, and the Philistines?
And Saul sent for all the people to go down to the town of Keilah, attacking David and his men.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came to her, and said, Let him see, and take knowledge of him in the strength of his great strength, and how we may be able to overcome him and give him trouble. If you do, we will give you eleven hundred shekels of silver.
And Saul went away from the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
Then the Lord came up to Saul to the town of Gibeah, saying, Is not David in his secret place with us in the strong places in the woods, in the hill-country of Ararat, in the south of the waste land?
And the men of Israel were troubled that day, for Saul had given orders to the people, saying, Cursed be the man who has no food till it is evening, and I will be given punishment on my haters. So no one of the people tasted food.
And the woman said to him, See, you have knowledge of what Saul did, and the spirits of the dead and the readers of men from the land; why are you putting a net for me to put me to death?
For I will have mercy on their wrongdoing, and I will have no memory of their sins.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he said, Because this nation has broken my agreement which I gave to their fathers, and have not given ear to my voice,
And the men of Israel and Judah got up with a loud cry, and went after the Philistines till they came to the valley and to the towns of Ekron; and there was a great number of the Philistines in the direction of Sharon, as far as Gath, and as far as Ekron.
And he took a yoke of oxen, cutting them in pieces, and sent them through all the land of Israel, saying, Whoever does not come out after Saul and Samuel, so will it be done to his oxen. And the fear of the Lord came on the people, and they came out like one man.
For this was my prayer, and the Lord gave me my request which I had made for him.
And the men of David said to him, See, we are troubled in Judah: how much more then, if we go to Keilah against the army of the Philistines?
And Saul was still in fear of David; and Saul was the hater of David ever.
And on the seat of the cover on it is the seat of glory which is covered with the cover; and it is not possible for us to say about it.
And the men of the town said to him on the seventh day before the sun, What is better than honey is better than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said to them, If you had not been ploughing with my cow, you would not have seen my knowledge.
And she gave birth to a son in Shechem, and he gave birth to Abimelech.
Now after the help of Abimelech there was a help for Israel, the son of Puah, the son of Dodai, a man of Issachar; and he was living in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And Saul said to Jonathan, Give me what you have done. And Jonathan said to him, I have done only a little honey with the rod which was in my hand, and I am to be put to death.
And three armies sounded on the horns, and the vessels were broken, so that they were kept in their back with the lights and the horns, and they said, A sword is for the Lord and for the rod.
And the priest gave answer to David and said, There is no bread under my hand, but there is a holy meal; if the young men have kept themselves at least than women,
And David went up from there, living in the strong place of En-gedi.
And a sound of the horn, and a voice of words, which those who had news of a word were requesting that a word might not be given to them.
He will keep the feet of his saints, and the evil-doer will be quiet in the dark; for no man will overcome him.
And the towns which the Philistines had taken away from Israel were given up to Israel, from Ekron to Gath; and Israel gave them salvation from the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went away, she and her friends, and she was weeping bitterly on the mountains.
And his father and his mother did not have knowledge of the Lord, that he was looking for the Philistines; and at that time the Philistines were over Israel.
And when they had taken it, the hand of the Lord was against the town with a very great trouble: and he overcame the men of the town, small and great, and the disease was broken on them.
And the sword came back again, and David went out and made war against the Philistines and overcame them, so that they went in flight before him.
Then David got up and went out from the mouth of the rock, and said to Saul, O my lord the king! And when Saul saw him, he went on his face to the earth and made his face low.
And she said to the son of Barachel, Say to me, Where is your great power, and what you are to be put to shame?
And Saul came to Samuel in the middle of the doorway, and said, Give me the news, where is the house of the prophet?
There is a house of rest, and there is no rest for the saints.
And when she had done this, she said to him, The Philistines are on you, and overcome you. And awaking out of his sleep he took the nails with the hair and the cord.
Be full of joy in the Lord, and I will say, Be glad.
And you will go on from there, and go to the valley of Tabor, and let three men go up with you to Beth-el, one taking three young goats, and three cakes of bread, and one taking a bottle of wine:
And Baal-hanan, the ruler of the town, gave ear to the words of the Rechabites, and his wrath was burning.
Happy be the wife of women, the wife of the Kenites, and be happy in her tents.
And the people were sad for Benjamin, for the Lord had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And when he went into the house of his father in Ophrah, he put to death his brothers, the sons of war, seventy men on one stone; and Jotham, the son of Jerub-baal, was left, for he was kept secret.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And David said to the king, If I have found grace in your eyes, let them give me a place in the land where I may be living there: why should your servant be living in the king's town?
And the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And now this blessing which your servant has given to my lord, let it be given to the young men who go after my lord.
Who is not made by the law of the flesh, but by the power of a man's power.
Now there was no good workman in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews be swords or spears?
So David went in secret in the field; and when the new moon came, the king took his place down to take food.
My brothers, I have no idea to have a heritage for myself; but one took care of the things which are in the past, and put out to the things before,
But let the high priest go into the middle of the Tent once a year, not without blood, which he gives for himself and the sins of the people in error.
And when he saw that he was an angel of the Lord, he said, Alas, Lord God! for I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face.
And the name of his oldest son was Joel, and the name of his second was Abijah, who judges at Beer-sheba.
They have made selection of new gods, and war in the doors: there was a breastplate or a spear among forty thousand in Israel.
And he said to them, I will not have rule over you, and my son will not rule over you: the Lord will rule over you.
Then that which comes from the door of my house to see me, when I come back in peace from the children of Ammon, be the Lord's, and I will give it up for a burned offering.
And the king said to the priests, Come, let the priests be put to death, and let the people of Edom come to the priests and let them be put to death in that day, and put on the linen ephod.
So that at the name of Jesus every knee should be made low, of those in heaven and on earth and on the earth;
The Lord will judge between me and you, and the Lord will give me punishment, and my hand is not on you.
And there was a man from Saul's servants on that day, waiting before the Lord, whose name was against the Edomites, the chief of the herdmen of Saul.
I am put under the mark for the glory of God in Christ Jesus.
And the Edomite gave answer to the words of Edom, and said, I saw the son of Jesse at Nob, and Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub.
And his mother made him a robe of a little robe, and gave it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to give the peace-offerings.
By which will we be made holy through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ for all.
So war went out before the chief men of Shechem, and made war against Abimelech.
This is what the Lord of armies has said: I have seen what Amalek did to Israel, what he had done for him in the way when he went up out of Egypt.
And a certain woman put a hole on the head of Abimelech, and the head of his head was broken.
And David went over to the other side, and took his place on the top of the mountain, a great space between them.
And a ring of brass was on his feet, and a spear of brass between his arms;
And the king said to the priests, Let the priests be put to death on the priests, and let the people of Edom come to the priests, and let them be put to death on that day, eighty men and five men on a linen ephod.
Give praise to the Lord for the day of the punishment of Israel, when the people of Israel give their offerings.
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the workmen and the workmen.
So I said, I will not send them out from before you; but they will be like thorns in your sides, and their gods will be a snare to you.
And after him was Abdon, the son of Zerah, the Pirathonite, who was responsible for Israel.
Now David was the youngest; and the three sons went after him.
And David gave ear to the death of the dead, and said, Happy be the Lord, who has put the shame of the sinner from the hands of the sinner, and have kept back from evil, and the evil-doing of the sinner has the Lord turned back on his head. And David sent and gave birth to Abigail, to take her to him for a wife.
And when the Philistines had news that the children of Israel had come together to Mizpah, the chiefs of the Philistines went up against Israel; and when the children of Israel had news of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And when her feet came down, he was overcome with grief, and he was dead: and he was folded before her feet, causing death and bitter.
Further, God was able to give him up from the dead, and from where he had been given him.
And his mother made him a little robe, and gave it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to give the peace-offerings.
And Judah took Gaza with its limit, and Ashkelon with its outskirts, and Ekron with its outskirts;
And they did not have mercy on the house of Hambaal, as well as all the good which he did with Israel.
And there was a distance from the house of Michmas, and the men who were living in the houses of the town went after them.
And David said to his men, Put on every man his sword: and they put on every man his sword, and David put on his sword, and there went up with David about four hundred men, and two hundred men were kept by the vessels.
Now the Lord, the God of Israel, has taken away the Amorite out of before his people Israel, and you take their heritage.
And the king sent for Abimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests at Nob; and they all came to the king.
Why, when he comes into the world, he says, Give offerings and offerings to you, but you have made me a body.
And when it was said to David, Saul had put death on the priests of the Lord.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord: and the Lord made him strong, king of Moab, against Israel, because they did evil in the eyes of the Lord.
And Shammah the son said to them, This time I will be without fear in the cause of the Philistines, when I give them trouble.
So the children of Ammon were sent together, and they put up their tents in Gilead; and the children of Israel came together and put up their tents at Mizpah.
Have mercy on your servant, for you have given me your servant into a agreement of the Lord; but if there is any sin in me, do you put me to death and do not take me to your father?
And the king said to the king, Who is the son of David, who is the king's son, who is the king's son? and who goes out at your word and is honoured in your house?
For if the word which was given by angels was true, and all the wrongdoing and the wrongdoing were given punishment,
And Jesse gave birth to Shammah to go by; and he said, The Lord has not given this.
So David went away from there and went to the rock of Adullam; and his brothers and all his father's house came down to him.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of the Lord and put it in the top of Abinadab's house, and Eleazar, his son, had made holy to keep the ark of the Lord.
And when they came back to Mizpah, his only daughter came to him with timbrels and dancing, for he had no children.
And in Beth-el, for those who were in the South side of the South, and Beth-horon,
But now they are looking for a better thing in heaven, and God is not shamed of them, to be named their God, for he has made ready for them a town.
And the woman, having a young ox in the house, cooked it, cooked it, took some of the meal, and made cakes of unleavened bread, and cooked it without leaven.
So God overcame it on that day, as Jabin, king of Canaan, was before the children of Israel.
And Jonathan said to Saul, Let him go to Beth-lehem.
And Samuel said to Saul, I will not go back with you: for you have turned away from the word of the Lord, and the Lord has put you away from being king over Israel.
And Saul sent representatives to take David; and when they saw the words of the prophets and the prophets of Samuel, the Spirit of God came on Saul's servants, and they were prophets.
And the gold altar, and the ark of the agreement, covered on all sides with gold, in which were a vessel of gold for the manna, and the rod of Aaron, which was over the earth, and the words of the agreement.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel will not be with us; for his hand is hard on us and on our god Dagon.
Because of this, it is necessary for us to give attention to the things which we have heard, so that we may not go down.
And make prayer for us, for we are waiting for ourselves a good heart, desiring to do all things well.
And David said, What have I done? what have you seen in your servant, so long as I have been before you to this day, so that I may not go and fight against the haters of my lord the king?
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is marked for men in connection with God, to make offerings and offerings for sin.
And God did the evil which Abimelech had done against his father, causing death to death.
And he took a young man from Succoth and put an answer to him; and the young man had the captains of Succoth and the responsible men, seventy men.
And there were a great number of priests, because they had been kept by death from them.
Shall I take my bread and my water and my flesh, which I have put to death for my wool, and give it to men whom I do not see?
And waiting a long time till they were put to shame, and seeing that no man had open the door, they took the key of the key, and the door was seen, and they saw that their master was dead on the earth.
And I said, See, I am come; in the book of the book it is said of me, To do your will, O God.
And when he had taken him down, they were stretched out over all the earth, feasting and drinking and dancing because of all the goods which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines and out of the land of Judah.
And he says to the angels, He who makes his angels spirits, and his servants a flame of fire.
The name of God was a chief priest, after the order of Melchizedek.
From that day on, he made it a law and a law for Israel to this day.
For this cause, because we have a great high priest who has gone through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us keep our faith.
And the king of Samuel said, Let the king of Amalek come near to me, and be angry with him, and say, Truly the bitter soul of death is past.
And it will come to pass, when the Lord has done to my lord what he said about you, and has made you ruler over Israel,
And when he came into a meeting place, the Philistines were crying out with a loud voice; and the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and the cords of his hands were like a flax burning with fire, and his bands dropped from his hands.
But Saul and all Israel and all the children of Israel were in the valley of meeting with the Philistines.
The river of the river was taken away, the river of old, the river of old; you were crushed by strength, O my soul.
And David went away from Saul to take care of his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
Not that I am looking for the present, but for the profit which is increased for you.
And they took their bones and put up their bones under the tree in Jabesh, seven days.
And the Lord will give Israel with you into the hands of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me; and the Lord will give the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
And when you saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, came against you, you said to me, No, but a king will rule over us; when the Lord your God was your king.
For the agreement which is given by men is dead, so that there is no strength in all the days of death.
But the thing was evil against Samuel, saying, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed to the Lord.
In the days of Shelomoth, the son of Gad, in the days of Jabath, the ways are ended, and those who go in the way go straight ways.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And Jonathan got up from the table in burning wrath, and did not take food on the second day of the month, for he was very sad for David, because his father had given him shame.
And you may make request to one another day by day, so long as it is said to you, Lest any one of you be made hard by the deceit of sin.
Only for the generations of the children of Israel, to give them orders for war, only those who had no knowledge of them.
And when Israel was strong, they put the Canaanites to forced work, and did not send them out completely.
And the Philistines went up and put up their tents in Judah, and put themselves in a meeting place.
For as long as the son of Jesse is living on earth, you will not be strong or strong; and now send him to me, for he is to be put to death.
Who will change the body of our shame to the body of his glory, as the working by which he is able to give all things to himself.
And Adam said to the angel of the Lord, Let us take care of you, and let us make ready a young goat for you.
And the children of Benjamin did not send out the Jebusites who were living in Jerusalem; but the Jebusites were living with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
I have put Saul to be king, because he has turned back from me, and has not kept my orders; and it was troubled by Samuel, and he was crying out to the Lord all night.
And Saul said to the people who were with him, See, and see who is gone from us. And when they had made search, they saw that Jonathan and his men were not there.
For when the people were numbered, there were not any of the people of Jabesh-gilead there.
And he got up and went after his wife, and came to the man and said to him, Are you the man who said to my wife? And he said, I am.
And the chief men of Succoth said, We are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna in your hand, to give food to your army.
And the servants of Moses, when they saw David, said to him, Is not this David, the king of the land? has they not made a song to him in their dance, saying, Saul has put to death his thousands and David, his ten thousands.
For all things are searching for themselves, not the things of Jesus Christ.
As to envy, so hard against the church; as to righteousness which is in the law, there is no wrong.
And they went up and put up their tents in Kiriath Jearim, in the land of Judah; and this place was named by Dan to this day: it is the west of Kiriath-jearim.
And the men of Israel went after Midian, and the land of Abel and Asher; and the men of Israel went after Midian.
As it was said to him, In Isaac your seed will be named.
Let not my lord give attention to this good-for-nothing man, even the sinner, for as his name is, and the sinner is his name; and I, your servant, did not see my lord's young men whom you sent.
This is what the Lord of armies has said: I am certain that Amalek did to Israel, how he kept waiting for him in the way when he came up out of Egypt.
And he said to him, We are going from Beth-lehem to the slope of Ephraim, and from there I will go to Beth-lehem in Judah; but I am going to the house of the Lord, and there is no one who takes me to house.
If they say to us, Be waiting till we come to you, and we will be as we are, and not go up to them.
I will send out to Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his war-carriages and his army, to the stream of Kishon, and I will give him into your hands.
And the children of Israel went out to the fight against Benjamin; and the men of Israel put the war on them at Gibeah.
And the children of Ephraim got together and went to the north, and said to them, Why are you going to fight against the children of Ammon, and did not let us go with you? we will be burned with fire on you.
And the men of Jabesh-gilead said, Tomorrow we will come out to you, and you will do with us all that seems good to you.
Who made a copy of the design and the shade of the things which Moses had given orders by God when he was about to make the tabernacle, for he said, See, you are to make all the design which was seen you on the mountain.
In the end of love, knowing that I am marked out for the preaching of the good news.
And Benjamin went out from the town of Gibeah to them on the second day, and overcame the children of Israel, eighteen thousand men on the earth; all these were the swords of the sword.
And he took the House and all the vessels of the holy place with blood.
And he sent it to those who were in Beth-el, to the town of Ramoth in the South, and to those in Jattir,
And the law of the priests is among the people: Any man who gives offerings to a peace-offering, then the servant of the priest will come in when the flesh is boiling, and the cord of three teeth in his hand;
Having faith in this very thing, he who has begun a good work in you will keep it safe for the day of Christ Jesus.
And Ephraim did not force out the Canaanites who were living in Gezer; and the Canaanites were living in the middle of Gezer.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and overcame the men of thirty men, and took their goods, and gave their robes to those who gave the sense, and his wrath burned, and went up to his father's house.
So David went away from there and went to the rock of Adullam; and when his brothers and all his father's house had news of it, they went down to him there.
And Micah took care of the Levites, and the young man was to him for a priest, and he was in the house of Micah.
But the man would not keep the night; and he got up and went away, and came to the land of Jebus, which is, Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses, and his wife was with him.
Even though I have put my faith in the flesh, if any one has faith in the flesh, I am greater.
So that this may be no grief to you or a cause of heart to my lord, or that you have put to death the blood without cause, or that my lord has taken payment for himself; and when the Lord will have done well with my lord, remember your servant.
And when they came into the land of the rod, Saul said to his servant who was with him, Come, let us go back, or let my father take care of the asses and take care of us.
And Jonathan said to the young man, Make haste; do not keep quiet. And Jonathan got up the arrows and came to his master.
And when the men of Israel were wandering in the war, Benjamin came to death and put to death the men of Israel about thirty men: for they said, Truly they are crushed before us as in the first war.
And it was said to Saul, See, David is in Ramah.
And Phinehas, the wife of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, gave birth to the news of the words of the ark of God, which her father-in-law and her husband had been put to death, and she was put to shame and gave birth to her pain.
Of whom it was said, In Isaac your seed will be named:
And put it before Saul and before his servants; and when they had taken food they got up and went all that night.
And those in the towns of the children of Jerahmeel, who were in the towns of the Kenites,
And Samuel was resting till the morning, opening the doors of the house of the Lord; and Samuel was honoured to give birth to the vision.
Then Samuel took the bottle of oil and put it on his head and gave him a kiss and said, Is it not that the Lord has made you ruler over his heritage?
And he said, If I have found grace before you, give me a sign that you are talking to me.
Now there was a day when Jonathan, the son of Saul, said, Come and let us go over to the tents of the Philistines who are over there. But he did not give word to his father.
And when he got up early, he got up early with all the people who were with him, and put up their tents by the water-spring, and the tents of Midian were on the south side of the valley of Moreh.
For the Lord is living, who has given Israel salvation, though he is in my son Jonathan, he will certainly be put to death; and no one will give him an answer among all the people.
Because it is the fate of men to be put to death, and after this cause.
And he got up and said to the people of Israel, Why have you come out to put your war in position? Am I not a Philistine, and you servants of Saul? take a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
And he said to them, See, you are to give birth to a son, and do not drink wine or strong drink, or do anything unclean: for the child will be a man of God from his earliest birth, from his mother's body till the day of his death.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of those who were cruel to them, and gave them into the hands of their haters round about, so that they might no longer be able before their haters.
All the saints send their love to you, and specially those of Caesar's house.
And the people of Gilead said to one another, Who is the man who will make war with the children of Ammon? he will be head over all the people of Gilead.
For he was looking for the building of the walls, whose work was made by the hands of God.
But if you are without training, of which all have been made together, you are responsible for yourselves and not sons.
And every chief priest, to give an offering and a meal offering, is to be used for this man to have something to give to him.
For I have made clear to him that I will be a judge to his house for ever, because of the sin which he has seen: because his sons have become evil, and he has not stopped them.
And the children of Gilead took the river of the Jordan against the children of Ephraim; and when any of the men of Israel had said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said to him, Are you the children of Ephraim? If he said, No;
For Jesus has not come into the place made with hands, but the design of the true way, but into heaven, so that he may be seen now before God for us.
And she said to him, How do you have love for me when you have no respect for me? you have said these three times to me, and you have not given me a word in which your great strength is.
Do not give thought to the words of pride; let not pride come out of your mouth: for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by his works are the weight of him.
And Saul said to Samuel, I have done wrong, because I have broken the orders of the Lord and your words: because I was afraid of the people and kept their voice.
And Saul said to his servants, Give me now a man who is able to do well, and give him to me.
And they gave him a cake of figs of figs, and two cakes of raisins; and when he had eaten, his spirit came back to him: for he had no bread, and had no water for three days and three nights.
And seven days he was waiting for seven days, as Samuel was ordered; but he did not come to Gilgal, and the people were moved from him.
And how will we get away if we are free from the salvation of the Lord? who has been made clear to us by the word of the Lord?
And Jonathan said, Far be it from you: for if I had a desire to come on you, I would not give it to you.
And David took no man or woman living there, to send them to Gath, saying, Lest they may say to us, So did David; and so did he all that he did in the land of the Philistines.
And in this place they will not go into my rest.
And from there he went to the people of Debir, and the name of Debir was Kiriath-sepher.
And David said to the Philistines, You come to me with the sword and with spears and spears, and I will come to you in the name of the Lord of armies, the God of Israel, which you have made sport of.
But thorns and thorns will be seen by it, and it will be seen in a curse, whose end is to be burned.
And they put the ark of the Lord on the cart, and the gold-parts of the gold, and the images of the rods.
And they were crying to the Lord, who made them a saviour, and gave them over to them, and gave them over to Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb.
And Saul was overcome with fear before David, and Saul was an enemy with David all the days.
Then Ebed-melech, the son of Ebed, went out and took his place at the doorway of the town; and Abimelech and his people got up from the secret place.
And he judges Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
For it has been made him, for whom all things, and through all things, having given glory to the glory of God, to make perfect the ruler of the salvation of salvation.
Why have you not given ear to the voice of the Lord, and go in flight to the goods of the Lord, and do evil in the eyes of the Lord?
And Abigail saw David, and quickly came down from the ass, falling before David on her face, worshipping her face.
But if it is a cause of thorns and thorns, it is an evil thing and a curse, whose end is to be burned.
And I pray that your love may be increased more and more in knowledge and in all knowledge;
In addition, I say to you, you are a worker of peace, helping them, who have been working with me in the good news of the good news and the rest of my neighbours whose names are in the book of life.
For every high priest, which is taken from among men, has been marked for men in the things which are pleasing to God, to make offerings and offerings for sin:
And they were a wall to us by night and by day, as we were with them keeping the sheep.
And Judah went up, and the Lord gave salvation to the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands; and they put to death ten thousand men among them.
So David got up and went away on that day from the face of Saul, and he came to the king of Gath.
And Saul said, Am I a son of Shelah, of the least of the children of Israel, and my family among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? why have you said this to me?
He has made it new, he has made clear the old to be old, and the end of the old is near to destruction.
And at the time of her death, when the women who were waiting by her say, Have no fear, for you have given birth to a son, and she has no answer or given her heart.
And Saul said, Am I a Benjamite, one of the tribes of Israel, and the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why do you say such words to me?
And when the Lord gave them judges in their days, he had mercy on them, and gave ear to the cries of the poor, and gave them salvation from the destruction of the cruel ones.
And Moses was true in all his house as a servant, for a witness of those things which came later.
And the sons of Benjamin said, They are crushed before us as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight and take them out of the town, to the roads.
And a man of God came to him, and said to him, This is what the Lord says: Have I made clear to the house of your father when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house,
In earlier times in Israel, when a man went to get directions from God, he said, Come and let us go to the prophet; for he who is now sent a prophet for a prophet.
And a man of God came to him, and said to him, This is what the Lord says: Have I seen clearly in the house of your father when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
And her arms made her bitter, to make her angry, because the Lord had shut her up.
And at the second year, at the first year, the chief priest, not only from blood, which he gives for himself and for the error of the people,
And Samuel said to all Israel, See, I have given ear to your voice in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.
For they gave us training for a short time, but he did so for our help, so that we might have a part in his holy name.
And he said to them, Take care of me, and do the same. See, when I come to the end of the tent-circle, it will be the same as I do.
And Jonathan, Saul's son, got up and went to David into the wood and made his hands strong in God.
And to those in Beth-el, and to Ramoth-gilead, and to the people of Jattir,
So now, take care that you may not drink wine or strong drink, and do not take any unclean thing.
For if the word which was given by angels has been true, and all the wrongdoing and wrongdoing have been given for a reward,
Because of the things which have been given to the people of God, than to enjoy the desire of sin for a time.
Are not all the spirits of the spirits of the dead, sent out to do the work of the Lord?
And he said to him, We are going over from Beth-lehem in Judah to the farthest parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, where I am from. I went to Beth-lehem in Judah, but now I am going to the house of the Lord, and no man took me by night.
And he saw a sharp woman, the top of a ass, which was resting there, and was put to death by a thousand men.
And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men who were in the houses of the house of Micah came together and overtook the children of Dan.
So let all your haters be turned to destruction, O Lord, and those who love him as the way of the sun in its power. And the land was resting forty years.
Do not be feeble in your hearts, as in the day of trouble, as in the day of testing in the waste land;
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to fight against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim, and Israel was very sad.
Is not this David of whom they said one to another, saying, Saul put to death his thousands, and David, his ten thousands?
Now let our lord give orders to your servants, who are before you, to make search for a man who is expert in the harp: and when the evil spirit of God is on you, he will be with his hand, and you will be well.
And Abimelech came near the tower, and was fighting against him: and he came near to the door of the doorway to put fire on it.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
And Saul was attempting to put him to death, even to the wall with the spear; but he went away from Saul's face, and he put the spear into the wall; and David went in flight and went away from that night.
At the sound of the stamping of the horse's horn, the sound of his war-horses.
And they took the ark of God and put it into the house of Dagon, and put it in the house of Dagon.
And for twenty years in the days of the Philistines he judged Israel.
And David said to the men who were waiting by him, What will be done to the man who takes the death of the Philistines, and take away the shame of Israel? for who is this unclean Philistine, to make sport of the armies of the living God?
But the upright will have faith in the faith, and if he takes away the desires of his soul, I will have no pleasure in him.
Saying, Truly I will give you a blessing, and I will give you great numbers of great numbers.
And Saul said, I have done wrong, O David my son, for I will no longer do you evil, because my life has been very great in your eyes this day: for it is clear that I have done a foolish thing and have no knowledge in much things.
And Micah said to him, Go with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten silver shekels and clothing and clothing, and the Levites went in.
And when she had taken an ass, and came down to the mountain, David and his men came down against her, and she came to them.
And the king said to the priests, Let the priests be put to death, and let the people of Edom come to the priests, and put on the priests, and put on the linen robes that day.
Do not go back from this, till my coming in to you, and I have taken my present and put it before you. And he said, I am waiting till your back.
They will be cut off, but you will be as old as a robe.
So that I might have knowledge of him, and the power of his coming back to life, and the blessing of his pains, being made ready to death;
And Israel was very poor because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord.
For the word of God is living, working in working, more than every two-edged sword, cutting off as far as a band and spirit, which is feeble and strong, and able to judge the thoughts and thoughts of the heart.
Now there was a resting place between the army of the Philistines, and the top of the rock on one side, and the top of the rock on the other; and the name of the one was Cleopas, and the name of the other was named.
And after a certain time, when their hearts were full of joy, they said, Take up Jonathan's son, and let him make us happy. And they took him from the prison, and put him in his place. And they made him stand between the pillars.
And David's men said to him, See, today is the day of which the Lord said to you, See, I give your hater into your hands, and you may do to him whatever seems good to you. So David got up and took the robe of Saul in secret.
And they got up early; and when it was about the dawn, Samuel sent to Saul on the roof, saying, Get up, and I will send you away. And Saul got up, and they went out from them, he and Samuel, into the street.
Even as for Zebah and Zalmunna, he went after them; and he took away the two kings of Midian, like Zebah and Zalmunna, and made sport of all the army.
And when he came, he saw a vision seated on the seat by the wayside, for his heart was moved for the ark of God: and the man came to say to it in the town, and all the town was crying out.
And at the end of two months, when she came back to her father, she did with her as he had said, and she had no knowledge of man. And it was a law in Israel.
And he went back to Ramah, for there was his house; and there he was judged by Israel, and there he made an altar to the Lord.
And David got up early in the morning, and went out from the flock with the keeper of the flock, and took and went, as Jesse had given orders to him: and he came to the place of the war-carriages, as the army had gone out for the fight.
So all the children of Israel came to the house of God, and they took their seats and weeping before the Lord; and they went without food till evening, and gave him burned offerings and peace-offerings.
This is what you are to do: every male and woman who has sex with a man are to be put to death.
And he took the three hundred men into three bands; and he put a horn in every man's hand, with the cups and lights inside the vessels.
And Saul took three thousand men out of all Israel, and went to search for David and his men on the rock of the field.
Then they came back from Gilgal, and said to the king, O king, I have a secret word to you, O king. And he gave orders to keep quiet, and all went out to him.
So that God may give more to the haters of David, if I go from all these things to him by the morning light, if any man takes note of the wall.
And Hananiah said, My heart is full of joy in the Lord: my horn is lifted up in the Lord: my mouth is wide over my haters, because I am glad in your salvation.
And I will take away their sins and their wrongdoing no more.
And she took his position with the hammer, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, O Philistines; and he got up from his sleep and went with the band of needlework and the House.
Say to the chiefs of Shechem, What is better for you, that seventy men of Baal have rule over you, or that one man is ruling over you? I am your bone and your flesh.
Now Abimelech was king over Israel for three years.
And the children of Hobab the Kenites, Moses' father-in-law, went up with the children of Judah, out of the town of the field, into the waste land of Judah, which is in the South side of the South; and they went and put their tents on the people.
For even though you are to be teachers by this time, you have need of one to teach you again the desires of the words of God, and you have need of milk, not solid food.
And David said to Jonathan, Who will give me a word if your father will give you an answer against me?
But when Israel became strong, he made them strong, and did not send destruction on them.
And the Philistines said to David, Come to me, so that I may give your flesh to the birds of heaven and to the beasts of the field.
And he said, Why does my lord go after his servant? what have I done? what is evil in my hand?
And Samuel did what the Lord said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the responsible men of the town came trembling to him and said, Have you come in peace?
For he was looking for a town which has been put to the earth: the builder and the maker of God are God.
And his father went down to the woman, and there was a feast for him, as young men were doing this.
And to Jesus, the relation of a new agreement, and to the blood which was given to him, is better than Abel.
Who will put our body of shame to the body of glory, which is the work of power which he has to put under his control.
Now be certain and see what you are to do: for evil is turned against our master and against all his house: for he is a good-for-nothing man, and there is no one to say to him.
And every man got up in his place round about the tent-circle; and all the army went running in flight and went in flight.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistines, whom you sent to the west in the valley of God, see that it is a band of cloth in the ephod: if you will take it, take it, for there is no other saviour. And David said, There is no one like that. Give it to me.
And you will take these ten cuts on the head of the thousand, and take care of them for peace, and for their debt.
And he sent parting baal, and said to him, Give orders to the Lord, and he will give you orders, and he will take you from the hand of your haters round about, and you will be safe.
So that you may see and take note of what you are to do: for evil has come against our master and against all his house; and he is a sinner, and no man is able to make a cause for him.
Make a question to your servants, and they will say to you, Let the young men be glad in your eyes, for we have come on a feast; give whatever you have on your servants and your son David.
Not in the agreement which I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to take them out of the land of Egypt: for they did not keep my agreement, and I did not take care of them, says the Lord.
Now after Abimelech came to help Israel, Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodai, a man of Issachar; and he was living in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and put their destruction on the land of Israel that day, twenty thousand men.
Only let your life be as it is for the good news of Christ, that if I come and see you, or you are away, I may give hearing of your things, so that you may be kept in one spirit with one mind for the faith of the good news.
And so we saw that they were not able to go in because of their faith.
So take the hands of the body, and the feeble knees,
And all Midian and Amalek and the children of the east came together and put up their tents in the valley of Jezreel.
All of you have made a design against me, and there is no one to say to me, when my son has made a agreement with the son of Jesse: and there is no one of you who has pity on me, or has knowledge of me that my son has made my servant angry, as at this day.
And he said to her, Give me a little water, for I am in need of water; and she gave the bottle of milk and gave him drink and covered him.
And Jonathan and David made a agreement, because he had love for him as his soul.
And he saw a certain ass of a ass; and he went down and took it and put to death one thousand men.
And Saul said, Send me between my son Jonathan, and Jonathan.
And when she had sent him hard with her words, and took care of him, his soul was troubled.
And the son of David said to her, If you put me on my bed with seven fir-bow-bow-bow-bow-crushing, I will become feeble like all men.
And one day, when he was sleeping in his place, his eyes became feeble, and he was not able to see.
And Jonathan said to David, My father Saul is looking for you to put you to death. Now now, take care of yourself in the morning, and be living in a secret place, and take cover.
So David again gave directions to the Lord, and the Lord said to him, Up, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
And the sons of Jabesh-gilead were a strong man, and he was the son of a loose woman: and Gilead became the father of Japhlet.
Whose end is destruction, whose god is the stomach, and whose glory is in their shame, who have thought of earth.
And Saul's servants said these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a light in your eyes to be the king's father-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, and a man's opinion?
And the Lord said to him, Truly I will be with you, and you will put to death the Midianites as one man.
And they went and went and put the little children and the oxen and the vessels before them.
And make prayer for us, for we are waiting for ourselves a good heart in all things, in all things that are right.
And of these beasts whose blood is offered for sin, into the holy place by the chief priest, they are burned outside the tent-circle.
And her husband got up and went after her, to give her back, and his young man with him, and a couple of asses; and she took him into the house of her father, and the father of the girl saw him and was glad to see him.
And Jonathan, the son of Saul, got up and went to David at Hormah, and took care of him by God.
And on the second day, Saul put the people in three bands; and they came into the middle of the tents in the morning, attacking the children of Ammon till the heat of the day: and the rest of the people were wandering, and they were not two of them.
And the children of Israel put away the Baals and the rod and the Lord only.
And he said to her, If they have taken me with seven green cords, I will become feeble and be like a man.
Now Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, was one hundred ten years old.
Because of envy, hard for the church, because of the righteousness which is in the law, there is no wrong.
From where he is able to give salvation to those who come through him to God for ever.
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they saw the child beautiful, and they were not afraid of the word of the king.
And when the people saw the people, he said to the Kenites, See, people come down from the tops of the mountains. And Kain said to him, You see the shade of the mountains as if they were men.
Go now, get up, and see, and see where his resting-place is, and see where his house is, and who has seen him there: for it is said to me that he is cruel to me.
And she sent and said to him, The Lord, the God of Israel, says to him, The Lord, the God of Israel, has said to you, Go and take an army on Mount Tabor, with ten thousand men of the land of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun.
And now, if you have done true and true what you have done, O king, you have made a decision for King Abimelech; and if you have done well with baal and his house, and have done to him what he has done,
Make straight steps straight with your feet, so that no one may go out of the way, but be well.
And have knowledge of you, O you who have been fair to me, because of the good news, when I came out of Macedonia, and no church was given to me in the way of giving and receiving salvation for you.
And there is no man who has no power before him, but all things are uncovered and put to his eyes, with whom we have to do.
And when they had taken food in Shiloh, and had been drinking wine, the priest was seated on his seat by the door of the house of the Lord.
Then she was weeping before the son of Barachel, and said, You have hated me, and have no love for me: you will not give me the sense which you have given to the sons of my people. But he said, I will not give it to my father and mother, and how will I give it to you?
And he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and went through the land of envy, but they did not find them; and they went through the land of Ararat, and there they were not; and he went past the land of Benjamin, but they did not find them.
And three thousand of Judah went down to the rock of Etam, and said to him, Have you seen that the Philistines are rulers over us? and what have you done to us? And he said, As they did to me, so I did to them.
And all these were put to death in faith, not having the word, but when they had seen them far away, and had overcome them and put their arms on them, saying that they were living in the land and in the earth.
Now there was no wise man in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines had said, So that the Hebrews might not give swords or spears for themselves.
And he said, I have made an ass of an ass with the sharp ass of asses, and I have put to death a thousand men.
And the Philistines put themselves in position against Israel; and when they went together, Israel was overcome by the Philistines, and they put to death four thousand men in the field.
And she said to him, How can you say, I love you, when your heart is not with me? these three times you have made sport of me, and have not said to me in what is your strength.
Woe to us! who will give us out of the hand of these great gods? these are the gods who put the Egyptians to death in the waste land.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went away, she and her friends, and made haircloth on the mountains.
And Adam said to the angel of the Lord, What is your name, that when your word comes to us, we may be honoured?
And David said to Abimelech, Is there not under your hand a spear or a sword in your hand? for I have not put my sword or my instruments with me, because the king's business is quickly ready.
And he went through the waste land and went round the land of Edom and the land of Moab, at the coming of the sun of Moab; and they put up their tents on the other side of the Arnon, and did not come to the limit of Moab, for the Arnon, the limit of Moab.
And take these ten sticks to the captain of the thousand, and see how your brothers go, and take their payment.
And Saul put up their tents in the hill-country of Ararat, which is before the waste land; but David was there in the waste land, and he saw that Saul came after him into the waste land.
And he said to Jether his oldest son, Up, put them to death; but the young man did not put his sword in flight, because he was still a young man.
And he said to them, Let me, I pray you, give a riddle to you: if you give me the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty linen robes and thirty robes of clothing.
And he let them go into the town, and they overcame the town with the sword; but they let the man and all his family go.
And Moses was true in all his house as a servant, for a witness of those things which were to be said,
And stretching out his left hand, he took the spear from his right leg and put it into his stomach.
And all the tribes of Israel came near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And I went after him, and overcame him, and took it out of his mouth; and when he came up against me, I took him by his face and put him to death and put him to death.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came to her seven cords, which was said about them, with which she put him in chains.
And Jonathan went out in the morning to the field for David, and a young child was with him.
Now the name of the man was Nabal's wife, and the name of his wife was Abigail; and she was a wise and beautiful woman, but her husband was full of fear and evil, and he was of the family of Caleb.
And his father's father, the young woman, kept him safe; and he stayed with him for three days: so they took food and drink and put their rest in the night.
And Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
Now if he was on the earth, he would not be a priest at all; for there are those who give the offerings by the law.
And he made selection of it a little house for the god, and made an ephod, and gave it to him, saying, A holy robe and an image of images; and he was full of his sons, and he became his priest.
And David got up early in the morning, and went out from the flock with a watchman, and took his orders and went, as Jesse had given him orders. And he came to the top of the Sanhedrin, and the army went out with a loud voice for the fight.
Now the children of Benjamin had no knowledge of the children of Israel, that the children of Israel had come up to Mizpah. And the Levite, the husband of the woman who was put to death, said, How great is the sin which has been done!
And Moses said, I am full of fear and full of fear.
By faith they went through the Red Sea as on dry land: and when the Egyptians were attempting to do so, they were swallowed up.
Who was the glory of his glory, and the image of his image, and who kept all things by the word of his power, when he had made himself clean by himself, and took his seat on the right hand of the king on high:
For I have said this to him, that I will judge his house for ever, because he had knowledge that his sons did evil, and he did not give them punishment.
His sons did not go in his ways, but turned away from deceit, taking a reward of money, and made right decisions.
And David said, I have kept all this in the waste land, and have nothing to do with all that he has, and turning back evil for good.
In addition, we had the fathers of our flesh to put punishment on us, and we gave them honour: will we not give much more to the Father of spirits and life?
And he said to them, See me, and do; and I will come to the end of the tents, and it will be as I am doing.
And when Samuel was turned away, he put on the robe of his robe, and it was broken.
For seven days he kept waiting for seven days, when Samuel had not come to Gilgal; and the people were sent away from him.
And the responsible men of Gilead say to themselves, May the Lord give ear to us if we do not do so.
But the people took some of the cattle and oxen, as the first fruits of those who were put to death, to make offerings to the Lord their God at Gilgal.
And there went out a great man out of the tents of the Philistines, named Goliath, the Gittite, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And the people went up on the goods and took sheep and oxen and oxen and put them to death on the earth; and the people took their food with the blood.
And when his servants had told David the words which Saul had said, the word pleased David to be the king's son in law.
So all the men of Israel came together against the town, together with one man.
And he took the rod and what was on it, and put it before Saul; and he said, See, the people have been put before you; for it has been kept for you for the time. And he said, I have taken the people. And he took food with Samuel that day.
And David came to Saul and took his place before him; and he was dear love for him, and he became his arms.
And Saul gave ear to the voice of Jonathan, saying, As the Lord lives, he will not be put to death.
In those days he has said to us by his Son, whom he has put over all things, by whom he made the world.
And David said to Jonathan, Who will say to me, May your father answer you roughly?
And when the people saw him, they gave praise to their gods: for they said, Our god has given us up into our hands, and the destruction of our country, who have put up a great number of us.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of those who were cruel to them, and gave them into the hands of their haters round about; and they were not able to be able to be able before their haters.
In the days of the grain-cutting, at the time of the grain-cutting, the son of Barachel, the son of the goats, said, I go in to my wife, to the inner room. And her father did not let him go in.
Who will make clear the body of our shame, so that it may be made complete to the body of his glory, as he is able to do all things to himself.
And there was a certain man, an old man who came from the field in the evening, and the man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he was a traveller in Gibeah, and the men of Benjamin.
And the children of Israel went from there, every man to his father and his family, and every man went out from there to his heritage.
And the people came into the wood, and saw that the honey was flowing: but no one put his hand to his mouth, because the people were afraid of the oath.
And all the responsible men of Israel came together and went to the town of God to Ramah.
And when the rest of the night was in the middle of the night, he got up in the middle of the night and took the doors of the town, and put them on the doors and put them on his shoulders, and took them up to the top of the hill which is before Hebron.
He will keep the feet of his saints, and the evil-doer will be quiet in the dark, because no man is overcome by his strength.
See, I put the wool of wool on the grain-floor; if the dew is on the wool, and it is dry on all the earth, I will see that you will keep Israel by my hand, as you have said.
And David and all the people who were with him gave up their voices and weeping till there was no strength in them.
And the children of Israel were named out of Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
And Jesse put him in position before Samuel; but he said, The Lord has not taken this man.
And he went out from the town of Beth-lehem, and desired to go to the country where he was to be a guest for him; and when he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, he went on his journey and took a little in the house of Michmas.
Now then, give ear to the voice of your servant, and let me put a bit of bread before you, and take food so that you may have strength, when you go on your way.
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Do not stop crying to the Lord our God, that he will keep us safe from the Philistines.
Looking on him, the word of God and the end of faith, when he had a joy before him, keeping the cross with shame and shame, seated on the right hand of God.
But if I say to the boy, See, the arrows are greater than you; then go your way: for the Lord has sent you away.
And they said to one another, Who has done this thing? And when they sent questions, they said, The son of Joash has done this thing.
And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me go through your land, but he would not go down to his request; but he sent to the king of Moab, who did not let him go. So he went in to Kadesh.
And I gave you up out of the hands of the Egyptians, and out of the hands of all your haters, driving them out from before you, and gave you their land.
And being full of the fruit of righteousness through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
For you are to give birth and have a son, and there is no one to touch his head: for he will be a prophet of God, and from his mother and his mother's body; and he will take Israel out of the hands of the Philistines.
And as soon as he was dead, the children of Israel turned again and made themselves unclean after the Baals, and made Baal their god.
And the chiefs of all the people, all the tribes of Israel, gave themselves up in the meeting of the people of God, four hundred thousand men ready for war.
By faith Joseph, as he was dead, said of the children of Israel, and gave orders about his bones.
And the Philistines went up and put up their tents in Judah, and put themselves in a meeting place.
And Abigail went quickly, taking two hundred cakes and two cups of wine and five sheep, and five measures of fire, and a hundred cakes of raisins, and two hundred clusters of figs, and put on the asses.
And the gold cutters, after the number of all the towns of the Philistines, and their five rulers, from the strong town to the unwalled town, as far as the great stone, where they put the ark of the Lord to this day in the land of Joshua, in the land of Beth-shemesh.
The sons of David were Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they became their wives.
At that time the daughters of Israel went to talk to the daughter of Iphtah men, four days in a year.
For this cause, because we are the kingdom of the kingdom, let us give praise to God, through which we may be holy, and fear and fear.
And he said to them, This is what Micah did to me; and he took me, and I am to him for a priest.
Be full of joy in the Lord, and I say, Be glad.
But they gave no memory of the Lord their God, driving them into the hands of Sisera, the captain of the armies of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab, and they were fighting against them.
And the armed men saw a man coming out of the town, and said to him, Give us orders to go into the town, and we will be kind to you.
And he took his rod in his hand, and he took five smooth stones out of the stream, and put them in the bag of the bag which he had, and he came near to the Philistines.
And David said to the Philistines, You come to me with the sword and with a spear and with a spear: but I come to you in the name of the Lord of armies, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have made sport of.
But he gave him a second part twice, for he had love for Hananiah, but the Lord shut her up.
And I see that you are not a saviour, and I put my life in my hand and go over to the children of Ammon, and the Lord gave them into my hands: why have you come up to me this day to make war against me?
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, when he was dead.
And the men of Israel said, Have you seen that this man has come up? he has come up to shame against Israel; and the man who has put him to death will come to him, and the king will give him great wealth and give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
There was a man in Maon, who had much property in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand sheep, and he was cutting off his sheep in Carmel.
And the children of Israel put away the images of Baal and the Baals, and the Lord only.
And Jonathan said to David, Come, let us go out into the field; and they went out into the field.
And the heart of the priest was glad; and he took the ephod and the images and the images and went with the people.
And the men of war went in flight and went in flight on the town of Gibeah; and the men of war went out with the edge of the sword and overcame all the town.
And he would not say, I have no food. And his servants and the woman, and the woman, gave ear to their voice and got up from the earth, seated on the bed.
And Saul took David with his arms, and put a head-dress of brass on his head; and he took him with a robe of iron.
And the Lord will give Israel into the hands of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me; and the Lord will give the army of Israel into the hands of the Philistines.
And on the seventh day they said to the wife of the wife of the wife of the wife of the Rechabites, This is how he may make clear to us the story, or we will be burning with fire and your father's house: have you sent us to shame us? is it not?
So God made it hard for Jabin, the king of Canaan, before the children of Israel:
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have done wrong, do you to us whatever seems good to you: only give us salvation.
And Saul said to his brother, He made clear to us that the asses were found, but of the rule of the kingdom of Samuel.
And a man of Benjamin went out of the army, and came to the same day at Shiloh, with his clothing torn and dust on his head.
And all those who saw it said, There was no such acts or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt to this day: take note of it, and give ear to your mind.
Now the Philistines had come together with their armies for war; and they took their tents together in their tents, which is in Judah, and put up their tents between Geba and Azekah, at Riblah.
For I have given you orders frequently, as I have said to you frequently, even as those who are against the cross of Christ.
The mountains were shaking before the Lord, and this Sinai, before the Lord, the God of Israel.
And he gave birth to one part of her body, because he loved a woman, and the Lord kept her.
But I am able to have faith in the flesh; if any man is to put his hope in the flesh, I will do so more.
And he said to him, Where is your mouth now that you say, Who is Abimelech, that we may serve him? is not this the people whom you have made sport of? go out now and make war with them.
And he said to her all his heart, There is no loss on my head; for I have been a separate man to God from my mother's body: if I have been cut off, then my strength will go from me, and I will become feeble and be like a man.
And their fathers and their brothers will come and say against you, We will say to them, Have pity on them, for they did not take them away as by the sword or as they did; but when they said to them, You did not give them up, and you did not give them their wrongdoing.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner, the son of Ner, the father of Saul.
And when the servants of David came, they gave birth to the prophet's words in the name of the Lord, and they kept quiet.
For the flesh of these beasts, whose blood is in the most holy priest, is burned outside the tent-circle.
Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Naham, the son of Michri, the son of Hasshub, the son of a Benjamite, a man of war.
Then Hananiah said, My heart has lifted up my heart in the Lord; my horn is lifted up in the Lord, and my mouth is great over my haters; for I have delight in your salvation.
And to those in Aroer, for those who were in Midian, and to those who were in Eshtemoa,
And Samuel said, Has the Lord delight in burned offerings and offerings, as in keeping the voice of the Lord? See, let it be better than to give ear, and to give ear than the fat of sheep.
And David said to Saul, Your servant was keeping care of his father's sheep; and when a lion or a she-child came and took a lamb out of the flock,
And after the third time, the name of the Lord came to the name of Samuel, and he got up and said, Here am I, for you have called me. And she saw that the Lord had given him the child.
And Samuel said to all the people of Israel, If you come back to the Lord with all your heart, put away the strange gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and give your heart to the Lord, and be his servant, and he will give you salvation from the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul said, Happy are you by the Lord, for you have had mercy on me.
And he took away the tower of Peniel, and put to death the men of the town.
And she said, The glory has been taken away from Israel, because the ark of God is taken.
And they said, We will not put you to death, but we will put you in chains, and they put him in two cords and took him from the rock of Etam.
And Saul said, Am I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family is the least of all the families of Benjamin, and why do you say to me after this?
And you have come up against my father's house, and have put to death his sons, seventy souls, on one stone, and Abimelech, the son of his servant, king over Shechem, because he is your brother.
So David went in secret in the field; and when the new moon came, the king took him down to take food.
And his wife, who was in Shechem, gave birth to a son, and gave birth to Abimelech.
And the three divisions sounded the horns, and the vessels were broken, and the lights in their left hands, and the horns in their right hands: and they were crying out, The sword of the Lord and of Israel.
And he said to his servants, May the Lord be slow to do this to my lord, the Lord's selection, to put out my hand against him, seeing that he is the Lord's selection.
So then, my loved ones, even as you did all things, not only in my face, but now much more in my need, working out your salvation with fear and trembling.
And the people gave orders to him, saying, So will it be done to the man who puts him to death.
And David overcame the land, and there was no man or woman living, and the sheep and the oxen and the asses and the camels and the clothing. And he came back and came to his face.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you troubled me, to give me up? And Saul said, I am greatly troubled: for the Philistines are fighting against me, and God has gone away from me, and I will not answer me again, or by the prophets or by dreams. So I have given you a name that you may make clear to me what I will do.
In that day I will make a decision against you all that I have said about his house, and I will make an end of it.
And all Israel and Judah love David, when he goes out and coming before them.
And Deborah, the son of Abinadab, was on that day, saying,
And the angel of God said to him, Take the meal and the unleavened cakes, and put them on this rock, and let loose the soup. And he did so.
The Lord will give to every man his righteousness and his faith, because the Lord has given you into my hand today, and I will not put out my hand against the king of the Lord.
And Saul gave ear to the voice of Jonathan, saying, The Lord is living; he will not be put to death.
And David went out with the Philistines and went out with the Philistines and put them to death with a great slaughter; and they went in flight before him.
And five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite and the Zidonians and the Hivites living in Lebanon, from Mount Hermon, as far as Hamath.
This day the Lord will give you my hand, and I will send destruction on you and take away your head from you, and I will give the dead bodies of the army of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth, and to the beasts of the earth, so that all the earth may see that there is a God in Israel.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave them into the hands of Shushan, the king of Mesopotamia: and the people of Israel came to Gittaim for eight years.
Be quiet with me, do not be afraid: for he who is looking for my life is looking for your life, but with me you will be safe.
And he will take your daughters as an ox of perfumes, and his daughters like instruments of perfumes.
Because there is no profit for their profit, because he has said, No, I will not go away or give up.
Now as for Zebah and Zalmunna, with their armies, were about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the armies of the east: there was a hundred and twenty thousand men of war.
And the man said to him, Let the fat be burned first, and then take as much as your soul desires. And he said, No, but you will give it to me now; and if not, I will take it by force.
And David said to the people, and to Abner, the son of Ner, Will you not give an answer, Abner? And Abner said, Who are you, crying out of the king?
But you have done well, and have taken note of my trouble.
And one of the young men said to Abigail, the wife of Nabal, who said, See, David sent men out of the waste country to our master, and he made sport of them.
And she said to the child, The glory has gone away from Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and her father was in law and her husband.
But if you do not keep the voice of the Lord, but have been turned against the orders of the Lord, then the hand of the Lord will be against you, as it was against your fathers.
And Saul did not see David with a good eye from that day and forward.
Now Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went with his brothers and went to Shechem; and Shechem was put to shame in him.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you troubled me by taking me up? And Saul said, I am in trouble: for the Philistines are about to make war against me, but God has turned away from me, and he will not give me any more, or by the prophets or by the dreams. So I sent to you to let me see what I should do.
Do not be taken away by different and strange teaching: for it is good that the heart is made by grace, not by food, in which they are not given profit.
And the trees said to the vine, Come, and be king over us.
And Saul sent men to David's house to take care of him and put him to death in the morning; and Michal, the wife of David, said to him, If you do not give your life to the night, tomorrow you will be put to death.
And the tenth of your seed and of your vine-gardens he will give to his servants and his servants.
So the Lord went out from all these nations, and he would not quickly put them to death, and he gave them over to Joshua.
For the work of Christ he came near to death, and his life was to give effect to what was needed for me.
And Michal took the house, put it on the bed, and put a goat's hair on its head, and covered it with the clothing.
And David and his men went up and made war on the people of Geshur and over Amalek: for they were the people of the land, who were of old, on the way to Shur, even to the land of Egypt.
And Jonathan took off the robe which was on him, and gave it to David and his clothing, with his sword and his bow and his band.
And the people took the food in their hands and their horns, and every man of Israel he sent away, every man to his tents; and on the third part of the valley were the army of Midian.
Now the ark of the Lord had been in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And they sent representatives to all the tribe of Benjamin, to say to them, Why is this disgusting thing among you?
And the spirit of the Lord came on him, and he went down to the place of Ashkelon, and put to death there thirty men, whose clothing he took away and gave to those who had given effect to the sense; and when he was angry, he went up to his father's house.
Because you have been given to Christ, not only to the faith only but for him.
And I will not have memory of their sins or their wrongdoing any more.
And Abimelech said to the king, Who is the true of all your servants David, who is the king's son in law, and who goes at your word and is honoured in your house?
And the children of Israel went back by their tribes and families, to their tents: in those days there was no king in Israel: but every man did what was right in his eyes.
And all the responsible men of Israel came together and went to the town of God to Ramah.
And David said, Truly I have kept safe all that this man had in the waste land: and there was no thought to all that was his, but he came back evil against me in place of good.
And I have knowledge of this, that I may keep myself safe with you all, to your purpose and joy of the faith,
And it came to the end of deceit, saying, Up, for this is the day when the Lord has given you up into your hands. See, he is your leader: he went down from Mount Tabor and ten thousand men with him.
For this reason the teaching of the first law of Christ, let us make it clear, that we may not be able to put a foundation of the change of the faith which has been put to death from the dead, by faith to God;
And Saul said to him, Why have you made a design against me, you and the son of Jesse, in which you gave him bread and a sword and have asked of God for him, so that he would come against me and be waiting, as at this day?
For the sin of the false god is like the sin of false men, and the pride of their images is shame; because you have turned away from the word of the Lord, he has put your face on you from being king.
And David said in his heart, I will certainly be put to death one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I would go quickly to the land of the Philistines; and Saul will have sorrow of me to search for me in any land of Israel: so will I get away from his hand.
And Caleb said, He who attacks Kiriath-sepher and took it, I will give my daughter Achsah to him.
Do not be taken away by different and strange teaching; for it is good for the heart to be made strong by grace, not by food, by which those who have not had a part in need.
For we have knowledge of the one who said, I will give punishment to me, I will give punishment; and the Lord will judge his people.
And he took away the blood of the seventy sons of Baal, and the blood of their blood on Abimelech, their brother, and on the rest of the rulers of the town, helping him.
And Jonathan said to David, O Lord, the God of Israel, when I have gone to search for my father, tomorrow the third, and see, I will send good news to David, and I will not send to you and have uncovered your ear:
And he took the young goat with the meal offering and put it on the rock to the Lord; and the angel had a wonder, and his wife was watching.
And the three hundred men were waiting for the horns; and the Lord sent the sword into all the tent-circle, and they put to death one another.
For this child I made prayer, and the Lord gave me my request which I had said:
And he had great instruments of brass on his feet, and a network of brass between his arms.
So the Lord went out from among the nations, and did not send them out quickly; he did not give them into his hands.
And the men of Israel went in flight, and Benjamin had begun to put the wounded wounded among the men of Israel, about thirty men, for they said, Truly they are put to death before us as the first war.
And he said to them, If you are to make me king, come and rest under my shade; but if you do not say it, let fire come out of the thorns, and burn down the cedars of Lebanon.
And the children of Israel went up to weeping before the Lord till evening, questioning the Lord, saying, Am I to go near to war with the sons of Benjamin, my brother? And the Lord said, Go up against him.
And in the law his son did not give ear to his words; but he went and came to the place of Jebus, which is named Jerusalem, with two asses loaded with his wife.
Now Saul had news that David and the men who were with him had been there; and Saul was seated at Gibeah under the tree at Ramah; and his spear was in his hand, and all his servants were round him.
And before they were burned the fat, the servant of the priest came and said to the man who was offering, Give me flesh to make a boil for the priest: for I will not take of you a cooked flesh, but be open.
And all the words of the Lord came to Samuel, saying,
And he put over the House and all the vessels of the House in the same way with the blood.
Give ear, O kings; give ear, you rulers: I will make a song to the Lord; I will make a song to the Lord, the God of Israel.
And the Philistines came together to Aphek, and the children of Israel put up their tents by a water-spring in Jezreel.
So that you may not be in the way of the hater, but be guided by the example of those who have the word through faith and by faith.
But he said to me, See, you are to give birth and give birth to a son, and do not drink wine or strong drink, or take any unclean thing: for the child will be a separate man to God from the body to the day of his death.
And wisdom said to the responsible men of Gilead, Have you not hated me? and you sent me out of my father's house, and why have you come to me now when you are in trouble?
And Saul said, Let us go down with the Philistines by night, and let us take their goods till the morning light, and let us not go away from one of them. And they said, Do whatever seems good to you. Then the priest said, Let us go near here to God.
Then the woman came out at dawn, and went down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light.
Now the God of peace, who has come back from the dead our Lord Jesus, who is the shepherd of the flock, by the blood of the eternal testament,
Be awake, O woman of grief; awake, awake, awake, and give up a song; get up and take away your prisoners, O daughter of Abinadab.
And he said to him, Have no fear; for Saul my father will not see you; and you will be king over Israel, and I will be with you; and my father Saul knows that.
And the knowledge of Christ has come from the heart of the man, and makes trouble in my chains;
And Jonathan said to him, Tomorrow let the moon and the moon be seen, for your seat is fixed.
But the men were very good to us, and we were not overcome, and we had no loss of anything, as long as we went with them in the field.
And when he went up, he went up by the way of his tents on the east, and went up to the east, and took care of the army; for the army was safe.
In the same way, because he was desiring to give more to the free part of the undertaking which he had made,
From that day on, changing the name of Baal, said, Let the god be put to shame on him who has put down his altar.
If this people were under my hand, then I would take Abimelech away. And he said to Abimelech, Give up your army and come out.
And when David came back from the death of the Philistines, Abner took him and took him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And he kept the Passover, and the blood of the blood, so that the destruction of the first was not touched them.
And when you saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, came against you, you said to me, No; but a king will rule over us, when the Lord your God was your king.
And he said to him, Far be it from me; you will not be put to death. See, my father is to do nothing great or small, and it is not good enough to come to me; why am my father veiled from me? it is not so.
And they were a wall to us by night and day, as we were with them keeping the sheep.
And it is not as if I had been in the past, that it was already true; but I go after myself, if I might take up the pains of Christ Jesus.
Having the same argument which you saw in me, and now you have ears to be in me.
But a certain fear of what is right, and a great wrath of fire, which is to be put to death.
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he was put to death with his sword.
So the Philistines were overcome, and they came no more into the land of Israel: and the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are these all the young men? And he said, There is still the youngest, and see, he is taking care of the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and get him; for we will not be seated at table till he come here.
From the first day till now.
Without father, without mother, without birth, or from the first, or from the end of life, but made like the Son of God: and there is to be a priest for ever.
But if I am living in the flesh, this is the fruit of my hard work: but I will not let it go.
And the people said to Saul, How is the death of Jonathan, who has done this great salvation in Israel? The Lord is living, if there is death from the hair of his head to the earth, because God has done this day. And the people give birth to Jonathan, and he has not come to death.
And the angel of the Lord put out the stick which was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and got up fire out of the rock and burned the flesh and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of the Lord went out from his eyes.
And they said, Up, and let us go up against them: for we have seen the land and see that it is very good: are you still still? do not be slow to go in to take the land.
And he said to him, See now, there is in this town a man of God, and he is a honoured man, and all that he says will come true: now let us go there, if he may give us our way that we may go.
And he went to the town of Ramah, and the Spirit of God came on him, and he went on and said to the prophet,
So that we may go with fear to the seat of grace, so that we may have mercy and may have grace in the time of need.
And Shammah, the son of David, took the two pillars on which the house was waiting; and he was joining himself on them, one with his right hand and the other with his left.
And they said, You have done nothing wrong with us, and you have not given us trouble; you have not taken a man's hand.
And Eliab, his oldest brother, said to the men, And the wrath of Eliab was burning against David, and he said, Why have you come down? and with whom have you left the flock in the waste land? I have knowledge of your pride and the heart of your heart, for you are come down to see the war.
See, I will put a wool of wool on the grain-floor; if there is dew on the wool, and it is dry on all the earth, I will see that you will keep Israel by my hand, as you have said.
And he said to Samuel, Go to sleep; and if he says to you, Say, Give to the Lord, for your servant is hearing. So Samuel went and went down to his place.
Now there was a man in the waste land of Maon, and his property was in Carmel, and the man was very great: and he had three thousand sheep and a thousand he-goats; and he was cutting off his sheep in Carmel.
And the boy had no knowledge of anything; only Jonathan and David had knowledge of the word.
And I have given up for me a true priest; as in my heart and in my soul he does it; and I have made for him a true house, and he has gone up and down before me all the days.
For I have said to him that I will be a judge to his house for ever because of the sin which he has knowledge of; because his sons have become evil, and he did not keep them.
Then Saul said, I have done wrong: go back, O David, my son, for I will no longer do you evil, because my soul is very dear in your eyes this day: see, I have been acting as a foolish man, and have gone away.
And all Israel, from Dan to Beer-sheba, saw that Samuel was a prophet of the Lord.
And the children of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and the Lord was with them.
And when she came to him, she made him requesting her father for a field. And when she got down from the ass, Caleb said to her, What do you want?
Then Saul gave orders to his servants, saying, Say to David in secret, See, the king is pleased with you, and all his servants have love for you. So then, be the son-in-law of the king.
And truly, those of the sons of Levi, who take the work of the priesthood, have a order to take the tenth part of the people by the law of their brothers, even though they come from Abraham:
Then Saul and his men went to search for him, and it was told David, and he went down to the rock in the waste country; and when Saul had news of it, he went after help after David in the waste land.
And he took his rod in his hand, and gave him five smooth stones out of the stream, and put them in the bag of the flock, which he had, and his mouth was in his hand; and he went near to the Philistines.
And Saul made an altar to the Lord, and the first altar he made to the Lord.
And he came up and said to his father and his mother, I saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: let her take her for my wife.
And the Lord said to Samuel, Give ear to the voice of the people, all that they say to you: for they have not turned away from you, but have made me king over them.
And the men of Israel were named out of Naphtali, Asher, and all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
So Joshua sent the people away, and all the children of Israel went to his heritage to take care of it.
And one rock went out from the north to the north, and the other to the south opposite Geba.
And Saul said to Jonathan, his son, and to all his servants, to put David to death;
So that through the two change of things, in which it is possible for God to be false, we who have been made safe may have power of comfort to the hope which is made before us;
For they have become priests without an oath, but by the oath of the oath by him who says, The Lord has made an oath, and will not be changed from it: you are a priest for ever, even for ever.
And Saul made an oath to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord is living, there will be no punishment for you.
For whom the Lord has loved, he takes care of the rod, and every son whom he has taken away.
And she put it on the band, and said to him, The Philistines are on you, and the Philistines are on you. And the king got up from his sleep and took away the scale of the house, and the scale of the house.
But you have knowledge of the sign of him, that, as a child is a father, so he gives me the position of the good news.
And he put his life in his hand, and put to death the Philistines, and the Lord made great salvation for all Israel; and you saw it and were glad: why then will you sin against the death of a man who is to be put to death?
And Saul said to the Rechabites, Go away, take away Amalek from Amalek, or I will send you to destruction with him: for you have given grace to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt. And the Kenites went away from Amalek.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and took them into the cross, and put them in the great place among those who had been invited, about thirty persons.
So Abimelech and all the people who were with him got up by night and were waiting for Shechem in four bands.
I made a request to them, and to give thought to the purpose of the Lord:
Take away the sin of your servant, for the Lord will certainly make my lord a safe house for ever: because my lord is fighting against the Lord, and evil has not been seen in you all your days.
Do not let good and good be done; for God takes pleasure in such a thing.
Now the Hebrew of the Philistines who were with the Philistines, and who went up with them into the tent-circle, went up from the country round about, with Saul and Jonathan.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, to make use of the cutting of the field, and the cutting of his body and the cutting of his head,
And David said, Will the men of Keilah take me and my men into the hands of Saul? And the Lord said, They will keep you safe.
But the evil of the evil-doer said, How will this man give salvation to us? and they made sport of him and did not give any gifts: but he kept quiet.
I am able to do all these things in him who has made me strong.
And the name of the town was named Dan after the name of their father, who was the son of Israel, before the name of the first.
And David was wise in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
For they did not keep the words of which it was said; If a beast goes on the mountain, it is to be stoned.
And Jonathan, Saul's son, got up and went to David into the wood and made his hands strong in God.
And he said to her all his heart, There is no loss on my head; for I am a man of God from my mother's body: if I would be cut off, then my strength would go from me, and I would be feeble and be like all men.
And to those at Hebron, and to all the places where David had gone up, he and his men.
And six hundred men of the children of Dan, armed with war, were at the door of the doorway.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and every man did what was right in his eyes.
And the attackers came out from the tents of the Philistines in three bands, and one went to the way of Ophrah, to the land of weeping.
Is not the grain of grain come to this day? I will send out to the Lord, and he will send thunder and rain, so that you may see and see that your evil-doing is great that you have done in the eyes of the Lord by making a king for yourselves.
So they went away from there to get the night in the town of Gibeah; and they went and took their seats in the open square of the town, but no man was taking them to the night.
And when the people came to the woods, the honey dropped down, but no man put his hand to his mouth, because the people were afraid of the oath.
Who will change the body of our body, and make the body of his glory like the body of his glory, which he is able to overcome all things for himself.
And they were a number of priests, because they had not been put to death by reason of death.
And he said to his young man, Go, get ready for the arrows which I have made: and as the boy was running, he sent an arrow on him.
I will send three arrows at it, and I will be like a mark on my head.
Then the father of Saul said to him, Say to me, What did Samuel say to you?
But when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the waste land to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And he gave them a great wound, and he went down and went in the hole of the rock of Etam.
And Samuel became old, and the Lord was with him, and did not let any of his words go to the earth.
And David said to the priest, The king says to me, The king has given me a request, saying, Let no man see what you are sent by me, and what I have given you orders: and I have given my servants to such and such a place.
See, you may not keep back the words of the man who says, for if those who have not been taken away from the earth were not able to get away from him, we who have not turned away from him from heaven.
And Saul, and Jonathan, his son, and the people who were present with them, were living in the town of Benjamin; but the Philistines were at Michmash.
And let them give ear to their voice; but let them give orders to them, and let them make clear to them the order of the king who will rule over them.
If you undergo training, God will do with you as with children; for what son is he whom the father gives not training?
And the five chiefs of the Philistines saw it, and went back to Ekron on that day.
And an angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to the place of weeping, and said, I have made you go out of Egypt, and have taken you into the land which I made an oath to your fathers; and I made an oath that I would not make my agreement with you for ever.
And his death was Abdon, the son of Dodai, the Pirathonite; and he was put to death in the mountains of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
And when the Lord sent you on your way, he said to you, Go and put destruction on the sinners and Amalek, and make war against them till you have put them to destruction.
And Saul sent representatives to Jesse, and said, Send me your son David, who is with the sheep.
And Shammah, the son said to her, If they put me on seven green sticks, I will become feeble and be like a man.
And between the outskirts of the valley of Jonathan went to the place of the Philistines, the edge of a rock on the one side, and the top of a rock on the other side; and the name of the one was Cleopas and the name of the other.
And you will give ear to what they say, and after that you will go down against the tent-circle. And he went down with the rod of his servant to the armed men who were in the tent-circle.
And they said to David, See, the Philistines are fighting in the land of Keilah, and they are keepers of the grain-floor.
And so that through Abraham even to Levi who has taken the tenth part, he has given the tenth part;
And they went up into the town; and when they were living in the town, Samuel came out against them to go up to the high place.
And the spirit of the Lord was on Saul, and he was seated in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was with his hand.
And to those in Aroer, and to those in En-dor and Eshtemoa,
So David sent out some men, and they saw that Saul was certain.
And this is what we say: We have a high priest, seated on the right hand of the king in heaven,
For a man's agreement is a cause of death where there is death; for it does not profit the man who made it safe.
And she said to her, How long will you get away? put away your wine from you.
And the Amorites made waste the children of Dan in the hill-country, and gave them no place to go down to the Arabah.
And laughing went away from his brothers, and took their living-place in the land of Samaria; and there were foolish men in laughing and went out with him.
So the Sabbath is resting for the children of God.
And the king of the children of Ammon said to the men of Tekoa, Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon to the Jabbok, and to the Jordan, now let the land be quiet.
And they said to the Lord, Is there still a man to come here? And the Lord said, See, he has taken his place in secret.
And when he had given orders to Saul, he sent other men, and they gave the news, and he sent representatives for the third time, and they gave the news. And Saul was very angry.
So from that day he made it a rule and a law for Israel till this day.
Now all the training of the present is not able to take it with joy, but only sorrow; but later it will give effect to those who are made by it, and the good fruits of righteousness.
And he said to them, Micah did this for me, and made me a servant, and I became his priest.
There is no division in Meribah, but it is good for the better.
Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Naham, the son of Michri, the son of Hasshub, the son of a Benjamite, a very great man.
And Israel sent representatives to Sihon, the king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, Let us go over our land, to my place,
And the husband said to her, Do what seems right to you, and take care of him till you take him; but may the Lord give effect to his word. And the woman did so, and took care of her son till she was a child.
And David said to his servants, Every man put on his sword. And every man put on his sword, and David put on his sword; and about four hundred men went after David, and two hundred men were waiting for them.
And when the Lord saw Hananiah, she became a child of three sons and two daughters; and the child of Samuel came up to the Lord.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she gave a loud voice, and the woman said to Saul, Why have you tricked me? for you are Saul.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord, and the Lord gave them into the hands of the Philistines for forty years.
But I have faith in the Lord, that I will come quickly.
And Saul said to his father's brother, He gave us a request for certain that the asses had been seen. But he did not make clear to him what the kingdom of Samuel had said.
But his wife said to him, If the Lord wanted to put us to death, he would not take away from us the burned offering and the meal offering, or let us see all these things, or let us have news of this.
And the men of death had not been put to death with the meal, and the cry of the town went up to heaven.
But Saul said nothing on that day, for he said, He is not clean; he is not clean.
But hard food is for the mature, who put their backs on the evil and the evil.
Now take a new cart, and take a new cart, and two young cows, on which there has come no yoke; and the oxen will be put to the cart, and their oxen will be taken away from them.
But it is necessary for me to send to you, my brother, and a man of war, and a man of war, and a man of war;
And the cloud went up out of the town in a pillar of smoke, and the sons of Benjamin saw them; and all the town went up to heaven.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they put to death at the rock of Oreb and in like Zeeb; and they put to death the chiefs of Midian, driving the heads of Oreb and Zeeb on the other side of Jordan.
And Samuel got up early to see Saul in the morning, and gave orders, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and he took up a pillar for himself and turned on and went down to Gilgal.
Then David made request to the Lord again. And the Lord said to him, Up, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into your hands.
Be awake, O woman of grief; awake, awake, and give up a song; get up, let your prisoners be taken prisoner, you son of Abinadab.
And his friend made answer and said, This is nothing but the sword of the son of Jehoash, the man of Israel: for God has given Midian and all the tents into his hands.
And Jair was the father of Jair, who was responsible for Israel for two and twenty years.
For there was a holy place, the first for the lights and the table and the holy bread, which is named the holy place.
Now there was a sign between the men of Israel and the rest of the people, to make a great cloud from the town.
And he went back to Ramah, where there was his house, and there he was judged Israel; and there he made an altar for the Lord.
For the land which makes the rain of the rain frequently on it, and gives food to them, for whose sakes it is planting, takes blessing from God;
And when she saw that he had faith in her, she sent for the chiefs of the Philistines, saying, Come up now, for he has faith in me. And the chiefs of the Philistines came up, and they took the money with them.
And Samuel was talking to the people, the right of the kingdom, and recorded in a book, and gave them before the Lord; and all the people went to his house.
And Samuel took a little child and gave it for a burned offering to the Lord; and Samuel was crying out to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord said to him,
And the Philistines took all their tents to Aphek, and the children of Israel were at the fountain of Jezreel.
And you are to make an altar to the Lord your God in the top of this rock, on which you put the offering before; and you are to take the second ox and make a burned offering on a mass of wood, which you cut down out of the garden.
But some of the foolish men said, How will this man give salvation to us? and they gave him no account, and gave him no meal, but he kept quiet.
And he sent representatives through Manasseh, and they went after him; and he sent representatives through Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and went up to them.
Then David went in flight and took his position over the Philistines, and took his sword and put it out of its place, and put him to death, cutting off his head with it: and when the Philistines saw that their men were dead, they went in flight.
And David said, The Lord, who took me out of the hand of the lion and the child, will keep me safe from the hand of the Philistines. And he said to David, Go and let the Lord be with you.
And it was said to Saul, See, David is at Ramah in the town of Ramah.
And a man of the people gave an answer, saying, May your father give orders to the people, saying, Cursed the man who has food for food today, and the people get tired.
Be strong and act like men, O Philistines; or you will come to be servants of the Hebrews, as they have been your servants: be strong and fight.
But we are not of those who are uncontrolled, but of those who have faith to the salvation of the soul.
And the Philistines went and came to David, and the man who gave birth to the body-covers went before him.
And he kept the Passover with faith and the blood of the blood, so that he who put destruction on the first child might not come near them.
And he said to him, Have no fear; for Saul my father will not see you; and you will be king over Israel, and I will be with you, and my father Saul has knowledge.
And Abimelech went after him, and he went in flight before him, and there were much wounded wounded in the doorway.
And the children of Ephraim came together and went to the north, and said to them, Why are you going to fight against the children of Ammon, and did not let us go with you? we will be burned with fire on you.
And David put his hand in his bag, and took away from there a stone and stretched it out, and overcame the Philistines in his brow, and the stone went down into his brow, and he went down on his face to the earth.
And when the young man came to the place where Jonathan had sent in flight, Jonathan said to the child, Is not the arrow on your side?
And I said, See, I am coming; in the book of the book it is written about me, to do your will, O God.
And Abraham gave his faith to Abraham, to go out to the place where he was going to get a heritage; and he went out without knowledge where he went.
Do not be overcome with other teachings, for it is a good thing that the heart is made by grace, not with food, which have no profit for those in it.
And Saul said to him, Why have you made a design against me, you and the son of Jesse, in which you gave him bread and a sword, and have news of God for him, so that he would come against me and be waiting, as at this day?
And Samuel got up early to see Saul in the morning, and it was told by Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and he put him up with a pillar and went on to Gilgal.
By faith Joseph, when he was near, said the children of Israel, and gave orders about his bones.
And God made the rock holy which was in a band of meeting, and water came out of it; and he was drinking, and his spirit came back to life: and its name was named Helkath, which is in a meeting-place to this day.
Now there was a sign between the men of Israel and the men, to make a great flame with smoke from the town.
These are the nations whom the Lord went away to test Israel, to test all those who had not seen the name of Canaan.
Then Saul said to his servant, Come, let us go. And they went to the town where the man of God was.
And his servants said to him, Do whatever you have to do: go wherever you will, and I will be with you wherever you have a mind.
And when he came to him, he was seated in the summer, which he had for himself by himself, and said, I have a word from God to you, and he got up from his seat.
And when the man got up to get away, he and his wife and his servant, his father, his father, said to him, See, the day has come to the evening; see that the day has come to an end; see, the day is getting to an end, so that your heart may be full of joy. And tomorrow you will get up early on your journey, and go to your house.
And the king's baal went up early with all the people with him, and came to the spring which is named the land. And the tents of Midian were in the valley on the north side of the mountain.
And there was about twenty men in the first place of death, which was the first of twenty men, in the same way as it were half of the land, and the oxen were ploughing.
And his war-man said to him, Do all that is in your heart: go, and see, I am with you in your hearts.
Seeing it is necessary for some to go in there, and to whom the good news was before the word of preaching, because of the evil news,
And now the king goes before you, but I am old and a man's head; and my sons are with you, and have gone with you from my youth to this day, and see here I am.
And a man said to the angel of the Lord, Let us take care of you and make ready before you a male goat.
And when the men came in, they saw an image on the bed, and a he-goat's skin at its head.
And the women gave an answer, saying, Saul has overcome his thousands, and David is among his ten thousands.
Then David got up and came to the place where Saul had put up his tents; and David saw the place where Saul was resting, with Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul went to the place of the carriage, and the people were round about him.
So they went in flight and got him there; and when he was among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his arms and over.
And lifting up his eyes, he saw the night in the public square: and the old man said, Where are you going? and where did you come from?
And he said, What is the thing that the Lord has said to you? I pray you, do not keep it from me: God does so to you, and more, if you keep secret from me everything he has said to you.
And this will not be an evil thing for you or a cause of evil, because of the blood of my lord, or by the blood of my lord; and when the Lord does good to my lord, remember your servant.
And when Jacob came into Egypt, and your fathers were weeping to the Lord, the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, who took your fathers out of Egypt, and made them their living-place in this place.
And the Lord said to him, Truly I will be with you, and you will put to death the Midianites as one man.
And Saul said, Am I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family, the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin, why have you said to me as this word?
For for six years Israel was judged for six years; and when she was put to death, she was put to death in the towns of Gilead.
But all Israel and Judah loved David; for he went out and came in before them.
By faith Rahab the harlot has not been put to death with those who were not uncontrolled, having taken the men of men with peace.
Then Ebed-melech, the son of Shelemiah, went out and came to the town of the town, and Abimelech and his people went up from deceit.
And David said to the king, If I have found grace in your eyes, they will give me a place in one of the towns of the field, and I will be living there, and why will your servant be living in the king's town?
And Saul said, You have been sent among the people, and you have said to them, Come near to me, every man his ox and his sheep, and let yourselves be put to death in this place, and do not sin against the Lord to take food with the blood. And let all the people take near his ox and the night and be put to death there.
So Abimelech went away from there, and went to the town of No of No, and he went round with his army.
And they will not give teaching to one another, and to his brother, saying, Have knowledge of the Lord; for all things will be clear to me from little among them.
Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, the wife of David's wife, to Palti, the son of Laish.
And they said to them, Come, let us go up against them: for we have seen the land, and it is very good: will you do nothing? do not go quickly to go in to take the land.
Then they said to him, Say sharp words, and he said, He was not able to say it right. So they took him and put him to death by the Jordan. And at that time there were forty thousand men on that day.
But he gave him a good place, for he had love for Hananiah, but the Lord shut her up.
And a man got up and went after his wife, and came to the man and said to him, Are you the man who gave birth to the woman? And he said, I am.
See now, take knowledge of all the secret places where he has gone in secret, and come back again to me, and I will go with you; and if he is in the land, I will send him out among the thousands of Judah.
And Asher was not able to take away the people of Shechem, or the people of Zidon, or the women of Achzib, or the outskirts of Achzib, or the outskirts of Debir, or of Rehob, or of Rehob.
And all the people were cutting down his branches, and went after Abimelech, and put them at the base of the strong place, and put the strong tower on them, so that all the people of Shechem had dead men and women.
Then Samuel took the bottle of oil and put it on his head and gave him a kiss and said, Is it not because the Lord has given you ruler over his heritage?
And David's men said to him, See, we are troubled here in Judah: how much more will we go to Keilah against the army of the Philistines?
And after the end of the space of the two months, she went back to her father, and he did to her as he had made an oath, and she had no knowledge of any man. And there was a design in Israel, and a law was kept.
To our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. So be it.
At the same time he gave him up to be in Ziklag, at the time of Ziklag, to this day.
And Jonathan gave an oath to David, because he had love for him, for he had love for him with the love of his soul.
And Moses was true in all his house as a servant, for a witness to what was said.
So this is what the Lord, the God of Israel, has said: I have said that your house and the house of your father may be kept in my eyes for ever. But now, says the Lord, I will not be my glory: but I will give glory to those who give glory to me; but those who make sport of me will be hated.
And at the end of the year, when she went up to the house of the Lord, her bitter feelings made her bitter: and she was crying and did not take food.
You have put under his feet all things under his feet: because he has put all things under his authority, he did not have no power under him: but now we are not looking for all things to him.
Is not the grain of grain come to this day? I will send out to the Lord, that he may send thunder and rain, and you will see and see that your evil-doing is great, which you have done in the eyes of the Lord, to make a king a king.
And he got up and said to the divisions of Israel, Why have you come out to put your war in position? am I not the Philistines and you servants of Saul? take for yourselves a man, and let him come down to me.
But you have done well with me in my troubles.
But a certain woman put a sharp stone on the head of Abimelech, and made his head unclean.
For this cause, taking a kingdom which is not overcome, let us have grace, through which we have been holy to God, with fear and fear;
And David said to the king, Do you see what your servant will do? And he said to David, See, I have given you care of all the days.
Then the Spirit of the Lord came on laughing, and went through Gilead and Manasseh, and went to Mizpah, and came to the children of Ammon.
About a month after this, the children of Ammon came and made war against the land of Jabesh-gilead: and all the men of Jabez said to him, Make a agreement with us, and we will be your servants.
But he said to me, See, you are to give birth and give birth to a son, and do not drink wine or strong drink, and do not take any unclean thing: for the child will be a Nazirite to God from the body to the day of his death.
For the Lord is living, who is salvation to Israel: for if it is in Jonathan my son, he will certainly be put to death; and no one will give him an answer from all the people.
And for this cause he is the witness of the new agreement which is by death, for the salvation of the sins which were under the first agreement, those who were named by the first agreement, to give effect to the word of eternal heritage.
So Saul and his three sons and his body-covers and all his men were that same day.
And all Israel had news, saying, Saul has overcome the army of the Philistines, and Israel has become a stench among the Philistines. So the people were crying out after Saul at Gilgal.
And the Philistines were waiting on a mountain on one side, and Israel was there on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And those who make war with the Lord will be broken, and he will send his voice against them in the heaven: the Lord will judge the ends of the earth: he will give strength to his king, and he will give glory to his king.
Then Abimelech went to the town of Ai and put up his tents against him and took it.
And they went away from the Lord, worshipping Baal and Ashtaroth.
And the men of Israel and Judah got up with a loud cry, and went after the Philistines to Gaza, and to Ekron; and the wounded of the Philistines went down by the road to Gath and to Ekron.
And Jabez went out to the town of Sisera, and said to him, Let my lord go back to me, fear not: and he went back to her into the tent, covering him with a veil.
Now when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, the Amalekites came on the south and in Ziklag; and when they came to Ziklag, they burned it with fire.
Now see, and take note of what you are to do: for evil is against our master and against all his house: for he is a good-for-nothing man, and there is no one to say to him.
And you have done mercy to your servant, for you have given your servant an agreement with you; and if there is any sin in me, put me to death; and to your father, why do you send me in?
Because of them he said, See, the days are coming, says the Lord, and I will make a new agreement with the children of Israel and the house of Judah;
And the law of the priests was with the people, when every man was offering a meal offering, when the flesh was cooked, with a bit of fish in his hand;
And the responsible men of the people said, What are we to do for the rest of the women, for the women of Benjamin have been wasted?
And the children of Israel came together out of Naphtali, and from Asher, and from all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
So the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he made them put them in flight into the hands of Shushan, king of Aram; and the children of Israel had been put to death for eight years.
But I will put up for myself a true priest, and he will do what is in my heart and in my soul; and I will make him a safe house for him, and he will go before my king for ever.
You have made him a little more than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honour.
And Saul said to the Lord, Will I go after the Philistines? will you give them up into the hands of Israel? And he gave him no answer that day.
But the Lord said to Samuel, Do not see his face or the height of his body, because I have put him to shame: for God does not see what man sees, for a man is looking on the face, but the Lord is looking on the hearts.
And he gave birth to Abimelech's wife in Shechem, who gave birth to a son for him.
And the Philistines were full of fear, for they said, God has come in to the tent-circle. And they said, It will be for us, for it has not been before this time.
Then the name of the Lord came to the Lord, and said, O Lord God, take care of me, and give me strength, O God, that I may be responsible for the destruction of the Philistines for my two eyes.
And he, named Samuel, said, My son Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
And she took him up with her when she had taken him, with three oxen, one ephah of the best meal and a skin of wine: and she took him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh while the boy was still young.
And the Lord said to him, Peace be to you; fear not; you will not be put to death.
And Saul and the people were cruel to them, and the best of the sheep and the oxen and the beasts of the second ones, and the lambs and all that was good, and did not give them to destruction; but everything that was damaged and feeble, they put to destruction.
Even as all the works which they have done from the day that I took them up from the land of Egypt till this day, they have turned away from me and have served other gods.
And questioning the Lord for him, he gave him food and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And now, in the hearing of the people, he said, Whoever is in fear and fear, let him go back and go back from the hill-country of Gilead, and let ten thousand men go back from there.
But when he got up, he went away, and his father was greatly troubled, and made him go with him.
The flames of fire have been put out of the sword, and the sword has gone out from the edge of the sword; they have been strong in war, and have made war with the sword.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of the Lord; and they gave worship to the Baals and Ashtaroth and the gods of Aram and Sidon and the gods of the children of Ammon and the Philistines; and they turned away from the Lord, and did not serve him.
Now there came an old man from his work out of the field, which was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he was living in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamin.
And he said to him, Have no fear; for Saul my father will not see you; and you will be king over Israel, and I will be with you, and my father Saul has knowledge.
For it is hard for those who have the knowledge of the glory of God, and have tasted the grace of heaven, and have become part of the Holy Spirit.
So that you may have knowledge of the good things, so that you may be true and without sin till the day of Christ.
Now the children of Israel had given a sign to them, whom they had put in flight, so that they had taken the town, they would make a fire: and by the smoke on high they might make the town clear.
So David overcame the Philistines with a stone and a stone, and overcame the Philistines and put him to death; but there was no sword in David's hands.
Give ear, O kings; give ear, O rulers: I will make a song to the Lord; I will make a song to the Lord, the God of Israel.
And they came to the mountains of Israel, and there was a company of prophets coming to him; and the spirit of the Lord came on him, and he was a prophet in the middle of them.
But today you have been turning away from your God, who gives you salvation from all your troubles and your troubles; and you have said to him, No, put a king over us. Now now, give yourselves before the Lord by your tribes and by your thousands.
And a man came to Saul, saying, Go quickly and come, because the Philistines have overcome the land.
And Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for David; and they gave news to Saul and the thing pleased him.
And now, when he says a new, he has made the old old, and what is going to get old is near the end.
To which of the angels said he in any time, You are my Son, this day have I given you birth? and again I will be to him a father, and he will be to me a Son.
And David came to the two hundred men who had been tired, and had gone after David; and they had gone out to see David, and to the people who were with him; and David came near with the people and made a request to them how they were doing.
Give honour to the daughters of Eber, the story of the Kenites: for she is honoured among women in the tent.
And Judah went up, and the Lord gave salvation to the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands; and they overcame them in the valley, ten thousand.
And when the Philistines had news, they said, What is the voice of this great cry in the tents of the Hebrews? And they saw that the ark of the Lord had come into the tent-circle.
And I took my wife, cutting her in pieces, and sent her through all the land of Israel, because they had done evil and foolish in Israel.
And Jonathan said to David, O Lord, the God of Israel, when I send my father out of this time tomorrow, the next day and see, there is good for David; and I will not send you to you, and I will not let you see it.
And the men of David said to him, See, the day of which the Lord said to you, See, I give your hater into your hands, and you have done to him as it is good in your eyes. And David got up and cut off the robe which was on Saul's robe.
And now I am glad in the Lord, so that your thoughts may be increased in the same way as you were in mind, but still you were in great numbers.
Do not let the work of ourselves be turned away, as it is in the past, but it is hard for one another; and much more as you see the day when you see the day.
You have loved righteousness, and have hated sin; so God, your God, has given you the oil of joy over your friends.
And she said, The Philistines are on you, and overcome you. And when he got up from his sleep, he said, I will go out as at once before, and I will be shaking with fear; and he did not know that the Lord had gone away from him.
And Samuel took a lamb and gave it to the Lord for a burned offering to the Lord; and Samuel was crying to the Lord for Israel, and the Lord gave him an answer.
And while Saul was talking to the priest, the fear of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said to the priest, Let your hand go back.
And on the fourth day they got up early in the morning, and he got up to go away: and the father's father said to his father-in-law, Make your heart a bit of bread, and then go your way.
But I would have knowledge of you, brothers, that the time in which I have been turned away from the good news,
And he said to them, This is what Micah did to me, and he has given me a servant, and I am his priest.
And the servants of Saul were talking in the ears of David, and David said, Is it a light in your eyes to be the son-in-law of the king, and I am a poor man, and not a man's opinion?
And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men of the houses of the house of Micah were gathered together and overtook the children of Dan.
Now when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he made war with all his haters, against Moab and against the children of Ammon and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah and against the Philistines: and wherever he turned, he put them to the worse.
And the men of Israel said to the king, Rule over us, you and your son and your son's son; for you have given us salvation from the hand of Midian.
And we saw that they were not able to go in because of their faith.
And Melchizedek, the king of Salem, the priest of the Most High God, came to Abraham from striking the kings and gave him his blessing;
For all things are looking for what is their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
And when she had made a great number of prayer before the Lord,
And he went to Ramah, and came to the great well of men, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, See, they are in Ramah.
Then the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, living in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the valley.
And the Lord said to the children of Israel, Let the people go down to the water, and I will make it unclean for you there; and he will go with you, and he will go with you; and he will go with you, and he will not go with you.
And the children of Israel went together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher and from all Manasseh, and went after the Midianites.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
And he came to Succoth and said to them, See, you have taken me out of the hands of the men of Judah, and have said, If you have given me the hands of the men of Kir-heres and of Shelah, so that we may give food to those who are tired and tired.
And he went on to Ramah, and came to the great water-spring, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, See, at Ramah.
For I have no one to do with one another, who will take care of you.
And Saul overcame Amalek, from Havilah, as you go to Shur, which is before Egypt.
Be certain, my brothers, so that there may not be any of you any longer an evil heart of faith, fearing the living God.
And of the angels he says, Who makes his angels spirits, and his servants a flame of fire.
And they said to him, Give your request to God, that we may see if our way is right.
So now let not my blood come down to the earth from before the Lord: for the king of Israel has come out to search like a bird, as when a bird puts a bird in the mountains.
And he went up from his town from time to time to give worship and peace-offerings before the Lord of armies, at Shiloh, and there were two sons of Heli, the chief of the Levites, and Phinehas, the priests.
And after that, David's heart overcame him, because he had cut off his robe.
By faith Moses, when he got up and was not the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
But now this is what we will do to Gibeah: we will go up against it by measure.
For every house is made by another, but God who made all things is God.
And the Philistines came and went near to David, and the man who had the body-covers went before him.
And Saul said, No man is to be put to death today, for today the Lord has given Israel salvation.
And he said, I am he who came from the fight, and was gone out of the field this day. And he said to him, What is there, my son?
Be certain of yourselves, that our brother Timothy is free, and with whom he comes quickly, I will see you.
Keep in mind those who have been ruled over you, who have given you the word of God, and have seen the outcome of their life, and keep their faith.
And on the side of the valley, on the side of the valley, on the side of the valley of Moreh, he and all the people who were with him went up early and put up their tents by the stream of Moreh.
The men of Sisera, looking at the window, crying out through the window, Why are his war-carriages so long in coming? why are the crushing of his war-carriages?
And see, my father, and see the skirts of your robe in my hands; for I have cut off the robe of your robe and have not put you to death, and have seen that there is no evil or evil in my hand, and I have not done wrong against you, but you are waiting for my life to take it.
And David said to him, You are to see what your servant will do. And David said to David, So I will make you keep my head for ever.
And now this is what we say: We have a high priest, seated on the right hand of the king in heaven,
And the hand of Midian overcame Israel, and the children of Israel made their holes in the mountains, and the holes and the walled places.
And David said, The Lord, who put me out of the mouth of the lion, and out of the mouth of the child, will give me salvation from the hand of the Philistines. And Saul said to David, Go, and the Lord will be with you.
And the king said, You will certainly be put to death, you and your father's house.
And Saul took a spear for him to put him to death: and Jonathan saw that his father had put David to death.
And when Saul saw David go out against the Philistines, he said to Abner, whose son is he, whose son is this child? And Abner said, As your soul is life, I am not able to say.
And they put him in the land of his heritage in Timnath-serah, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill-country of Gaash.
And the people went in flight on the goods, and took sheep and oxen and oxen and put them to death on the earth; and the people took their food with the blood.
And the land had rest for forty years; and the name of Othniel, the son of Kenaz, died.
And Joram, the son of Joash, was dead in a good old age; and he was put to death in the place of his father Joash, in the place of Jekamiah, in the place of Abital.
For forty years he was angry, with those who did evil, whose bodies were in the waste land.
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, gave themselves up in the meeting of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, who took the sword.
And all the chiefs of Israel came together, and came to the town of David to Ramah.
I will make me a holy priest, who will do what is in my heart and in my heart; and I will make him a safe place, and he will go before my selection for ever.
And when they sounded their horns in three places round about the tent-circle, they took their rods, and put their lights in their hands, and with their right hands the horns were sounding, crying out, The sword of the Lord and of the Philistines.
Now Abimelech, the son of Jerub-baal, went to Shechem to his mother's brothers, and said to them,
And the woman came and said to her husband, A man of God came to me, and his face was like the face of an angel of God, very great: but I made a request to him from where he was, and he gave me no news of his name.
But if you will still do evil, you and your king will be cut off.
And be good to you, and give grace to you, who have kept me from putting me to death this day from death and by my hand.
And the armed men came out of the army of the Philistines in three bands, and one went the way of Ophrah into the land of weeping.
And the Philistines took their tents, and put their tents in their tents, and put up their tents to Judah and put up their tents between them and Azekah.
And they put to death the ox and gave birth to the child.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the goods to the responsible men of Judah, even to his friends, saying, See, a present for you from the goods of the Lord's haters.
And the woman said, Whom am I to give you up? And he said, Give me up.
From the day the ark was in Kiriath-jearim, the days were increased, and the children of Israel were weeping after the Lord.
For this time I will send you a man from the land of Benjamin, and put oil on him over my people Israel; and he will keep my people safe from the Philistines: for I have seen my people, for their cry has come to me.
And he went away from them and took away from them, and made their living-place in the land of Samaria; and the poor and the violent came together to him, and they went after him as their ruler.
And the angel of the Lord came up from Gilgal to the prophet, saying, I have taken you out of the land of Egypt, and have taken you into the land which I made an oath to your fathers, saying, I will not break my agreement with you.
But the evil men said, Will this man be able to give us salvation? and they put him to shame, and did not give him anything; but he was deceit as though he had not given ear.
And they put up their tents against them, causing destruction on the earth, till you come to Gaza, without food for Israel or sheep or ox or ass.
And he was talking with them, and there was a man of records, whose name was Goliath, the name of the Philistines, from Gath, out of the band of the Philistines, and he gave orders to them, and David gave ear.
And you have turned away from me, and have worship other gods, and I will not give you salvation.
Then Saul said to his servants, Take your sword, and put me to death; for these uncircumcised men do not come and put me to death and make sport of me. And his war-men did not come, for he was overcome with fear. Then Saul took his sword and put down on it.
And now they came near the Jebusites, and the day was far away. And the servant said to his master, Come, let us go to the town of the Jebusite, and let us be there.
And Saul said to his servant, But if we go, what is we to give the man? for the bread is gone in our bags, and there is no present for the man of God. What do we have?
And he said, This will be the way of the king who will rule over you: he will take your sons and put them in position for himself, for his war-carriages and for his horsemen; and some will go running before his war-carriages.
From the day when the ark was in Kiriath-jearim, the time was long; for it was about twenty years; and all the children of Israel were weeping after the Lord.
And after him was Shammah, the son of Shimei, who put to death over the Philistines, six hundred men with a vine-garden, and he gave up to Israel.
And there was no need for them, small or great, no sons or daughters or goods or anything which they had taken to them: David took back all.
So David went out to the place where Saul had sent him; and he was wise and took him over the men of war, and it was good in the eyes of all the people, and in the eyes of Saul's servants.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, The son of Ahimelech, the son of Ahimelech, come near to me, and Abiathar took the ephod near to David.
So that we may say, May the Lord be my helper, and I will not be afraid of what man will do to me.
And she said to her young men, Go over before me; for I am coming, and her husband was the widow of the widow.
And when she had news of the noise of the weeping, he said, What is the noise of this trouble? And the man came in quickly and gave a word to him.
So that even from the dead God is able to get up from the dead, from which he has been given to him.
So he took them before the king of Moab, and they were with him all the days of David in the high place.
And the king said to the armed men who were waiting for him, Go and put to death the priests of the Lord, because their hand is with David, and because they had knowledge that he was running away, and did not make it clear to me: but the servants of the king would not put their hand on the priests of the Lord.
And the son of Micaiah said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we may serve him? is it not he, the son of Jerub-baal? Is not the captain of the family of Hamor, the father of Shechem? why should we serve him?
By your hands God gave up the chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do with you? Then their spirit was turned to him, when he said that word.
And they sent ten thousand of the best men, and gave them orders, saying, Go and put the people of Jabesh-gilead to the sword, with their wives and their children.
And to whom Abraham gave a division of the tenth part of all: the first by the sense of it is king; and then the king of Salem, who is the king of peace.
Then Saul said, Come here, all you rulers of the people, so that we may see the sin of this day.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have done wrong; do you to us whatever seems good to you: only give us salvation, today.
And Jonathan sent for the young man, saying, Go quickly, do not get up. And Jonathan took the arrows and came to his master.
And David said, I am certain that you are good in my eyes, as an angel of God: but the chiefs of the Philistines have said, He will not go up with us to the fight.
And they gave mercy to the house of Rameses, as the Lord had done for Israel.
And Shammah, the son of David, took the two pillars on which the house was, and on which it was taken up, one with his right hand and the other with his left.
And make a special promise to the Lord, saying, If you do not give the children of Ammon into my hands,
And Jonathan overcame the army of the Philistines in Gibeah. And when the Philistines had news of it, Saul sounded the horn over all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews give ear.
And the servant said to Saul, See, I have in my hand a measure of silver, and I will give it to the man of God, and he will say to us our way.
Those in Hebron and all the places where David and his men were numbered.
And at her feet he was bent down, and falling down, he was put to death; and at her feet he went down, and falling down there came to his face.
And he said, You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest and you are gone; and what have I more? and what is this that you say to me, What is your trouble?
And now, take care that you may not drink wine or drink wine, and do not take any unclean thing.
And he, because of his rest, has not been a priest for ever.
And you are not turned away from the foolish things which have no profit or give up; for they are false.
Having discussions that God was able to give him up from the dead, from which he took him back as a sign.
Keep in mind those who are in chains, as if you were chained with them; and those who are working together as you are in the body.
And when Samuel had said all the words of the Lord to the people,
For there will be no one in need of those who are dead, because it is not in force when the man who made the will is life.
And a man of Benjamin went out from the army, and came to him at Shiloh the same day with his robe, and with earth on his head.
See, this day your eyes have seen how the Lord has given you this day into my hand in the hole, and some sent for me to put you to death; but I said, I will not put my hand on my lord, for he is the king of the Lord.
And now, call in the ears of the people, saying, Whoever is in fear and in fear, let him go back and go early from the hill-country of Gilead: and let twenty thousand and ten thousand go from there.
Because it is better to be put to shame with the people of God, than to have sin for a time,
And David went over to the other side and took his place on the top of the hill, a great place between them.
And Saul was living at the end of the town of Gibeah, under the net of Migron, and the men with him were about six hundred men.
And when he came to the Jordan, he and the three hundred men who were with him were feeble and went after them.
And he said to her, Get up, and let us go. But as she had no answer when she saw that she was dead, he took her up and put her on his ass, and went back to his house.
The man of yours, whom I have not cut off from my altar, will give food to your eyes and sorrow to your heart; and all the increase of your house will be put to death in the flower of their days.
So now go back and go in peace, that you may not be angry in your evil ways.
Do not let your fear be turned away, for you have a great reward for a reward.
Not that I say to myself, that I have knowledge of myself in those things which I am, to be full in myself.
And the children of Dan went away: and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he went back to his house.
For your seat will be wasted till the morning; and you are to go down quickly and come to the place where you are to be kept safe on the day when it is right to do work; and you will be to rest by the stone which is cut off.
And this will we do, if God lets us go.
But he made an oath by him who said to him, The Lord has made an oath and will not change his mind, you are a priest for ever.
And he said to the men of Succoth, Give me bread of bread to the people who go after me, for they are feeble: I have gone after Zebah and Zalmunna, O kings of Midian.
Then the Lord came up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, Has David not put himself in position with us in the wood of the wood, in the hill-country of the valley of the waste land?
And on the morning the people got up early and made an altar there and offered up burned offerings and peace-offerings.
And when he came, he was seated on a seat over the way; for his heart was full of fear for the ark of God. And when the man came into the town, he gave it word, and all the town was crying out.
And now, give a word to the people, saying, Whoever is in fear and in fear, let him go back and go away from the hill-country of Gilead. And about twenty-two thousand men went back, and ten thousand were kept.
Only the good news of the good news of the Christ, that if you come and see you, I may give hearing of the things about you, so that you may be kept in one spirit, with one soul, and the faith of the good news.
And the day came, and Elkanah gave an offering and gave to destruction his wife and all her sons and daughters,
And they went away to see Israel, to see if they would give ear to the orders of the Lord, which he gave to their fathers by Moses.
So Jonathan made a agreement with the house of David, saying, Let the Lord take note of it at the hand of David's haters.
So Samuel went down till the morning, opening the doors of the house of the Lord; but Samuel was overcome with fear.
And Saul said, There is no man put to death on this day; for today the Lord has done salvation in Israel.
And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, Why are you weeping? why do you not have food? Why is your heart sad? am I not better to you than ten sons?
And the men of the army said to Jonathan and his bowmen, Come up to us, and we will give you a thing. And Jonathan said to his men, Come up after me, for the Lord has given them over to Israel.
And from year to year he went to Beth-el, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and to Israel in all those places.
And they put the ark of the Lord on the cart, and the twisted linen and the images of gold and the images.
And the father of Saul said to him and to his servant, Where did you go? And he said, To search for the asses; and when we saw that they had not been seen, we came to Samuel.
And when the son of Eliab, his oldest brother, had news of this, he was angry with David, and said, Why have you gone here? Why have you gone out from the land of the land? I have knowledge of your pride and the evil of your heart, and you are come down to see the war.
And the men of Judah said, Why have you come up against us? And they said, To take up the son of Jonathan, to do to him as he has done to us.
And the angel of the Lord came up from Gilgal to the prophet, saying, I have made you go up out of the land of Egypt, and have taken you to the land which I made an oath to your fathers: and I said, I will not keep my agreement with you, and as for you,
And Saul was in fear of David, and Saul became king over David all the time.
But David said to them, You are not to do so, my brothers, with what the Lord has given us; he has kept us safe, and has given the bands of the armed band against us.
And when Saul and all Israel had news of the words of the Philistines, they were troubled and full of fear.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and put it in the house of Dagon, and put it in the house of Dagon.
He has said in the new Writings, he has made the first old, but the old and the old are ended.
And when they got up early in the morning, Samuel sent to Saul on the roof, saying, Get up, and I will send you away. And Saul got up, and they went outside, he and Samuel.
And I am certain in the Lord that I myself will come quickly.
And he said to her, What is his image? And she said, A certain man is coming up, and he is covered with a robe. And Saul saw that he was the one who was Samuel and gave worship to you.
Happy is your wisdom, and happy is you, who have kept me to this day from blood, and from the blood of my hand.
But I have faith in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy quickly to you, so that I may be of good comfort when I have knowledge of you.
And the children of Israel turned back again on the children of Benjamin, and overcame them with the edge of the sword, as well as the beast and the beast and all who came to him; and they put fire on all the towns they came to.
And Jonathan said good of David to Saul his father, and said to him, Do not let the king sin against his servant, against David, because he has not done evil against you, and because of his works.
And God had given ear to the voice of Adam; and the angel of God came back to the woman as she was seated in the field, but her husband was not with her.
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you troubled me, to give me up? And Saul said, I am greatly troubled: for the Philistines are fighting against me, and God has gone away from me, and I say no more, or of the prophets or of dreams. So I have given you a name, so that you may make clear to me what I will do.
For still a very little one, he who is coming will come, and will not be waiting.
For about those who were once full of the knowledge of the grace of God, and of the Holy Spirit,
And Elkanah went to Ramah; and the child was before the Lord before the eyes of the priest,
And the people of Beth-el came and took their seats there till evening before God; and they lifted up their voices and were weeping bitterly.
So that God may give more to the haters of David, if I go from the morning to give light to anyone.
These are the things which Moses gave orders to make the House and the shade of the shade of the lights of heaven: for see, says he, that you make all things after you in the mountain.
And Saul took for himself three thousand men of Israel, and there were two thousand men with Saul in Michmash, in the hill country of Beth-el, and one thousand, with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin; and he sent the rest of the people to their tents.
And the wife of Jonathan, the wife of his friend, was to be his friend.
And the people came to Beth-el, and they were seated there till evening before God; and they lifted up their voice and weeping with weeping.
And Samuel sent to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain on that day; and all the people were greatly afraid of the Lord and Samuel.
And they took their daughters to their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and they served their gods.
And they said, See, there is a feast of the Lord from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the road which goes up from Beth-el to Shechem and on the south.
For by one offering he has made complete for ever those who are made holy.
And the wrath of the Lord was burning against Israel, and he gave him into the hands of the Philistines and the children of Ammon.
And Jonathan gave answer to Saul, saying, David gave me a request to Beth-lehem.
And Adam said to the angel of the Lord, What is your name? when your words come to pass, then we will be honoured.
And David put his hand in his bag, and took away from there a stone and stretched it out, and overcame the Philistines in his brow, and the stone went down on his brow, and he went on his face to the earth.
And when he saw her, he tore his robes and said, Ah, my daughter! you have taken me very low, and you are one of those who have trouble on me; for I have given my mouth to the Lord, and I am not able to go back.
And Saul said, Let us go down with the Philistines by night, and let us take their goods till the morning light, and let us not go away from one of them. And they said, Do whatever is good in your eyes. Then the priest said, Let us come near here to God.
So Michal let David down through the window, and he went in flight and got away.
And Michal, Saul's daughter, had love for David; and they gave news to Saul and the thing pleased him.
And Saul said to Samuel, Because I have done wrong, because I have broken the word of the Lord and your words, fearing the people and giving ear to their voice.
And he said to her, What is he looking like? She said, An old man is coming up, covered with a robe. And he saw that it was named Samuel, and falling on his face to the earth, he was honoured.
And Samuel gave orders to the people all the words of the Lord.
And Saul said, I have done wrong; come back, O David my son, for I will not give you trouble, because my life is great in your eyes this day: see, I have done as a foolish man and have made a bad thing.
And when you come into the town, you will see him, before he goes up to the high place to take food: for the people will not take food till he comes, because he is to give his blessing, and then the guests will have food: then go up, because you will see him today.
And his death was Abdon, the son of Dodai, the Pirathonite, in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And he was with the family of Micah, and they had knowledge of the voice of the young man, the Levite, and said to him, Who has brought you here? and what are you doing in this place? and what are you to you?
But the hair of his head was to come up till he was cut off.
O Lord, when you went out of Seir, and went through the countries of Edom, the earth was shaking, and the heaven dropped water.
And when she came, she got him to ask her father for a field, and she got down from her ass, and Caleb said to her, What would you do?
And he went to death and was put to death in the land of Ephraim, in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
For the law is given to the chief priests, having a disease, but the word of the oath which is in the law, when the Son has been made complete.
Be awake, O woman of grief! awake, awake, and give up a song; get up and take away your prisoners, you son of Abinadab.
And the men who were with him came to the end of the tent-circle in the middle of the middle of the tent-circle, when they had been marked out, and the horns were broken, and the vessels were broken in pieces.
For to which of the angels he said, You are my son, today I have given you birth; and I will be his father, and he will be my son.
For this will we do, if God may give it.
And from there came out of the family of Dan, Zorah and Eshtaol, six hundred men armed with war.
And by faith Joseph gave thought to the children of Israel, and gave orders about his bones.
And the old man went out to them and said, Do not so, my brothers, do not do wrong to me: for this man has come into my house, and I will put an end to you from this foolish way.
And he said, I have done wrong: now give me honour before the chiefs of my people and Israel, and let me go back to the Lord your God.
And early day they got up early on the day of Ashdod, and they saw their faces of Dagon before the ark of the Lord; and they took their place of Dagon and put him in his place again.
And the children of Israel went up to weeping before the Lord till they had said, Will I go up to fight against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the Lord said, Go up against him.
And the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they gave answer, the son of Shimeah, the son of Shimeah, because he took his wife and gave her to his friend. And the Philistines came up and burned her and her father with fire.
And the children of Israel said to the Lord, We have done wrong; do to us what is right; only give us salvation this day.
And Japhlet came together together all the men of Gilead, and made war with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead overcame Ephraim, because they said, You are living in Gilead, in Ephraim, in the middle of Manasseh.
And she said to Shammah, You have made sport of me, and said to me, Say to me, I will make a request to you that you may be put to shame.
So that in every way, or in the knowledge or in the true faith, Christ is said, and in this I have joy; but I will be glad.
And Joram, the son of Joash, was dead in a good old age; and he was put to death in the resting-place of his father Jehoash, in the place of the old, named Jekamiah.
And there was a man of Zorah, of the family of the children of Dan, who was named by name, and his wife was unable to give birth.
And having come to life again, to make them a new change of heart, because they have been put to death again for themselves, the Son of God, and gave him up to shame.
And Saul said to David, See, my older daughter Michal is to give you your wife; only be strong for me and fight against the Lord. For Saul said, Let not my hands be on him, but let the Philistines be on him.
But of which of the angels he said at any time, Sit on my right hand, till I make your haters the footstool of your feet?
And David said to Ahimelech, Is there not under your hand a spear or a sword? for I have not put my sword or my instruments with me, for the king's business was hard.
And he said to his young man, Come, let us go to one of the places, and let us have the night in Gibeah or in Ramah.
And when you come into the town, you will see him, before he goes up to the high place to take food: for the people do not take food till he comes, because he has given his blessing: and now go up; for this day will you find him.
And they said, We will give them their desire, and they will put a robe on them and put them in the rings of his food.
For this man was a greater glory than Moses, so much greater than the house is greater than the house.
And they said to one another, Who has done this thing? And when they were questioning him, they said, The son of Joash has done this thing.
And Moses was true in all his house as a servant, for a witness of those things which came later to be said,
And the hand of the children of Israel was stronger and more than Jabin, king of Canaan, till they had destroyed Jabin, king of Canaan.
And Jesse took an ass with bread, and a bottle of wine and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
And they went before the men of Israel in the direction of the waste land; but the war overtook them; and those who came out of the towns made them waste among them.
And after him, the mountain of the children of Zebulun came to Israel for ten years.
But if I am living in the flesh, this will give fruit from my work; but I do not see what I will take.
And Saul said to Samuel, Yes, I have given ear to the voice of the Lord, and have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and have overcome Amalek and overcame Amalek.
And the woman came as the morning came, and falling at the door of the man's house till the light.
And happy be your wisdom, and happy be you, who have kept me this day from coming with blood, and from the blood of my hand.
So let us take note of this; and if you make a division of anything, God will make it clear to you.
And Saul was attempting to take care of David to the wall with the spear; but he went away from Saul's face, and took his spear into the wall; and David went in flight that night.
And Saul saw that he was well well, and fear of him.
Who, when they had knowledge of it, were not sinners? was it not all who went out of Egypt through Moses?
Whose end is destruction, whose God is their heart, and whose glory is in their shame, and whose heart is of the earth.
Now go and take away Amalek, and take away all that it has, and you will have no pity on it, and be put to death from man to woman, from the seed to the child, from ox to sheep, and from camel to ass.
And after seven days, after the fixed time of Samuel, he did not come to Gilgal; and the people were wandering from him.
By faith, Joseph, when his end was near, said the children of Israel, and gave orders about his bones.
And the king sent for Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, and all the family of his father, the priests at Nob, and they came all of them to the king.
Now one day Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man who had his arms, Come and let us go over to the tents of the Philistines, which is on the other side of the land. But he did not say this to his father.
Is it not the grain of grain on the grain-grain? I cry to the Lord, and he will give the rain and the rain; and you will see that your evil is great, which you have done in the eyes of the Lord, to make a request for you a king.
And Samuel said to Saul, I am the seer; go up before me to the high place, and you will take food with me today, and tomorrow I will let you go and say to you everything in your hearts.
And the dead man was dead and was put to death in Beth-lehem.
For for six years Israel was judged for six years; and in the land of the children of Gilead, she was put to death in the land of Gilead.
And you, O Lord, have put the earth on the earth, and the heavens are the works of your hands:
And he had thirty sons, seated on thirty asses; and they had thirty towns, which are named Towns of Jair, to this day in the land of Gilead.
And the Spirit of the Lord will have power over you, and you will have knowledge of them and have been turned to another man.
But make a request to one another day by day, so long as it is given to this day, so that any one of you may be made hard by the deceit of sin.
And his father and his mother said to him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of your brothers or of all my people, that you go to take a wife of the Philistines? And the son said to his father, Get her for me, for she is pleased with me.
So Samuel took all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Jonathan said, See, we are going over to the men, and we are made clear to them.
But from all the towns of their heritage they came together to the town of Geba, helping them and making war against all Israel.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have said these things again.
And the children of Israel were crying out to the Lord, and the Lord gave up a saviour to the children of Israel, and he gave them over to Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And he went to Ramah in Ramah, and the Spirit of God came on him, and he went on and said to the prophet,
Now the ark of God was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And when the men of Israel were turned back in the war, Benjamin came to the sword, killing the men of Israel about thirty men: for they said, Truly they are overcome before us as in the first army.
And Micah said to him, Stay with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten shekels of silver a year, and a robe and your food. And the Levite went with him.
And the men of the army said to Jonathan, and to his armor, Come up to us, and let us see you. And Jonathan said, Come up after me, for the Lord has given them into the hands of Israel.
Will I take my bread and my water and my flesh, which I have put to death for my wool, and give it to men, whom I do not see where they are?
And David and Abishai came to the people by night, and he saw Saul sleeping in the road, and his spear was on the earth at his head, and his spear and the people were round about him.
Then David came to a quiet cry to Abimelech the priest, and said, Why are you, and no one with you?
And when you come to the mountain of God, where the army of the Philistines is; and when you come there to the town, you will see a band of prophets coming down from the high place with corded instruments and instruments and pipe and corded instruments before them, and they will be able to say.
There is an image for the present time, for the offering and for the offerings, and not to be able to make it clear, as to the man of worship, to give worship to him.
And all the army of Midian went up early, and all the army with him; and they put up their tents by the stream of Moreh, on the north of Moreh.
And the Lord, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hands of Israel, and they overcame them; and Israel took all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land.
And Saul was very angry, and it was evil to him, and he said, They have put an end to David's ten thousands, and to me have they made a number of thousands. What is he able to have more than the kingdom?
And Samuel said to Saul, Why have you troubled me, to give me up? And Saul said, I am greatly troubled: for the Philistines have made war against me, and God has gone away from me, and has no answer for me or by the prophets or by dreams. So I have given you orders to make clear to me what I will do.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And Deborah, the son of Abinadab, was on that day, saying,
And it came to pass in those days, when the Philistines came together with their armies to fight against Israel, and said to David, Be certain for certain, you and your men will go out with me.
For when you are to be teachers, you need to be teachers of the first teaching of the first law of God, and have need of milk and not of solid food.
And taking it in his hands, he went on eating and came to his father and mother, and gave them food; but he gave them no food that he had taken the honey from the dead body of the lion.
And the Lord came and took his place, and gave his name to Samuel, Samuel, and said, Give ear, for your servant is hearing.
And Abigail went up and went on the ass, and five of her servants who were waiting for her; and she went after the men of David and became his wife.
Of whom we have many things to say, and have a hard sense, seeing that you are not hearing.
The Lord gave a name to Samuel; and he said, Here am I.
And every high priest is to be offered for the offering and the meal offering; and from where it is needed, he may have something to do.
For he did not give orders to the angels in the world to come, about which we say.
And he sent representatives to Abimelech, saying, See, the son of Amasa, and his brothers, have come to Shechem; and see, they make the town come against you.
And all that generation came to their fathers, and another generation came after them, who had no knowledge of the Lord or what he had done for Israel.
And Elkanah, her husband, and all his house went up to give an offering to the Lord, the regular burned offering and the oath.
Let the power of the fire be put out of the sword, and go out of the sword, and be strong in fear, and be strong in war, making war with strange men.
And the house of Joseph sent to Beth-el, where the town was named Luz.
For if the word has been given through angels, there is faith, and every sin and wrongdoing have been given for a reward.
And when the people saw the people, he said to the Kenites, See, people come down from the top of the mountains: and the man said to him, You see the shade of the mountains as if they were men.
And he said to the men of Peniel, When I come again in peace, I will be broken down.
For we have come into the rest, we who have faith, as he said, So I made an oath in my wrath, if they come into my rest; and still the works were done from the base of the world.
And you, O Lord, in the first, put the earth on the earth: the heavens are the works of your hands.
And he gave them back to his mother; and she took two hundred pieces of silver and gave them to the silversmith, to make for them a pictured image and a metal image in the house of Michmas.
And she said, I am requesting you, my lord, as you are, my lord: I am the woman who was waiting before you in prayer to the Lord.
Now let not my blood come down to the earth before the Lord: for the king of Israel has come out to search for a bird, as when a bird puts a bird in the mountains.
So David and his men got up, about six hundred men, and went away from Keilah, going out to the place where they were able to go; and when Saul had come to him from Keilah, he went back from his way.
And Saul came near to Samuel in the middle of the doorway, and said, Give me the answer where the king's house is.
And it came to pass, when God was on Saul, that David had taken the harp and was with his hands, and Saul had joy and joy, and the spirit of grief was turned away from him.
And she said to her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone for two months, so that I may go up and down on the mountains, weeping for my virgin, I and my friends.
And Samuel was not able to see Saul till the day of his death; and Samuel was sorrowing for Saul, and the Lord was changing his mind that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And when Samuel was offering the burned offering, the Philistines came near to fight against Israel: and the Lord sent thunder on that day on the Philistines and troubled them, and they were overcome before Israel.
And to those who were in the towns of the family of Jerahmeel, and to those in the towns of the Kenites,
The rest of the people is salvation; the Lord is fighting among the strong ones.
And she was deeply troubled, and she made prayer to the Lord and weeping bitterly.
And Saul saw the oxen coming out of the field, and said, What is the trouble of the people weeping? And they gave him the words of the men of Jabesh-gilead.
And they went round about the children of Benjamin round about, driving them in flight, driving them down at Gibeah on the east.
Now Saul had come back from following the Philistines, saying, See, David is in the waste land of En-gedi.
And Saul made an oath to her by the Lord, saying, The Lord is living; there will be no punishment for you for this.
And Saul said, Make a decision between me and Jonathan my son; and Jonathan was taken.
And eighteen thousand men from Benjamin came down, all able men.
And she said, May God your servant may have grace in your eyes. So the woman went on her way and gave her food, and her face was not changed.
And he saw a sharp ass of a ass, stretching out his hand and took it, and overcame a thousand.
Then his wife's wife was weeping before him, and said, You have hated me, and have no love for me; you have given thought to the children of my people, and have not given it to me. And he said to her, See, I have not said to my father or to my mother, Why am I to say to you?
And the sons of Benjamin said, They are overcome before us as before. And the children of Israel said, Let us go in flight and take them away from the town into the highway.
So we were to give the more care to the things which were given to us, so that we might not go away from them.
And Cush and Puah and Samuel and Samuel gave you out of the hand of your haters on every side, and you were living in peace.
So then, O king, when you desire to come down, come down, and let us give him into the hands of the king.
And when David had said these words to Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice and cried.
And David was living in the land of the Philistines for a full year and for four months.
And he was in need of water; and he sent to the Lord and said, You gave this great salvation into the hands of your servant; but now I will be put to death, and I will be put to death in the hands of the uncircumcised.
And the angel of the Lord came up from Gilgal to the prophet, saying, I have made you go up out of Egypt, and have taken you into the land which I made an oath to your fathers: and I said, I will not break my agreement with you.
For by one offering he has made complete to the end those who are made holy.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had made a attack on the south and in Ziklag and put down on Ziklag and burned it with fire;
And the angel of the Lord put out the stick which was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there went up fire out of the rock and burned the flesh and the unleavened cakes: and the angel of the Lord went out from his eyes.
For the law has made men the high priests, having no disease; but the word of the oath, which was after the law, gives effect to a son, made complete for ever.
And after him was Abdon, the son of Zerah, the Pirathonite, who was responsible for Israel.
And Jesse took an ass with bread, and a bottle of wine and a young goat, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
Now the Lord had said what the Lord had said, and came to Beth-lehem; and the responsible men of the town were shaking with fear, and said, Is your peace?
There is a bride in honour, and the bed is free: for God is a sinner and a sinner.
And all the men of Israel said to him, Rule over us and your son and your son's son, because you have given us salvation from the hand of Midian.
And Memucan went out in the way, shutting the doors of the room on him, and shut it.
And the Spirit of the Lord came on him, and he was judging Israel, and he went out to war; and the Lord gave trouble to the people of Cushan, driving out the king of Aram, and overcame the Ethiopians.
Having the same argument which you saw in me, and now you give ear to me.
And when he came to the Jordan, he and the three hundred men who were with him got tired and went after them.
And twenty-three years he gave punishment to Israel; and he went to death and was put to death in the earth.
Then David got up and came to the place where Saul had put up his tents; and David saw the place where Saul was resting, and Abner, the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul was put in the wall, and the people put up their tents round about him.
In those days there is no king in Israel; every man is right in his own eyes.
