1 And concerning the spiritual things, brethren, I do not wish you to be ignorant;
2 ye have known that ye were nations, unto the dumb idols -- as ye were led -- being carried away;
3 wherefore, I give you to understand that no one, in the Spirit of God speaking, saith Jesus  anathema, and no one is able to say Jesus  Lord, except in the Holy Spirit.
4 And there are diversities of gifts, and the same Spirit;
5 and there are diversities of ministrations, and the same Lord;
6 and there are diversities of workings, and it is the same God -- who is working the all in all.
7 And to each hath been given the manifestation of the Spirit for profit;
8 for to one through the Spirit hath been given a word of wisdom, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;
9 and to another faith in the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healings in the same Spirit;
10 and to another in-workings of mighty deeds; and to another prophecy; and to another discernings of spirits; and to another  kinds of tongues; and to another interpretation of tongues:
11 and all these doth work the one and the same Spirit, dividing to each severally as he intendeth.
12 For, even as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of the one body, being many, are one body, so also  the Christ,
13 for also in one Spirit we all to one body were baptized, whether Jews or Greeks, whether servants or freemen, and all into one Spirit were made to drink,
14 for also the body is not one member, but many;
15 if the foot may say, `Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body;' it is not, because of this, not of the body;
16 and if the ear may say, `Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body;' it is not, because of this, not of the body?
17 If the whole body  an eye, where the hearing? if the whole hearing, where the smelling?
18 and now, God did set the members each one of them in the body, according as He willed,
19 and if all were one member, where the body?
20 and now, indeed,  many members, and one body;
21 and an eye is not able to say to the hand, `I have no need of thee;' nor again the head to the feet, `I have no need of you.'
22 But much more the members of the body which seem to be more infirm are necessary,
23 and those that we think to be less honourable of the body, around these we put more abundant honour, and our unseemly things have seemliness more abundant,
24 and our seemly things have no need; but God did temper the body together, to the lacking part having given more abundant honour,
25 that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same anxiety for one another,
26 and whether one member doth suffer, suffer with  do all the members, or one member is glorified, rejoice with  do all the members;
27 and ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.
28 And some, indeed, did God set in the assembly, first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, afterwards powers, afterwards gifts of healings, helpings, governings, divers kinds of tongues;
29  all apostles?  all prophets?  all teachers?  all powers?
30 have all gifts of healings? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?
31 and desire earnestly the better gifts; and yet a far excelling way do I shew to you: