1 Followers of me become ye, as I also  of Christ.
2 And I praise you, brethren, that in all things ye remember me, and according as I did deliver to you, the deliverances ye keep,
3 and I wish you to know that of every man the head is the Christ, and the head of a woman is the husband, and the head of Christ is God.
4 Every man praying or prophesying, having the head covered, doth dishonour his head,
5 and every woman praying or prophesying with the head uncovered, doth dishonour her own head, for it is one and the same thing with her being shaven,
6 for if a woman is not covered -- then let her be shorn, and if [it is] a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven -- let her be covered;
7 for a man, indeed, ought not to cover the head, being the image and glory of God, and a woman is the glory of a man,
8 for a man is not of a woman, but a woman  of a man,
9 for a man also was not created because of the woman, but a woman because of the man;
10 because of this the woman ought to have [a token of] authority upon the head, because of the messengers;
11 but neither  a man apart from a woman, nor a woman apart from a man, in the Lord,
12 for as the woman  of the man, so also the man  through the woman, and the all things  of God.
13 In your own selves judge ye; is it seemly for a woman uncovered to pray to God?
14 doth not even nature itself teach you, that if a man indeed have long hair, a dishonour it is to him?
15 and a woman, if she have long hair, a glory it is to her, because the hair instead of a covering hath been given to her;
16 and if any one doth think to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the assemblies of God.
17 And this declaring, I give no praise, because not for the better, but for the worse ye come together;
18 for first, indeed, ye coming together in an assembly, I hear of divisions being among you, and partly I believe ,
19 for it behoveth sects also to be among you, that those approved may become manifest among you;
20 ye, then, coming together at the same place -- it is not to eat the Lord's supper;
21 for each his own supper doth take before in the eating, and one is hungry, and another is drunk;
22 why, have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or the assembly of God do ye despise, and shame those not having? what may I say to you? shall I praise you in this? I do not praise!
23 For I -- I received from the Lord that which also I did deliver to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was delivered up, took bread,
24 and having given thanks, he brake, and said, `Take ye, eat ye, this is my body, that for you is being broken; this do ye -- to the remembrance of me.'
25 In like manner also the cup after the supping, saying, `This cup is the new covenant in my blood; this do ye, as often as ye may drink  -- to the remembrance of me;'
26 for as often as ye may eat this bread, and this cup may drink, the death of the Lord ye do shew forth -- till he may come;
27 so that whoever may eat this bread or may drink the cup of the Lord unworthily, guilty he shall be of the body and blood of the Lord:
28 and let a man be proving himself, and so of the bread let him eat, and of the cup let him drink;
29 for he who is eating and drinking unworthily, judgment to himself he doth eat and drink -- not discerning the body of the Lord.
30 Because of this, among you many  weak and sickly, and sleep do many;
31 for if ourselves we were discerning, we would not be being judged,
32 and being judged by the Lord, we are chastened, that with the world we may not be condemned;
33 so then, my brethren, coming together to eat, for one another wait ye;
34 and if any one is hungry, at home let him eat, that to judgment ye may not come together; and the rest, whenever I may come, I shall arrange.