1 And he cried in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Draw near, ye that have charge of the city, and every man  his destroying weapon in his hand.
2 And behold, six men came from the way of the upper gate, which is turned toward the north, and every man  his slaughter weapon in his hand; and in the midst of them, one man clothed with linen, with a writer's ink-horn by his side; and they went in, and stood beside the brazen altar.
3 And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cherub, whereupon it was, to the threshold of the house; and he called to the man clothed with linen, who had the writer's ink-horn by his side;
4 and Jehovah said unto him, Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry for all the abominations that are done in the midst thereof.
5 And to the others he said in my hearing, Go after him through the city, and smite: let not your eye spare, neither have pity.
6 Slay utterly the old man, the young man, and the maiden, and little children, and women; but come not near any man upon whom is the mark; and begin at my sanctuary. Then they began at the elders who were before the house.
7 And he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain: go forth. And they went forth, and smote in the city.
8 And it came to pass, while they were smiting, and I was left, that I fell upon my face, and cried, and said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! wilt thou destroy all the remnant of Israel in thy pouring out of thy fury upon Jerusalem?
9 And he said unto me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceeding great, and the land is full of blood, and the city full of perverseness; for they say, Jehovah hath forsaken the earth, and Jehovah seeth not.
10 And as for me also, mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will recompense their way upon their head.
11 And behold, the man clothed with linen, who had the ink-horn by his side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as thou hast commanded me.