1 And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
2 Son of man, say unto the prince of Tyre, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thy heart is lifted up, and thou hast said, I am a god, I sit  the seat of God, in the heart of the seas, (and thou art a man, and not God,) and thou settest thy heart as the heart of God:
3 behold, thou art wiser than Daniel! nothing secret is obscure for thee;
4 by thy wisdom and by thine understanding thou hast gotten thee riches, and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures;
5 by thy great wisdom thou hast by thy traffic increased thy riches, and thy heart is lifted up because of thy riches.
6 Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thou hast set thy heart as the heart of God,
7 therefore behold, I will bring strangers upon thee, the terrible of the nations; and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall tarnish thy brightness.
8 They shall bring thee down to the pit, and thou shalt die the deaths of those that are slain in the heart of the seas.
9 Wilt thou then say before him that slayeth thee, I am God? but thou shalt be a man, and not God, in the hand of him that pierceth thee.
10 Thou shalt die the deaths of the uncircumcised, by the hand of strangers: for I have spoken , saith the Lord Jehovah.
11 And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
12 Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyre, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Thou, who sealest up the measure of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty,
13 thou wast in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was thy covering: the sardius, the topaz, and the diamond, the chrysolite, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the carbuncle, and the emerald, and gold. The workmanship of thy tambours and of thy pipes was in thee: in the day that thou wast created were they prepared.
14 Thou wast the anointed covering cherub, and I had set thee : thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou didst walk up and down in the midst of stones of fire.
15 Thou wast perfect in thy ways, from the day that thou wast created, till unrighteousness was found in thee.
16 By the abundance of thy traffic they filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned; therefore have I cast thee as profane from the mountain of God, and have destroyed thee, O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
17 Thy heart was lifted up because of thy beauty; thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness: I have cast thee to the ground, I have laid thee before kings, that they may behold thee.
18 By the multitude of thine iniquities, by the unrighteousness of thy traffic, thou hast profaned thy sanctuaries: and I have brought forth a fire out of the midst of thee—it hath consumed thee; and I have brought thee to ashes upon the earth, in the sight of all them that behold thee.
19 All they that know thee among the peoples shall be amazed at thee: thou art become a terror, and thou shalt never be any more.
20 And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying,
21 Son of man, set thy face towards Zidon, and prophesy against it,
22 and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, Zidon, and I will be glorified in the midst of thee; and they shall know that I  Jehovah, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be hallowed in her.
23 And I will send into her the pestilence, and blood in her streets; and the wounded shall fall in the midst of her, by the sword upon her on every side: and they shall know that I  Jehovah.
24 And there shall be no more a wounding sting for the house of Israel, nor any grieving thorn, among all that were round about them, that despised them: and they shall know that I  the Lord Jehovah.
25 Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: When I shall have gathered the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and shall be hallowed in them in the sight of the nations, then shall they dwell in their land which I have given to my servant Jacob.
26 They shall dwell in it in safety, and shall build houses and plant vineyards; and they shall dwell in safety, when I have executed judgments upon all those that despised them round about them: and they shall know that I  Jehovah their God.