1 The first day also of the seventh month shall be venerable and holy unto you; you shall do no servile work therein, because it is the day of the sounding and of trumpets.
2 And you shall offer a holocaust for a most sweet odour to the Lord, one calf of the herd, one ram and seven lambs of a year old, without blemish.
3 And for their sacrifices, three tenths of flour tempered with oil to every calf, two tenths to a ram,
4 One tenth to a lamb, which in all are seven lambs:
5 And a buck goat for sin, which is offered for the expiation of the people,
6 Besides the holocaust of the first day of the month with the sacrifices thereof, and the perpetual holocaust with the accustomed libations. With the same ceremonies you shall offer a burnt sacrifice for a most sweet odour to the Lord.
7 The tenth day also of this seventh month shall be holy and venerable unto you, and you shall afflict your souls: you shall do no servile work therein.
8 And you shall offer a holocaust to the Lord for a most sweet odour, one calf of the herd, one ram, and seven lambs of a year old, without blemish:
9 And for their sacrifices, three tenths of flour tempered with oil to every calf, two tenths to a ram,
10 The tenth of a tenth to every lamb, which are in all seven lambs:
11 And a buck goat for sin, besides the things that are wont to be offered for sin, for expiation, and for the perpetual holocaust with their sacrifice and libations.
12 And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, which shall be unto you holy and venerable, you shall do no servile work, but shall celebrate a solemnity to the Lord seven days.
13 And you shall offer a holocaust for a most sweet odour to the Lord, thirteen calves of the herd, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:
14 And for their libations three tenths of flour tempered with oil to every calf, being in all thirteen calves: and two tenths to each ram, being two rams,
15 And the tenth of a tenth to every lamb, being in all fourteen lambs:
16 And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.
17 On the second day you shall offer twelve calves of the herd, two rams and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:
18 And the sacrifices and the libations for every one, for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall duly celebrate:
19 And a buck goat for a sin offering besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.
20 The third day you shall offer eleven calves, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:
21 And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall offer according to the rite:
22 And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice, and the libation thereof.
23 The fourth day you shall offer tell calves, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:
24 And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate in right manner:
25 And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.
26 The fifth day you shall offer nine calves, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:
27 And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate according to the rite:
28 And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.
29 The sixth day you shall offer eight calves, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:
30 And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate according to the rite:
31 And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.
32 The seventh day you shall offer seven calves and two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:
33 And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate according to the rite:
34 And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.
35 On the eighth day, which is moat solemn, you shall do no servile work:
36 But you shall offer a holocaust for a most sweet odour to the Lord, one calf, one ram, and seven lambs of a year old, without blemish:
37 And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate according to the rite:
38 And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.
39 These things shall you offer to the Lord in your solemnities: besides your vows and voluntary oblations for holocaust, for sacrifice, for libation, and for victims of peace offerings.
