1 I will stand at my post, and station myself on the rampart. And I will keep watch to see what he will say to me, and what he will answer concerning my complaint.
2 Then Yahweh answered me and said, "Write the vision and make it plain on the tablet so that it might be read quickly.
3 For there is yet a vision for the appointed time; it will give witness to the end, and it will not lie. If it tarries, wait for it, for it will surely come and not delay.
4 Look! His spirit within him is puffed up; it is not upright. But the righteous shall live by his faithfulness.
5 How much less the defiant; the arrogant, treacherous man? He who broadens his throat like Sheol, and who, like death, is not satisfied, and who gathers to himself all the nations, and harvested for himself all the peoples, will not succeed.
6 Shall not all of these take up a taunt against him, with ridicule and riddles against him, saying, 'Woe to him who heaps up what is not his'? For how long? And, 'Woe to him who makes himself heavy with pledges'?
7 Will not your creditors suddenly rise up and awaken those who make you tremble? Then you shall be as plunder for them.
8 Because you plundered many nations, all the remaining nations will plunder you on account of the blood of humanity and violence against the land, and against cities and all who live in them.
9 Woe to him who obtains profit from evil gain for his house, to set his nest on high, to be saved from the hand of misfortune!
10 You have plotted shame for your house, cutting off many peoples and sinning against your life.
11 For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the plaster from the wood will answer it.
12 Woe to him who builds a city by bloodguilt, and who founds a city by wickedness!
13 Look! Is it not from Yahweh of hosts that people labor for mere fire, and nations exhaust themselves for mere vanity?
14 For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of Yahweh, like the waters covering the sea.
15 Woe to him who gives a drink to his neighbors, pouring out your wrath and also making them drunk in order to see their nakedness!
16 You will be sated with shame rather than glory. Drink also yourself, and expose yourself! The cup of the right hand of Yahweh will come around upon you and disgrace upon your glory.
17 For the violence of Lebanon will cover you, and the destruction of wild animals will shatter them on account of the blood of humanity, and the violence against the land, against a city and all the inhabitants in it.
18 What value is an idol when its carver has fashioned it, a molten idol, a teacher of lies? For he who fashioned his creation trusts in it, though making mute idols!
19 Woe to him who says to the wood, 'Wake up!' And to a lifeless stone, 'Arise!' Can he teach? Look, it is covered with gold and silver, and there is no breath within it.
20 But Yahweh is in his holy temple. Let all the earth be silent before him."