1 The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel by Malachi.
2 I have loved you, saith Jehovah; but ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? saith Jehovah, and I loved Jacob,
3 and I hated Esau; and made his mountains a desolation, and  his inheritance to the jackals of the wilderness.
4 If Edom say, We are broken down, but we will build again the ruined places,—thus saith Jehovah of hosts: They shall build, but I will throw down; and  shall call them the territory of wickedness, and the people against whom Jehovah hath indignation for ever.
5 And your eyes shall see , and ye shall say, Jehovah is magnified beyond the border of Israel.
6 A son honoureth  father, and a servant his master: if then I be a father, where is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is my fear? saith Jehovah of hosts unto you, priests, that despise my name. But ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name?
7 Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of Jehovah is contemptible.
8 And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Present it now unto thy governor: will he be pleased with thee? or will he accept thy person? saith Jehovah of hosts.
9 And now, I pray you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us. This hath been of your hand: will he accept any of your persons? saith Jehovah of hosts.
10 Who is there among you that would even shut the doors? and ye would not kindle  on mine altar for nothing. I have no delight in you, saith Jehovah of hosts, neither will I accept an oblation at your hand.
11 For from the rising of the sun even unto its setting my name shall be great among the nations; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure oblation: for my name shall be great among the nations, saith Jehovah of hosts.
12 But ye profane it, in that ye say, The table of the Lord is polluted; and the fruit thereof, his food, is contemptible.
13 And ye say, Behold, what a weariness! And ye have puffed at it, saith Jehovah of hosts, and ye bring [that which was] torn, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye bring the oblation: should I accept this of your hand? saith Jehovah.
14 Yea, cursed be the deceiver, who hath in his flock a male, and voweth and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing; for I am a great King, saith Jehovah of hosts, and my name is terrible among the nations.