1 So then, my beloved and greatly desired brothers, my joy and crown, thus stand firm in the Lord, dear friends. 
2 I appeal to Euodia and I appeal to Syntyche to be in agreement in the Lord. 
3 Yes, I ask also you, true yokefellow, help them, who struggled along with me in the gospel with both Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life.
4 Rejoice in the Lord always; again I say, rejoice. 
5 Let your gentleness be made known to all people. The Lord is near. 
6 Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God. 
7 And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. 
8 Finally, brothers, whatever things are true, whatever things are honorable, whatever things are right, whatever things are pure, whatever things are pleasing, whatever things are commendable, if there is any excellence of character and if anything praiseworthy, think about these things. 
9 And the things which you have learned and received and heard about and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you.
10 But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last you have renewed your concern for me, for whom also you were thinking, but you had no opportunity to express it. 
11 Not that I speak from need, for I have learned to be content in whatever circumstances I am. 
12 I know how both to make do with little and I know how to have an abundance. In everything and in all things I have learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to have an abundance and to go without. 
13 I am able to do all things by the one who strengthens me. 
14 Nevertheless you have done well by sharing with me in my affliction. 
15 Now you also know, Philippians, that at the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shared with me in the matter of giving and receiving except you alone, 
16 because even in Thessalonica on more than one occasion you sent for my need. 
17 Not that I seek the gift, but I seek for the profit that increases to your account. 
18 But I have received everything in full and have an abundance; I am well supplied because I received from Epaphroditus what you had sent, a fragrant offering, an acceptable sacrifice, well-pleasing to God. 
19 And my God will fulfill your every need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. 
20 Now to our God and Father be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
21 Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers with me greet you. 
22 All the saints greet you, and especially those of Caesar's household. 
23 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.