1 Therefore, if there is any encouragement in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion, 
2 complete my joy, so that you are in agreement, having the same love, united in spirit, having one purpose. 
3 Do nothing according to selfish ambition or according to empty conceit, but in humility considering one another better than yourselves, 
4 each of you not looking out for your own interests, but also each of you for the interests of others.
5 Think this in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus,
6 who, existing in the form of God, did not consider being equal with God something to be grasped,
7 but emptied himself by taking the form of a slave, by becoming in the likeness of people. And being found in appearance like a man,
8 he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, that is, death on a cross.
9 Therefore also God exalted him and graciously granted him the name above every name,
10 so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven and of those on earth and of those under the earth,
11 and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
12 Therefore my dear friends, just as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. 
13 For the one at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure, is God. 
14 Do all things without grumbling and disputing, 
15 in order that you may become blameless and innocent, children of God without fault in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation, among whom you shine as stars in the world, 
16 holding fast to the word of life, for a source of pride to me in the day of Christ, that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. 
17 But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and rejoice with all of you. 
18 And in the same way also you rejoice and rejoice with me.
19 But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I also may be encouraged when I know your circumstances. 
20 For I have no one like-minded who will sincerely be concerned about your circumstances. 
21 For they all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. 
22 But you know his proven character, that like a child with a father he served with me for the gospel. 
23 Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see my circumstances. 
24 And I am convinced in the Lord that I myself will arrive shortly also.
25 But I considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, but your messenger and servant of my need, 
26 because he was longing for all of you and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick. 
27 For indeed he was sick, coming near to death, but God had mercy on him and not on him only, but also on me, so that I would not have grief upon grief. 
28 Therefore I am sending him with special urgency, in order that when you see him again you may rejoice, and I may be less anxious. 
29 Therefore welcome him in the Lord with all joy, and consider such people highly honored, 
30 because on account of the work of Christ he came near to the point of death, risking his life in order that he might make up for your inability to serve me.