1 Every one that believes that Jesus is the Christ is begotten of God; and every one that loves him that has begotten loves also him that is begotten of him.
2 Hereby know we that we love the children of God, when we love God and keep his commandments.
3 For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments; and his commandments are not grievous.
4 For all that has been begotten of God gets the victory over the world; and this is the victory which has gotten the victory over the world, our faith.
5 Who is he that gets the victory over the world, but he that believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
6 This is he that came by water and blood, Jesus  Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that bears witness, for the Spirit is the truth.
7 For they that bear witness are three:
8 the Spirit, and the water, and the blood; and the three agree in one.
9 If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater. For this is the witness of God  he has witnessed concerning his Son.
10 He that believes on the Son of God has the witness in himself; he that does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the witness which God has witnessed concerning his Son.
11 And this is the witness, that God has given to us eternal life; and this life is in his Son.
12 He that has the Son has life: he that has not the Son of God has not life.
13 These things have I written to you that ye may know that ye have eternal life who believe on the name of the Son of God.
14 And this is the boldness which we have towards him, that if we ask him anything according to his will he hears us.
15 And if we know that he hears us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions which we have asked of him.
16 If any one see his brother sinning a sin not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life, for those that do not sin unto death. There is a sin to death: I do not say of that that he should make a request.
17 Every unrighteousness is sin; and there is a sin not to death.
18 We know that every one begotten of God does not sin, but he that has been begotten of God keeps himself, and the wicked  does not touch him.
19 We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the wicked .
20 And we know that the Son of God has come, and has given us an understanding that we should know him that  true; and we are in him that  true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.
21 Children, keep yourselves from idols.