1 And in your causing the land to fall in inheritance, ye lift up a heave-offering to Jehovah, a holy  of the land: the length -- five and twenty thousand  the length, and the breadth ten thousand; it  holy in all its border round about.
2 There is of this for the sanctuary five hundred by five hundred, square, round about; and fifty cubits of suburb  to it round about.
3 And by this measure thou dost measure: the length  five and twenty thousand, and the breadth ten thousand: and in it is the sanctuary, the holy of holies.
4 The holy  of the land it ; for priests, ministrants of the sanctuary, it is, who are drawing near to serve Jehovah; and it hath been to them a place for houses, and a holy place for a sanctuary.
5 `And of the five and twenty thousand of length, and of the ten thousand of breadth, there is to the Levites, ministrants of the house, for them -- for a possession -- twenty chambers.
6 `And of the possession of the city ye give five thousand of breadth, and of length five and twenty thousand, over-against the heave-offering of the holy : to all the house of Israel it is.
7 As to the prince, on this side, and on that side, of the heave-offering of the holy place, and of the possession of the city, at the front of the heave-offering of the holy place, and at the front of the possession of the city, from the west corner westward, and from the east corner eastward -- and the length  over-against one of the portions from the west border unto the east border --
8 of the land there is to him for a possession in Israel, and My princes do not oppress any more My people, and the land they give to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
9 `Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Enough to you -- princes of Israel; violence and spoil turn aside, and judgment and righteousness do; lift up your exactions from off My people -- an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.
10 Just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath -- ye have.
11 The ephah and the bath is of one measure, for the bath to bear a tenth of the homer, and the ephah a tenth of the homer: according to the homer is its measurement.
12 And, the shekel  twenty gerah: twenty shekels, five and twenty shekels, fifteen shekels -- is your maneh.
13 `This  the heave-offering that ye lift up; a sixth part of the ephah of a homer of wheat, also ye have given a sixth part of the ephah of a homer of barley,
14 and the portion of oil, the bath of oil, a tenth part of the bath out of the cor, a homer of ten baths -- for ten baths  a homer;
15 and one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, out of the watered country of Israel, for a present, and for a burnt-offering, and for peace-offerings, to make atonement by them -- an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.
16 All the people of the land are at this heave-offering for the prince in Israel.
17 And on the prince are the burnt-offerings, and the present, and the libation, in feasts, and in new moons, and in sabbaths, in all appointed times of the house of Israel: he doth make the sin-offering, and the present, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings, to make atonement for the house of Israel.
18 `Thus said the Lord Jehovah: In the first , in the first of the month, thou dost take a bullock, a son of the herd, a perfect one, and hast cleansed the sanctuary:
19 and the priest hath taken of the blood of the sin offering, and hath put on the door-post of the house, and on the four corners of the border of the altar, and on the post of the gate of the inner court.
20 And so thou dost do on the seventh of the month, because of each erring one, and because of the simple one -- and ye have purified the house.
21 `In the first , in the fourteenth day of the month, ye have the passover, a feast of seven days, unleavened food is eaten.
22 And the prince hath prepared on that day, for himself, and for all the people of the land, a bullock, a sin-offering.
23 And the seven days of the feast he prepareth a burnt-offering to Jehovah, seven bullocks, and seven rams, perfect ones, daily seven days, and a sin-offering, a kid of the goats, daily.
24 And a present of an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram, he doth prepare, and of oil a hin for an ephah.
25 In the seventh , in the fifteenth day of the month, in the feast, he doth according to these things seven days; as the sin-offering so the burnt-offering, and as the present so also the oil.