1 And He crieth in mine ears -- a loud voice -- saying, `Drawn near have inspectors of the city, and each his destroying weapon in his hand.'
2 And lo, six men are coming from the way of the upper gate, that is facing the north, and each his slaughter-weapon in his hand, and one man in their midst is clothed with linen, and a scribe's inkhorn at his loins, and they come in, and stand near the brazen altar.
3 And the honour of the God of Israel hath gone up from off the cherub, on which it hath been, unto the threshold of the house.
4 And He calleth unto the man who is clothed with linen, who hath the scribe's inkhorn at his loins, and Jehovah saith unto him, `Pass on into the midst of the city, into the midst of Jerusalem, and thou hast made a mark on the foreheads of the men who are sighing and who are groaning for all the abominations that are done in its midst.'
5 And to the others he said in mine ears, `Pass on into the city after him, and smite; your eye doth not pity, nor do ye spare;
6 aged, young man, and virgin, and infant, and women, ye do slay -- to destruction; and against any man on whom  the mark ye do not go nigh, and from My sanctuary ye begin.'
7 And they begin among the aged men who  before the house, and He saith unto them, `Defile the house, and fill the courts with the wounded, go forth.' And they have gone forth and have smitten in the city.
8 And it cometh to pass, as they are smiting, and I -- I am left -- that I fall on my face, and cry, and say, `Ah, Lord Jehovah, art Thou destroying all the remnant of Israel, in Thy pouring out Thy wrath on Jerusalem?'
9 And He saith unto me, `The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah  very very great, and the land is full of blood, and the city hath been full of perverseness, for they have said: Jehovah hath forsaken the land, and Jehovah is not seeing.
10 And I also, Mine eye doth not pity, nor do I spare; their way on their own head I have put.'
11 And lo, the man clothed with linen, at whose loins  the inkhorn, is bringing back word, saying, `I have done as Thou hast commanded me.'