1 And he causeth me to go to the gate, the gate that is looking eastward.
2 And lo, the honour of the God of Israel hath come from the way of the east, and His voice  as the noise of many waters, and the earth hath shone from His honour.
3 And according to the appearance  the appearance that I saw, as the appearance that I saw in my coming in to destroy the city, and the appearances  as the appearance that I saw at the river Chebar, and I fall on my face.
4 And the honour of Jehovah hath come in unto the house, the way of the gate whose face  eastward.
5 And take me up doth the Spirit, and bringeth me in unto the inner court, and lo, the honour of Jehovah hath filled the house.
6 And I hear one speaking unto me from the house, and a man hath been standing near me,
7 and He saith unto me: `Son of man, the place of My throne, And the place of the soles of My feet, Where I dwell in the midst of the sons of Israel to the age, Defile no more do the house of Israel My holy name, They, and their kings, by their whoredom, And by the carcases of their kings -- their high places.
8 In their putting their threshold with My threshold, And their door-post near My door-post, And the wall between Me and them, And they have defiled My holy name, By their abominations that they have done, And I consume them in Mine anger.
9 Now do they put far off their whoredom, And the carcases of their kings -- from Me, And I have dwelt in their midst to the age.
10 Thou, son of man, Shew the house of Israel the house, And they are ashamed of their iniquities, And they have measured the measurement.
11 And since they have been ashamed of all that they have done, The form of the house, and its measurement, And its outlets, and its inlets, and all its forms, And all its statutes, even all its forms, And all its laws cause them to know, And write  before their eyes, And they observe all its forms, And all its statutes, and have done them.
12 This  a law of the house: on the top of the mountain, all its border all round about  most holy; lo, this  a law of the house.
13 `And these  measures of the altar by cubits: The cubit  a cubit and a handbreadth, and the centre  a cubit, and a cubit the breadth; and its border on its edge round about  one span, and this  the upper part of the altar.
14 And from the centre of the ground unto the lower border  two cubits, and the breadth one cubit, and from the lesser border unto the greater border four cubits, and the breadth a cubit.
15 `And the altar  four cubits, and from the altar and upward  four horns.
16 And the altar  twelve long by twelve broad, square in its four squares.
17 And the border  fourteen long by fourteen broad, at its four squares, and the border round about it  half a cubit, and the centre to it  a cubit round about, and its steps are looking eastward.'
18 And He saith unto me, `Son of man, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: These  statutes of the altar in the day of its being made to cause burnt-offering to go up on it, and to sprinkle on it blood.
19 And thou hast given unto the priests, the Levites, who  of the seed of Zadok -- who are near unto Me, an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, to serve Me -- a calf from the herd, for a sin-offering.
20 And thou hast taken of its blood, and hast put it on its four horns, and on the four corners of its border, and on the border round about, and hast cleansed it, and purified it.
21 And thou hast taken the bullock of the sin-offering, and hast burnt it in the appointed place of the house at the outside of the sanctuary.
22 And on the second day thou dost bring near a kid of the goats, a perfect one, for a sin-offering, and they have cleansed the altar, as they cleansed  for the bullock.
23 In thy finishing cleansing, thou dost bring near a calf, a son of the herd, a perfect one, and a ram out of the flock, a perfect one.
24 And thou hast brought them near before Jehovah, and the priests have cast upon them salt, and have caused them to go up, a burnt-offering to Jehovah.
25 Seven days thou dost prepare a goat for a sin-offering daily, and a bullock, a son of the herd, and a ram out of the flock, perfect ones, do they prepare.
26 Seven days they purify the altar, and have cleansed it, and filled their hand.
27 And the days are completed, and it hath come to pass on the eighth day, and henceforth, the priests prepare on the altar your burnt-offerings and your peace-offerings, and I have accepted you -- an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.'