1 And it cometh to pass, in the thirtieth year, in the fourth , in the fifth of the month, and I  in the midst of the Removed by the river Chebar, the heavens have been opened, and I see visions of God.
2 In the fifth of the month -- it is the fifth year of the removal of the king Jehoiachin --
3 hath the word of Jehovah certainly been unto Ezekiel son of Buzi the priest, in the land of the Chaldeans, by the river Chebar, and there is on him there a hand of Jehovah.
4 And I look, and lo, a tempestuous wind is coming from the north, a great cloud, and fire catching itself, and brightness to it round about, and out of its midst as the colour of copper, out of the midst of the fire.
5 And out of its midst  a likeness of four living creatures, and this  their appearance; a likeness of man  to them,
6 and four faces  to each, and four wings  to each of them,
7 and their feet  straight feet, and the sole of their feet  as a sole of a calf's foot, and they are sparkling as the colour of bright brass;
8 and hands of man under their wings -- on their four sides, and their faces and their wings --  to them four;
9 joining one unto another  their wings, they turn not round in their going, each straight forward they go.
10 As to the likeness of their faces, the face of a man, and the face of a lion, toward the right  to them four, and the face of an ox on the left  to them four, and the face of an eagle  to them four.
11 And their faces and their wings are separate from above, to each  two joining together, and two are covering their bodies.
12 And each straight forward they go, whither the spirit is to go, they go, they turn not round in their going.
13 As to the likeness of the living creatures, their appearances  as coals of fire -- burning as the appearance of lamps; it is going up and down between the living creatures, and brightness  to the fire, and out of the fire is going forth lightning.
14 And the living creatures are running, and turning back, as the appearance of the flash.
15 And I see the living creatures, and lo, one wheel  in the earth, near the living creatures, at its four faces.
16 The appearance of the wheels and their works  as the colour of beryl, and one likeness  to them four, and their appearances and their works  as it were the wheel in the midst of the wheel.
17 On their four sides, in their going they go, they turn not round in their going.
18 As to their rings, they are both high and fearful, and their rings  full of eyes round about them four.
19 And in the going of the living creatures, the wheels go beside them, and in the living creatures being lifted up from off the earth, lifted up are the wheels.
20 Whither the spirit is to go, they go, thither the spirit  to go, and the wheels are lifted up over-against them, for a living spirit  in the wheels.
21 In their going, they go; and in their standing, they stand; and in their being lifted up from off the earth, lifted up are the wheels over-against them; for a living spirit  in the wheels.
22 And a likeness  over the heads of the living creatures of an expanse, as the colour of the fearful ice, stretched out over their heads from above.
23 And under the expanse their wings  straight, one toward the other, to each are two covering on this side, and to each are two covering on that side -- their bodies.
24 And I hear the noise of their wings, as the noise of many waters, as the noise of the Mighty One, in their going -- the noise of tumult, as the noise of a camp, in their standing they let fall their wings.
25 And there is a voice from above the expanse, that  above their head: in their standing they let fall their wings.
26 And above the expanse that  over their head, as an appearance of a sapphire stone,  the likeness of a throne, and on the likeness of the throne a likeness, as the appearance of man upon it from above.
27 And I see as the colour of copper, as the appearance of fire within it round about, from the appearance of his loins and upward, and from the appearance of his loins and downward, I have seen as the appearance of fire, and brightness  to it round about.
28 As the appearance of the bow that is in a cloud in a day of rain, so  the appearance of the brightness round about.