Moreover before the fat was burned, the priest's servant would come and say to the man that was making the oblation, Give me, I pray thee, of the flesh to be boiled for the priest; he hath no taste for food baken in water, but would have you give it uncooked.
And Saul and all Israel heard of those words of the Philistine, were troubled and full of fear.
And they pass over, and let us go, and the sun goeth in upon them near Gibeah, which is to Benjamin:
Then said Saul unto Jonathan, tell me, what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand, and, lo, I must die.
Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him a equal to a thousand men, and he went out, and came in before the people.
David answered, "What have I done even now? I merely asked a question!
once being publicly, uncovered both to shame and to afflictions, and there is become partakers with them that were treated in this way.
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered into the stronghold of the house of Elberith.
And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands.
And turn ye not aside: for then should ye go after vain things, which cannot profit nor deliver: for they are vain.
For this cause he shall offer sacrifices for sins for the people, as well as for himself.
And he said unto him, "We are to pass from Bethlehem, Judah to the hinder side of the hill-country of Ephraim. I am from thence, and I went to Beth-lehem-judah. I go unto Yahweh's house; and there is no man that hath taken me into his house.
And Jehovah gave them into the hand of Jabin, king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of his army was Sisera, who dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
But all Israel and Judah, loved David, for he went out, and came in before them.
There abideth then a sabbatism to the people of God.
Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song: arise, Barak, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam.
The raiders went out from the camp of the Philistines in three divisions. One course turned in the way to Ophrah, toward the land of Shual.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king delighteth not any dowry but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life:
And when he came, Eli sat by the way side watching: and in his heart was fear for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told him, there was a great my soul.
War came again, so David went out and fought against the Philistines, and smote them thoroughly so that they fled before him.
We smote the south part of the country of the Cherethites, and on the land which is Judah's, and on the south of Caleb; and we put Ziklag, on fire.
Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose army was Sisera, that dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
Who serve unto the ensample and shadow of heavenly things. as it was answered unto Moses, when he was to finish the tabernacle: See saith he) that thou make all things after the pattern which hath been showed thee in the mount.
And as they went up the hill to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And because it is not without an oath, (for the others indeed were made priests without an oath,
And Saul said, No man shall be put to death this day, because Jehovah this day hath wrought salvation in Israel:
In those days, when there was no king in Israel, there was a certain Levite living upon the hinder side of the hill-country of Ephraim, who took him a concubine out of Beth-lehem-judah.
Will the rulers of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Will Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, please tell thy servant!" And Jehovah said, "He shall come down."
Therefore,' saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, 'though I earnestly said that thy house, and thy father's house, would walk before me for ever, but now,' saith Jehovah, 'far be it from me, for them that honor me I will honor, but they that despise me, I will do with contempt!
and the Philistine, looked and saw David, and despiseth him; for he was a youth, and ruddy, with a fair countenance.
And the king sat at his throne as at the first, the throne by the wall, and Jonathan rose up, and Abner sat beside Saul, but David's place was empty.
But I trust in Jehovah that I myself also shall come to pass.
And she said, O my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am that woman that was making a prayer unto Jehovah here by thy side:
And they stood every man in his place, round about the camp; and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.
for also in Thessalonica once and even twice ye sent to me for my need.
and, so terrible was the sight, Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid and full of trembling;)
And when David perceived that Saul had gone out to seek his life, David was in the wilderness of Ziph, at Horesh.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Behold, all ye, children of Israel, take counsel and give here counsel.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins, who had not known man by lying with him; and they brought them to the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Grace be with you all.
The men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under and Kar.
The house of Joseph also went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
Now Anna spake in her heart, and only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard at all. Heli therefore thought her to be drunken,
And Jephthah sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?
And Saul abode in the uttermost part of Geba under the pomegranate-tree, which was in Migron; and the people with him were about six hundred men.
For to go against his commandments, is like the sin of those that use enchantments, and pride is like calling on images. Because thou hast put away from thee the word of the Lord, he hath put you from thy place as king.
Therefore I also have lent him to Jehovah all the days of his life; he shall be lent to Jehovah. And they worshipped Jehovah there. And Anna prayed, and said,
But when Jesus had made one oblation for sins for ever, he took his place at the right hand of God,
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable multitudes of angels,
who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
The men of Ephraim were gathered together, and passed northward; and they said unto Jephthah, "Why did ye pass over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didn't call us to go with you? We will burn thy house round about you with fire!"
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek the fruit that may abound unto thy sake,
And at that time, when Eli abode in his place, (now his eyes were waxed clouded so that he was not able to see,)
And ye shall see the affliction of my habitation, in all the riches which I will give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And the words, Yet again shall one more, declare it that there shall be a taking away of those things which are shaken, as of things which are made, so that there may be only such things whereof no commotion possible.
Be nothing solicitous; but in every thing, by prayer, with thanksgiving, let your supplications be made known unto God.
even as also in another place he saith, "You art a priest for ever according to the ordinance of Melchizedek,"
And he took his army, and divided it into three bands, and laid liers-in-wait in the field. And when he saw that the people came out of the city, he arose and set upon them,
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hired with them vain and wanton men, and they followed him.
Remember them that would lead thee, who spake unto you the word of God, whose faith, the considering the issue of the behavior even be imitating,
Therefore Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph;
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony unto the things that would be spoken,
And Jehovah said unto him, "But I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite Midian as though they are one man."
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give bread cakes to my people, for they are put to travail, seeing I go after Zebah and Zalmunna; the kings of Midian.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim; saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah; come ye down, and fetch it up to you.
who being effulgence of his glory and form of his substance, And upholding all things by the word of his power, having made [by himself] the purification of sins, set himself down on the right hand of the greatness on high,
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil.
Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was assembled together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpah.
The children of Benjamin went out to meet the people, and they drawn them away from the city and began to distress casualties on the troops as at the first, by the highway; one of that goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah: and in the field there were about thirty men of Israel.
And the Philistines warred, and Israel was routed, and they fled every man to his tent: and there was a very great slaughter, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen:
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be nakedness; among women. And Samuel hewed him in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But we cannot give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife unto the Benjaminites!
But Christ being come a high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building.
And in like manner do thee rejoice and be a part in my joy.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long art thou mourning for Saul, and I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee unto Jesse the Beth-Lehemite, for I have seen among his sons for myself a king.
For Jehovah will not cast off his people for his great name's sake: Because it pleased Jehovah to make thee his people.
for your partnership in furtherance of the gospel from the first day until now:
And the servants of Achish said unto him, "Is not this David the king of the land? Is it not for this one that they sang in the dances, saying, 'Saul slew his thousands, but David his ten thousands?'"
that serve a sketch and shadow of the heavenly things, as Moses was warned when he was about to complete the tabernacle, for he saith, "See to it that ye make everything according to the pattern which hath been showed thee in the mountain."
And when he restored the money to his mother, and his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them unto a silversmith, who made a graven image and a molten image out of it; and it was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were struck; for the men of Israel yielded to Benjamin, because they trusted the liers-in-wait whom they had set against Gibeah.
Saul was very wroth, and this saying displeased him, and he said, "They have attributed to David ten thousands, but to me they have attributed thousands! What more can he have but the kingdom?"
Then David went to the other side and stood on the top of the hill afar off: the distance was great between them.
not according to the covenant which I sware unto their fathers in the day that I took their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not abide in my covenant, and I did not regard them, saith Jehovah.
The Gazites were taught: "Samson is come here," so they compassed the place and lay in ambush for him all night in the gate; They held his peace all night, saying, "We will tarry till the morning light, and then we will slay him."
And the Holy Spirit also beareth us witness [of it]; for after that which was said,
But ye know his approvedness, that like a child with a father he served with me for the gospel.
And the family of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
The word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped beside Ebenezer; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Then the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days, that we may send men to every part of Israel: and then, if none come to our help, we will come out unto you.
Have moreover tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And when he had set the marks on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burned up both the shocks, and also the standing grain, with the vineyards and olives.
Therefore they said, Who is thereof all the tribes of Israel, that came not up to the Lord to Mizpah. And, behold, the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead were found not to have been in that host.
If ye endure chastening, God worketh with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
So Saul said unto his servant, "Your counsel is a good one. Come, let us go." And they went to the city where the man of God was.
Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, "Come, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint on Jehovah to save by many or by few."
And they said unto him, "Behold, thou shalt be old, and your sons don't walk in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us according to all the nations."
nor did they show favor to the house of Jerub-Baal (the same is Gideon) according to all the good that he did for Israel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel: How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, whom I have rejected from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and come, that I may send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite: for I have prepared me a king in his sons.
And he took up the mouth-bone of an ass Which are dead, which he saw by chance upon the earth, he put to death a thousand men with it.
And Gaal, the son of Ebed went out, and stood at the door of the city: and Abimelech and his people rose up from the place where they had been waiting.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, "God is come into the camp." And they said, "Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing aforetime.
For if that first was faultless, place had not been sought for a second.
And Deborah and Barak son of Abinoam sang on that day:
Salute all your heads, and all the saints; They from Italy, salute you.
Jonathan climbed up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew them after him.
If a man cometh over his enemy, will he let him get away alive? so be thou rewarded by the Lord for that which thou hast done for me this day.
And the Philistines came together to war against Israel, three thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and an army of people as the sand of the sea of the covenant; they came up and encamped in Michmash, unto the east of Beth-aven.
And David girded his sword above his long robe, and began to go, for he hath not tried it; and David said unto Saul, I am not able to go with these, for I had not tried;' and David carried them away from him.
So Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
I exhort Euodia, and exhort Syntyche, to be of the same mind in Jehovah;
Now Saul came in from the field, and to destroy the oxen before him; and he said, Why are the people Hagar? And they he heard the words of the men of Jabesh had said.
Also present yourselves now, and see this great thing which Jehovah doeth before your eyes,
For every house is built by someone; but he who built all things is God.
And Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalek.
And the men of Ashdod, seeing this manner of plague, said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is heavy upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And he that doeth nothing through envy or through pride, but with low thoughts of self let every one take others to be better than himself;
but this is that which we will do to the hill: we will go up against it by the judgment of Jehovah;
Do not increase speaking very proud words: Let no pride go forth out of thy mouth, for Jehovah is a God of knowledge whose works are without weight.
And Saul know the voice of David, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David?' and David said, My voice, my lord, O king!'
And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten the garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel also was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And they smote Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all strong and able men; none escaped.
for if that first were faultless, a place should not have been sought for a second.
Saul also went to his house to Gibeah: and the host went with him, whose heart God had hip.
After this he loved a woman, who dwelt in the valley of Sorec, and she was called Dalila.
and he said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. Then Heli understood that Jehovah called the child, and he said unto Samuel: Go, and sleep: and if he shall call thee any more, thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and slept in his stead.
The men of Israel were distressed that day; for Saul had straitly sworn the people, saying, "Cursed is the man that eateth any food until it is evening, and avenge me of my enemies." So none of the people tasted food.
He will take the tenth part of thy sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
When Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, "What doth the noise of this tumult mean?" The man hasted, and came and told Eli.
Speak I pray you, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, Which good for you the ruled over you of seventy men (all the sons of Jerubbaal), or the ruled over you of one man? and ye have remembered that I thy bone and thy flesh.'
And Jehovah will also give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me; the army of Israel also will Jehovah give into the hand of the Philistines.
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
And the people said unto Saul, "Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Far from it! As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God today!" So the people rescued Jonathan, that he didn't die.
don't I pray thee, let my lord visit this worthless fellow, Nabal; for as his name is, even so is he. Nabal is his name, and folly is with him; but thy servant didn't see my lord's young men, whom ye sent.
And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to taskwork, and did not utterly drive them out.
The trees went forth upon a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive-tree, Reign thou over us.
For they truly gave us punishment for a little time, as seemed good unto them; but he doeth it for our profit, so that we may become holy as he is.
And as it is waited for people to die once, and after this, judgment,
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen; that drew sword.
Thou shalt make images of your emerods, and images of your mice that are destroying the land, and ye shall give glory to the God of Israel. peradventure he will lighten his hand upon thee, and upon thy gods and upon thy land.
And his mother's kinsfolk spake all these words concerning him to all the lords of Shechem; and they furthered Abimelech, for they said, "He is our relative."
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, that had seen all the great work of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
Wherefore ye shall make images of your emerods, and images of your mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off thee, and from off thy gods, and from off thy land.
And after him came Jair the Gileadite, who was judge over Israel for twenty and two years.
And Barak said unto her, If thou goest with me, then will I go, but if thou goest not with me, I will not go.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
But Samuel said, "How can I go? If Saul heareth, he will slay me." Jehovah said, "You must take a heifer of the herd with you, and say, 'I are come to sacrifice to Yahweh.'
Thou made him a little lower than the angels; thou gavest him a crown of glory and honor and set him over all the works of your hand;
So they smote that day the Philistines from Michmash to Ailon. And the people were wearied exceedingly.
By whom This poor body of ours shall be turned into the image of the body of his glory, according to the working by which he is able to put all things in subjection under himself.
And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah. Sanctify yourselves, and come with me into the sacrifice. And he hallowed Jesse and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
Jonathan therefore gave his arms to the lad, and said unto him, Go, and carry them into the city.
Wherefore, my beloved and greatly desired brethren, my joy and crown, thus stand fast in the Lord, dear friends.
Now the first covenant had ordinances for worship and the earthly sanctuary.
she shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, neither shall she wine nor strong drink, nor eat anything unclean: all that I commanded her shall she observest not;
"The kings came, they fought; then the kings of Canaan fought; at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, they received no spoil in silver.
But Barak went after the chariots and the host as far as Harosheth of the Gentiles; and all Sisera's army was put to the sword; not a man escaped.
And he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto the asses: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
It is necessary therefore that the an ensample of heavenly things should be cleansed with these: but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
Now therefore, I pray thee, proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from the mount of Gilead.'" about twenty and two thousand troops returned, and ten thousand remained.
And David said to Abishai, Slay him not: for who shall put forth his hand against the Lord's anointed, and shall be guiltless?
And while Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, of the Philistines came near for the come upon Israel; but at the noise of the Lord's voice that day the Philistines were astonished, and they gave way before Israel.
And by faith Abraham made an offering of Isaac, when he was tried: and he with whom the covenant had been made gave up as an offering the only son of his body,
And David said, The Lord, who delivered me out of the lion and the bear, will Deliver my soul from the hands of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go and Jehovah be with you.
And a man of Benjamin fled from before the fight and came to Shiloh the same day with his raiment out of rent, and earth upon his head.
For as to our own daughters we cannot give them, being bound with an oath and a curse, whereby we said, Cursed be he that shall give Benjamin any of his daughters to wife.
For ye both had compassion on me in my bonds, and joyfully accepted the taking of yours, knowing that ye have you a better possession and a mighty one in the heavens.
And David said to Abigal Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, that sent thee this day to meet me.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah said, `Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.'
But the olive-tree said unto them, Shall I give up my wealth of oil, by which men give glory to God, and go wave over the trees?
Moreover I count all things to be but loss for the excellent knowledge of Jesus Christ my Jehovah; for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them but as dung, that I might gain Christ:
Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept until they had no power to weep.
and said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
The princes of Soccoth said, Peradventure the palms of the hands of Zebee and Salmana are in thy hand, and therefore thou askest that we should give bread to thy host.
Now the Philistines had taken God's ark, and they brought it from Ebenezer to in Ashdod, did
Judah took Gaza and the border thereof Ashkelon, and the border thereof and Ekron, with its border.
Then the elders of the assembly said, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
Being circumcision on the eighth day, of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews: according to the law, a Pharisee:
Then Samuel told him of all things; keep nothing back. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do what seemeth good unto him.
And this whole assembly shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for the battle is the Lord's, and he shall give you into your hand.
Then Benjamin came them; and they gave them the women whom they had kept in number among the women of Jabesh-gilead: yet now there were not enough for them.
Brethren, I don't regard myself as yet he took away, but one thing I do. Forgetting the things which are behind them; and stretched out to the things which are before,
And the women sing as they played, and they said, I Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
I thank my God upon my every remembrance of you,
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned. Do thou unto us according to all that is good in thy sight; but deliver us, we pray thee, this day.
And David girded his sword upon himself; and sought to go; for he had not yet tried it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go in these; for I have never tried it. And David put them off him.
And Gideon came to the Jordan, passed by, he and the three hundred men that were with him, wearied, and pursueth:
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this one.
And when the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, David took his instrument and made music, so new life came to Saul, and he gathered well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
So give not thy hope which shall be greatly rewarded.
And Abimelech abideth in Arumah, and Zebul casteth out Gaal and his brethren from dwelling in Shechem.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
Now Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised. it may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint unto Jehovah to save by many or by few.
Now when David and his men came to Ziklag, on the third day, the Amalekite had raided the South, and Ziklag; When they smote Ziklag, they burnt it with fire.
And the young man cometh unto the place of the arrow which Jonathan hath shot, and Jonathan called after the youth, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?'
And he saith unto his youth, Run, find, I pray thee, the arrows which I am shooting;' the lad runneth, and he hath shot arrows: that they caused to pass over him.
And they said unto Jephthah, Come, and thou shalt be to us for captain, and we fight against the Bene-Ammon.'
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish spake and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten teacher And now ye know what to do.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him exceedingly, and made him his armourbearer.
Gideon came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing.
If he is able to have a fight with me, and overcome me, then we shall minister unto thee: but if I am able to overcome him, then ye shall be our servants and do work for us.
for we have not a chief priest not able to sympathise with our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner even apart from sin;
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee; neither is there any rock like our God.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekite and the children of the east assembled themselves together; and they passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his family, and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, will take heed to your hearts and thy thoughts in Christ Jesus.
Now unto our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not go back with you; for thou hast put away from thee the word of the Lord, and Jehovah hath put you from thy place as king over Israel.
For whom Jehovah loveth he chastiseth; and he scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
And Achish believeth on David, saying, He hath made himself utterly abhorred among his people, in Israel, and hath been to me for a servant age-during.'
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
His father-in-law, the young lady's father, kept him there; and he abode with him three days. So they did eat and drink, and tarried there.
And she had an ambush standing in the inner chamber. She saith unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" And he brake the cords, as a bend of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire. And his strength was known.
And they were long time till they were put to shame, and seeing that no man opened the door, they took a key: and door, they found their lord lying dead upon the ground.
So six hundred men of the Danites from Zorah, and Eshtaol, went out armed with instruments of war.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
Therefore now rise up early in the morning with the servants of your lord that came with you; and as soon as ye are up early in the morning, and have light, depart."
Grace be with you all.
And Samuel took the bowl of the oil, and poureth upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it because Jehovah hath appointed thee over his inheritance for leader?
And when he had given the oblation, he sent away the people that were come with the oblation.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice. Nevertheless ye must earnestly warn them: thou shalt be declared unto them the custom of the king who shall rule over them."
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward: and Samuel rose up, and went to Ramatha.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to declare the vision to Eli.
And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine, to fight with him; for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth.
I also will not destroy the nations which Joshua left, when he died:
and we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
And the children of Benjamin boldly issued out of the city, and seeing their enemies flee, pursued them a long way, so as to wound and kill some of them, as they had done the first and the second day, as they fled by two highways, whereof one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Geba and they slew about thirty men:
And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And Abimelech sat down in Ruma: but Zebul drove Gaal, and his companions out of the city, and would not suffer them to continue in it.
and the people come in unto the forest, and behold, the honey dropped, and none is moved his hand unto his mouth, for the people feared the oath.
And they were not good to the house of for. that is, Gideon, in reward for all the good he had done to Israel.
For they that say such things declare it that they seek a country for themselves.
But I would ye should you, brethren, as touching the things which happened unto me are fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel;
This phrase, "Yet once more", signifies as those things that are shaken, as of things that have been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain.
The kine went right on the way in the way to Beth-shemesh, on the one highway; lowing as they went. They did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left, and the rulers of the Philistines were walking after them up to the border of and the goings out of
And the men of Israel were joined together that day; and Saul straitly sworn the people, saying, Cursed be the man that shall eat bread until even, till I avenge me of mine enemies; So none of the people tasted any food:
David went and returned from Saul, to feed his father's flock in Beth-lehem.
And for this cause he is mediator of a new covenant; so that, death he took place for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, the called might receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked commission of me to go to Beth-lehem.
when David arose, and went he and his men, and smote of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they delivered them in full unto the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
The one edge fastened on the north over against Michmash, and the one on the south over against Gibeah.
And David said, Shall the citizens of Keilah deliver up me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver up.
And he took the oblation unto Eglon, king of Moab, that was a very fat man.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, For this I covenant with you, by picking out to you every right eye and I have put it a reproach upon all Israel.'
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom if he come shortly) I will see thee.
Confirm ye my joy, that ye may be of one mind, having the same love, being of one accord, consenting in sentiment.
For it is God that worketh in you both to will and to work, for his good pleasure.
For many walk, of whom I have told you often (and now tell you weeping), that they are enemies of the cross of Christ;
then shall that which cometh forth from the door of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
Then Manue took a kid of the flocks, and the drink-offering thereof: and put them upon a rock, oblation unto Jehovah, who can marvellous things: and he and his wife looked on.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose up early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And it shall be, that in the morning, about the rising of the sun, thou shalt rise up early, and hast rebuked the city; and lo, he and the people that were with him are going out unto thee, and thou shalt do to him as thy hand doth find.'
And Saul goeth on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain, and David is hastened to go from the face of Saul; and Saul and his men are compassing David and his men, to catch them.
And he sent messengers into all Manasseh; and they also followed him: and other messengers into Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali, and they came to meet him.
Then all the inhabitants of the tower of Shechem, heard of it, and went into the inner chamber of the house of El-berith.
and they place his weapons the house of Ashtaroth, and his body they have chosen the wall of Beth-Shan.
And the spectacle was so terrify that Moses said, "I am terrified and trembling."
For this cause we should give heed more exceedingly to the things [we have] heard, lest by any means we should creep away.
And the three hundred cried blast with their horns, and every man's sword was turned by the Lord against his brother all through the host; and the army was scattered as far as Beth-shittah toward Zeredah, to the edge of Abel-meholah by Tabbath.
Then answered endureth that was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub,
The burden of the golden rings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the the crescents; and the pendants, and the purple raiment that was upon the kings of Midian, and besides the chains which were about their camels' necks
And Samson went to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
Let us then make for giving praise to God always through him, that is, the fruit of lips bearing witness his name.
Then Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast been mocking me with falsehood; now, say truly how shall I be put in attire?
For it is God who worketh in you, both to will and to accomplish, according to his good will.
This is the token for you that shall come set thy two sons Hophni and Phinehas. they shall both die on the same day!
And we see that they could not enter in by reason of unbelief;)
Then he returned to Ramah, because his house was there, and there he judged Israel, and he built an altar unto Jehovah there.
Now therefore hear, I pray thee, my lord the king, the words of thy servant: If Jehovah stir thee up against me, let him accept of meal-offering; but if the sons of men, they are cursed in the sight of the Lord, who have cast me out this day, that I should not dwell in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death,
And the princes of the Philistines gave her seven new bow-cords which had not been made dry, and she had them straitly made of round about him.
Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, until it was light.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost; and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take, I pray, one of the young men with thee, and arise, go seek the asses.
And Samuel took a little vial of oil and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Behold, the Lord hath anointed thee that thou shouldest be prince over his inheritance, and thou shalt deliver his people out of the hand of their enemies, that are round about them: and this shall be the sign unto thee, that God hath anointed thee to be prince.
but after the second veil a tent which is called Holy most holy things,
But he, when he had offered a sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;
If thou send back the ark of the God of Israel, send it not away empty, but render unto him what thou owest for a sin-offering, and then thou shalt be healed; and ye shall know why his hand man, departed not from you.
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
Oh let our lord command your servants that are before you, Let them seek a skilful playing upon the harp. When the evil spirit from God is upon you, he can play upon them, and feel better."
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him at Mahaneh-Dan, between Zoreah and Eshtaol.
Yet they didn't hearken unto their judges; For they played the harlot unto other gods, and bowed down themselves to them. And they turned aside quickly out of the way which their fathers walked, obey Yahweh's commandments. They didn't do so.
And on the morrow after the new moon, that is, the second day, there was yet no man in David's seat: and Saul said unto his son Jonathan, Why hath the son of Jesse not come to the feast yesterday or to-day?
And the men of Ashdod, see that [it is] so, and said, It is the ark of the God of Israel doth not abide with us; for hard hath been his hand upon us, and upon Dagon our god.'
And after ten days were fulfilled, the Lord smote Nabal, and he died.
Now the name of the man was Nabal: and the name of his wife was Abigail. And she was a prudent and very comely woman; but her husband was churlish, and very bad and ill natured: and he was of the house of Caleb,
They shall perish, but thou continuest still: and they all shall wax old like a garment;
Then came up me, to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the forest in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon?
And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
Then said Saul unto Ahiah, bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
and both straw and provender are for our asses, and also bread and wine there are for me, and for thy maid-servant, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no lack of anything.'
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? tell us wherewith we shall send it to its place.
For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick.
And Gaal the son of Obed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem. And the inhabitants of Shechem took courage, and at his coming.
By faith, even Sarah herself received power conception, and she bare a child when she was past age, since she counted him faithful who had spoken.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they did not escape that had refused him that uttered the oracles upon earth, much more we that turn away from him [who doeth so] out of heaven:
Now Hannah, she spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore Eli thought she had been drunken.
And his friend answered and said, This is of a truth the sword of Gideon, the son of Joash the men of Israel: into their hands God hath given up all the host of Midian.
Woe unto us! Who shall give us out of the hand of these great gods? These are the gods that sent all manner of bloweth upon the Egyptians in the wilderness.
and make straight paths for thy feet, and which is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed.
And Jehovah came and said as at the first, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Say on, Jehovah; for the ears of thy servant hear.
Therefore Saul went down to the wilderness of Ziph, taking with him three thousand of the choice men of Israel, seeking for David in the wilderness of Ziph;
The mountains were shaking before Jehovah, before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Samuel died, and all Israel together, and mourn for him, and buried him in his own house, in Ramah; and David arose, and went down unto the wilderness of Paran.
by which shall we have been sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
Now there was a man from the servants of Saul on that day, shut up before Jehovah, whose name was endureth the chief of Saul's shepherds.
And their bones they put in the earth under a tree in Jabesh; and seven days they took no food.
and if thus they say, Come up against us,' then we have gone up, for Jehovah hath given them into our hand, and this unto us the sign.
And Gideon knew that he was the angel of Jehovah, and Gideon said, "Oh, my lord Jehovah! For now I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face."
Or else wouldn't they have ceased to be offered because the worshippers, having been once cleansed, would have had no more conscience toward sins?
that he might prove Israel by them, whether they are feeding the way of Jehovah, to go in it, as their fathers kept or not.'
But he, because he liveth for ever, hath his priesthood unchangeable.
And we see that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers signs, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
And they indeed for a few days, according to their own pleasure, instructed us: but he, for our profit, that we might receive his sanctification.
And he was judge of Israel in the days of the Philistines for twenty years.
Then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
David therefore, and his men, went to Ceila, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and made a great slaughter of them: and David saved the inhabitants of the district of Keilah.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and pour it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it because Jehovah hath anointed thee prince over his heritage?
Then they asked him to inquire of Jehovah, that they might know whether their journey should be prosperous, and the thing should have effect.
Then Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph;
Then Abimelech returned to Arumah; and Zebul sent Gaal and his brethren away, and would not let them dwell in Shechem.
And Gilead took the passages of the Jordan to Ephraim, and it shall be, when [any of] the outcasts of Ephraim said, Let me pass over,' and the men of Gilead say unto him, An Ephramite thou?' And he said, `No;'
and into the second, once in the year, only the chief priest, not apart from blood, which he shall offer for himself and the remnant of the people,
of teaching of washings, and of the laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead and of eternal judgment;
And it came to pass, when their heart glad, That they say, Call Samson, and he shall play before us;' and they call for Samson from the house of bondage, and he playeth before them, and they cause him to stand between the pillars.
Let thy gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is at hand.
It is the same unto me, if I am looked down upon or honoured; everywhere and in all things have I the mystery of how to be full and how to go hungry; how to have riches and how to want.
For your speech in the gospel of Christ from the first day until now.
And it came to pass, while Saul speaking to the priest, that the noise which was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And it came to pass the same night, that the Lord said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it:
And they came to their kinsfolk at Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their kinsfolk said unto them, "What do ye report?"
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow: and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
And when Jehovah raised up unto them judges then was Jehovah with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it repenteth Jehovah, because of their groaning from the presence of their oppressors, and of them to thrust them away.
since it would have been needs suffer many times from the foundation of the world, but now he hath appeared once at the end of the worlds unto the captivity of sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And again the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, worshipping the Baalim and Astartes, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon and the gods of Moab and the gods of the children of Ammon and the gods of the Philistines; they gave up the Lord and were servants to him no more.
And all the people standing, answered as by the voice of one man: We will not return unto our tents, neither shall any one of us go into his own house:
Then the princes of the Philistines said, "What are these Hebrews doing here?" And Achish said unto the captains of the Philistines, "Is this not David, the servant of Saul, the king of Israel, who hath been with me for days and years? I have not found anything threatening in him from the day of his desertion until this day!"
Then the woman came to Saul and knew that he was utterly terrified: so she said unto him, "Look, thy maid-servant hath obeyed you, and I have hazarded my life; I have hearkened unto thy words which thou hast spoken unto me.
And they said, Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good; and ye are your peace, Be not sluggard to go, to enter in to possess the land.
The men of Gibeah rose against me, and compassed the house by night. They was minded to kill me, and they humbled my concubine, and she is dead.
Now I rejoice in Jehovah exceedingly; that now at length your thought for me cry as thou didst also think; but ye were busied.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz, and the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's mother's brother.
and testify unto us also doth the Holy Spirit, for after that he hath said before,
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehem-Judah whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons; and the man was old in the days of Saul, advanced [in years] among men.
So Anna arose after she had eat and drink in Shiloh, And Heli the priest sitting upon a seat, before the door of the temple of Jehovah;
Nay, my sons, the report is not good that I am hearing the people of Jehovah breaking out:
Thou shalt not according to faction or according to empty conceit but in meekness considering one another better than yourselves,
And he answered them, Are not thou the men that hated me, and cast me out of my father's house, and now ye are come to me constrained by necessity?
And he said, Great is my sin: but still, honoreth me now before the heads of my people and before Israel, and come back with me, that I may serve Jehovah your God.
and changed his manner of life before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scrabbled on the doors of the gate, and let his issue spit fall down upon his beard.
And he said, "Why doth my lord pursue his servant? For what have I done? What evil is in my hand?
and having been perfected; he did become to all them that obey him a cause of salvation is an everlasting
and David pursueth, he and four hundred men, (and two hundred men stand still that have been too faint to pass over the brook of Besor),
For if we keep the substance of the faith which we had at the beginning thereof; even until the end, we have a part with Christ;
And when the Sidonians, the Amalekites, and the Maonites oppressed you, ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
Now Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee?
Then the Philistines went up, encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
And Samuel said, How shall I go? if Saul hear it, he will slay me; And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
And her husband Elkanah said unto her, Do as it seemeth right unto you, but not till thou hast taken him from the breast; only may Jehovah do as he hath said. So the woman, in readiness gave her son milk till he was old enough to be taken away from the bosom.
And he said unto him, What is thy name, that, if thy word shall come to pass, we may honor thee?
He had a son, whose name was Saul, an impressive young man; and there was not among the children of Israel a better person than he. From his shoulders and upward he was taller than any of the people.
where your fathers tempted me by proving me, and saw my works to forty years.
The Lord be merciful unto me, that I extend not my hand upon the Lord's anointed. But now take the spear, which is at his head, and the cup of water, and let us go.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad.
When ye go, ye shall come into a people of good courage, and the land large on both hands, for God will deliver it into your hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the land.'
Seeing then that shall abide that some are to enter into it, and they, to whom it was first preached entered not because of disobedience;
Then the Philistines came up and encamped in Judah, and they outran Lehi.
And the congregation send there twelve thousand men of the sons of valor, and command them, saying, Get thee hence, and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, even the women and the little ones.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand ye in the Lord, beloved.
therefore the priests of Dagon, and all they that were come into the house of Dagon, tread not on the threshold of Dagon, in Ashdod, until this day.
He supposing that she was taking her rest, said unto her, Arise, and let us be going: But as she made no answer, perceiving she was dead, he took her up; and laid her upon his ass, and returned to his house.
And Michal Saul's daughter loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And Saul said, Then say unto David, The king hath rejected any bride-price, but only for the foreskin of a hundred Philistines so that the king may be too strong for his enemies. But it was in Saul's mind that David might come unto his end by the hand of the Philistines.
Not that I seek gift, but I seek fruit abounding to thy sake,
but the Amorites would dwell in mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim. Yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became subject to taskwork.
And he went every year about to Beth-el and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and he judged Israel in the aforesaid places.
Nay, my sons, for it is no good report that I hear; ye make Jehovah's people transgress.
So that we may boldly say, Jehovah will help me; and I will not be afraid; What man shall do unto me.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's youngest brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
But the men would not hearken unto him, so the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and abuse her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to fountain, they let her go.
And the Galaadites made the fords of the Jordan, whereby Ephraim was to return. And when any one of the number of Ephraim came thither in the away, and said, I beseech you let me pass, the Galaadites said unto him, Art thou not an Ephraimite? If he said, I am not:
So the three bands all cried blast with their horns, and when the vessels had been broken, they took the flaming branches in their left hands, and the horns in their right hands ready for blowing, crying out, For Jehovah and for Gideon.
For as Jehovah liveth, who saveth Israel, though it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die." But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people and what they say unto you: they have not been turned away from you, but they shall be turned away from me, not willing me to be king over them.
And they sat down together, and did eat and drink. And the father of the damsel, said unto his son in law: I beseech thee to abide here to-day and let us make merry together.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father surely knoweth that I have found favor in thy sight: and he said, Let not Jonathan know this, Lest he be grieved; howbeit as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a pulpit between me and death.
And it came to pass in the swift of Abiathar son of Ahimelech unto David, to Keilah, an ephod came down in his hand.
And Saul and all the people that were with him, came together, and went forward to the war: and every man's sword was changed towards the man at his side, and there was a very great noise.
Which we have as an anchor of the soul, sure and fast, and which entereth in even within the veil;
I speak not as it were for want. For I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, to be content therewith.
and gather themselves unto him do every man in distress, and every man that hath the taskmaster. and every man bitter in soul, and he is over them for head, and there are with him about four hundred men.
[Let your] behavior without love of money, satisfied with present circumstances; for he said, I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.
So Jehovah made Israel safe that day; and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land into my place.
And Jahel went forth to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Come in unto me, my lord, come in, fear not. And he went in unto her, tent, and being covered by her with a garment:
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went on beat down one another.
For having been try himself, he is able to help others when they are proved:
how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And he said unto him, Far be it! thou shalt not die. behold, my father shall not do anything great or small and doth not uncover mine ear, and wherefore doth my father hide from me this thing? this is not.'
who through faith overcome kingdoms, accomplished justice, obtained what was promised, shut the mouth of lions,
Then David said, "Do not do so, my brethren, and that which Jehovah hath given unto us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the army that came unto us into our hand.
And when the child was gone, David rose out of his place, which was toward the south, and fell on his face to the earth, worshipped thrice: and straightway kissed themselves, they wept together, but David more.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, the multitude shall fade away, And it departed, and are beaten down.
Saul watched David from that day and forward.
And above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy-seat, about which it is not now possible to speak in detail.
then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, it shall be Yahweh's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering."
concerning instead only to eat and to drink, and diverse washings, ordinances of outward things laid until the time of setting things right.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech;
And he took a lad of the men of Soccoth: and he asked him the names of the princes and elders of Soccoth, and he described unto him seventy and seven men.
When Ehud, had made an end of presenting the tribute, he sent away the people that bare the tribute.
And the Philistine, said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine, cursed David by his gods.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah after the death of Ehud,
And they said, "We will most gladly spend them," and they spread out a garment, and every one cast there a ring of his spoils.
And the kine took the straight way, by the way to Beth-shemesh; they went by the highway, not turn aside to the right hand or to the left, and the sound of their voices was plain upon the way: and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the edge of Beth-shemesh.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Beth-el, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even; then they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And they said, "Look, the annual feast of Jehovah is in Shiloh, which is to the north of Beth-el, east of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and south of Lebonah.
whose end is destruction, whose God is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, they that think upon earthly things.
And she called the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.
Saul builded an altar unto Jehovah. This was the first altar that he built unto Jehovah.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are giving way before us, as at first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee and get them away from the city, into the paths.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb as Moses commanded him, and took the land of the three sons of Anak: drive them out from there.
And he commanded the men whom he sent, saying, This is the thing that ye shall say unto all the men of Israel, Hath ever an be as a been done from the day when the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day? Consider it, turning it over in your minds, and give What thinkest it.
Then said Saul unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me so, and sent away mine enemy: that he is yet escape? And Michal answered Saul, And he said unto me, Let me go: why should I kill thee?
and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron stood before it in those days; that thou saying, "Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease?" Jehovah said, "Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver him into thy hand."
But the children of ungodliness said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no tribute. But he held his peace.
And Samson said unto them, Let me now open a dark saying unto you: if ye clearly declare it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find out, then I will give you thirty shirts, and thirty changes of raiment.
holding a golden censer; and the ark of the covenant covered about on every part with gold, in which was a golden pot that had manna, and the rod of Aaron that had blossomed, and the tables of the testament.
Let thy gentleness be made known to all the people: The Lord is at hand.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went out to war: and Jehovah delivered Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia, into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushanrishathaim.
And David came to the two hundred men that were too faint to go after David, and whom they cause to abide at the brook of Besor, and they went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him, and David approacheth unto the people, and asked them of their welfare.
And Barak said unto her, If ye will go with me then I will go; but if ye will not go with me I will not go.
And we may say that in Abraham, even Levi, that hath a right to take the tenth part, gave it;
And she called the lad Ichabod, saying, "The glory is departed from Israel," referring to the take of the ark of God and concerning her father-in-law and husband.
And she said, "The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of God was captured."
And she said unto him, "My father, thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah; do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of your mouth, because Jehovah hath taken vengeance for you on your enemies, even upon the children of Ammon."
And ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his maid-servant, king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother;)
And on the morrow Saul laid the people in three divisions. Then they came into the midst of the camp at the early morning watch, and smote down the children of Ammon until the heat of the day; And it came to pass that the rest were scattered so that no two among them remained together.
And he turned from him to another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.
and David runneth and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and will draw it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off with it his head; and the Philistines see that their mighty dead, and flee.
Because his heart was with you all, and he was greatly troubled because ye heard that he was sick:
And the princes in Issachar were with Deborah; And Issachar, like Barak; They were sent into the valley at his feet. In the courses of Reuben there were great resolves of heart.
But God clave an hollow place that was in the jaw, and there came water thereout; and when he had drunken, his spirit returned, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof Enhakkore, which is in Lehi unto this day.
For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holy words.
Then Samson went down to the woman, and made a feast there, as was the way among young men.
And by faith he kept the passover and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the first-born might not touch them.
also to appoint for himself rulers of thousands, and heads of fifties; also to plow his plowing, and to reap his reaping; and to make instruments of his war, and instruments of his charioteer.
Now Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for I will certainly know not that the evil hath been determined by my father to come upon thee, and I will not declare it unto thee.'
holding forth the word of life unto my glory in the day of Christ, because I have not run in vain, nor labored in vain.
And Jephthah came to Mizpeh unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances. and she was his only child; by her, he had neither son nor daughter.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah kept in the land for the purpose of trial, Israel by them, all they that had not known, all the Wars of Canaan;
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fought against the Philistines.
for I am pressed by the two, having the desire to depart, and to be with Christ, for it is far better,
thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in subjecting all things to him, he hath left nothing unsubject unto him. But now we see not yet all things subjected to *him*,
Now Jonathan said unto David, What doth thy soul say? and I did it for thee.'
And he took Agag the king of Amalek alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears:
I will raise me up a faithful priest, that will do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind. I will build him a sure house; and he will walk before my anointed for ever.
David took these words sore and felt sore threatened by Achish the king of Gath;
And the angel of Jehovah putteth forth the end of the staff that in his hand, and touched the flesh, and against the unleavened bread, and the fire went up out of the rock and consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread and the angel of Jehovah went from his eyes.
for nothing therefore anxious, but in everything by prayer, and by supplication, with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known unto God;
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And behold, my father, yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand. For in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew thee not, know and see that there can be no evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; thou shalt lie in wait for my life to take it.
And I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be comforted; when I know the things concerning you.
Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see how it shall go with me.
And I shoot three of the arrows at the side, sending out for myself at a mark:
And he judged Israel twenty and three years: and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
Let thy moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand.
Now where there is a remission of these things, there is no more a meal-offering for sin.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up a saviour, unto the children of Israel, who saved them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
So I ought to take thought for you all after this manner, because I have you in my heart; for in my bonds, and in my oppositions before the judges in support of the gospel, making known that it is true, ye know all your part with me in grace.
Ye multiply not ye speak haughtily The old saying went out from thy mouth, For a God of knowledge Jehovah, And by him deeds are weight.
make you perfect in every good work to do his will, doing in you that which is well-pleasing before him, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
The house of Joseph also went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took a joyful noise the destruction of your goods, knowing in yourselves, that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance.
As they made their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, certain base fellows, compassed the house, beating at the door, and they spake unto the master of the house, the old man, saying, "Bring out the man that came into thy house, that we may lie carnally with him!"
For a covenant of force when men are dead, since it is in no wise of force while the testator is alive.)
In those days was there no king in Israel; there was a man that is a Levite, that dwelt a sojourner in the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim. And he took him a concubine of Beth-lehem-judah.
Thus was Midian subdued before the children of Israel, that they lifted up their heads no more. And the country was in quietness forty years in the days of Gideon.
Now the appointed sign between the men of Israel and the liers-in-wait was that they should make a great cloud of smoke rise up out of the city.
And Samuel rose up early to meet Saul in the morning, and it was told Samuel, saying, `Saul shall come in unto Carmel, and lo, he setteth up to himself the pillar, and went round, and passed over, and went down to Gilgal.'
The Levite, the husband of the slew woman, answered and said, "I came to Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge night.
So all of Benjamin that fell on that day were five and twenty thousand sword-wielding men; all these were mighty men of valor.
Now the God of peace, who brought up from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, by the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And he asked them, "Why do ye all these things that I am hearing, namely, your evil dealings with all this people?
Now if ye have done well, and perfect in appointing Abimelech king over you, and have dealt well with Jerobaal, and with his house, and have made a commodious return for the benefits of him, who fought for you,
And when these signs come unto you, see that thou take the chance which is offered you; for God is with you.
And another went toward Beth-horon: and another went by the hill exceedingly filled with the valley of Zeboiim, by the way of the wilderness.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my sitar, and burn incense unto me, and to wear the ephod before me: and I gave to thy father's house of all the sacrifices of the children of Israel.
They therefore not of the sons of Levi that receive the priest's office have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though these are come out of the body of Abraham,
Therefore said I, The Philistines shall now come down upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah: I forced myself therefore, and offered a burnt-offering.
And Gideon said unto them, I should desire a request of you: give me every man the ear-rings of his themselves; but every man for they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.
And it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath, and he hath not again any more to seek him.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, that I also may be delight up when I know how ye do.
The Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
And the Ashdodites, rose up early on the morrow, and, behold, Dagon is fallen upon the face to the earth, before the ark of Jehovah; and they take Dagon, and put it back to its place.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: Then Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
As the ancient proverb saith, 'From the wicked, wickedness goeth out,' but my hand shall not be against you.
and with blood almost all things are purified according to the law, and besides blood-shedding remission shall not come.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent and with earth upon his head.
With his own company, assaulting and watch upon the city: while the two other companies chased the enemies that were scattered about the field.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah:
"Go down before me to Gilgal: and behold, I will come down unto you, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice a sacrifice of peace-offerings. Wait seven days, until I come unto you, and show thee what thou shalt do."
having become so much better than the messengers, as he did inherit a most excellent name than they.
If one man sin against another, God will judge him: but if a man sin against Jehovah, who made intercession for him?" Notwithstanding, they didn't hearken to the voice of their father, because Jehovah had said he would destroy them.
Behold, here I; testify against me, over against Jehovah, and before his anointed; whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken, and whom have I oppressed, whom have I bruised, and of whose hand have I taken a ransom, and hide mine eyes with it? and I restore to you.'
And by faith they did pass through the Red Sea as through dry land, which the Egyptians having received a temptation of, were swallowed up;
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of Midian: and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Gilead rested beyond the Jordan, and Dan applied himself to ships; Asher dwelt upon the sea-shore havens. and dwelt in the
There is an old saying, From the godless man shall evil: but my hand shall never be lifted up against thee.
Saul therefore sent his keepeth to David's house to watch him, that he might be slain in the morning. And when Michal David's wife had told him this, saying, Except thou save thyself this night, to-morrow thou wilt die,
David and the people that were with him, lifted up their voice, and wept till they had no more tears.
So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;
And all the men of Israel rose up from their places and took up ordering in Baal, Tamar; and the ambush of Israel charged from their places, of late, Which of Gibeah.
and have seen, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and each man catch his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And they send and gather all the princes of the Philistines, and say, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and they returned to its place, and it shall not kill us, and our people;' for there shall be a deadly destruction throughout all the city, very glorious hath the hand of God been there,
And he said unto the men of Succoth, give, I pray you, loaves of bread to the people that follow me; for they are faint; and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna; kings of Midian.
watching lest [there be] any him that is void the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble it, and many be defiled by it;
And that man went up out of his city from time to time to bow himself, and to sacrifice, before Jehovah of hosts, in Shiloh, and there two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests unto Jehovah.
and the Philistine, said unto David, Come unto me, and I give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and for the beasts of the field.'
Now we will do this, if God us.
Then the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, saying,
by faith the walls of Jericho did fall, having been compassed for seven days;
And he spake also to the men of Penuel, saying, "When I come again in peace, will I break down this tower."
Ask thy young men, and they declare unto thee, and the young men find favor in thy sight, for on a good day we have come; give, I pray thee, that which thy hand findeth, to thy servants, and to thy son, to David.'
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and don't spare them; but kill both man and woman, infant and sucking child, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.'"
lest [there be] any fornicator, nor profane person, as Esau, that for one flour sold his birthright;
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
For I have no man so of the same mind that were with unfeigned affection is careful for you.
Then said Zebul unto him, Where is now thy mouth, wherewith thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast destroyed; and go out, I pray now, and fight with them.
But over the Ashurites, dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, because they did not drive them out.
And by faith Moses, when he had become great, refused to be called son of Pharaoh's daughter;
And Jephthah voweth a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt at all give the children of Ammon into my hand,
And after he had gone, his servants came and saw that the doors of the upper chamber were locked. And they said, "Surely he covereth his feet in the upper room."
Wherefore also there were born of one, and that of one become dead, even as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the ten thousands of the sand which is by the sea-shore.
Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and let us spoil them until the morning; and let us not leave alive a man among them." So they said, "Do all that is good in thine eyes." But the priest said, "Let us come near to God here."
And he said unto them, What could I have done like to that which thou hast done? Is not one cluster of grapes of Ephraim better than the vintages of Abiezer?
But certain worthless fellows said, "How could this man save us?" They despised him, and brought him no present. But he held his peace.
And David said unto Achish, If now I have found favor in thy sight, let them give me a place in some city in the field, That I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
But ye have done well in communion of my affliction.
And it shall be, that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, ye shall rise up early, and leap upon the city; Behold, when he and the people that are with him come out against you, then canst thou do unto them as ye shall find occasion."
And Gideon said unto him, Ah my Lord, if Jehovah be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where are all his signs that our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah brought us up out of Egypt? And now Jehovah hath cast us off, and given us into the hand of Midian.
And to them that were in Hormah, and in Bor-ashan and in Athach;
These are the nations that Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them (that is, to prove all them that had not that knoweth how to any of the Wars of Canaan,
Now therefore, what hast thou at hand? Give me five loaves of bread or whatsoever is here."
And he asked her water and she gave him milk, and offered him butter in a platter fit for princes.
In times past the word of God came unto our fathers through the prophets, in divers parts and in divers ways;
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, "Go up with me into my allotment, and let us fight against the Canaanites; then I too will go with you into your allotment." and Simeon went with him.
And he entered into the land of the Hittites, building a city there and and called it Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah. Wherefore they called this place Camp of Dan unto this day; it is west of Kiriath-jearim;
Therefore Saul said, "I have sinned. Turn again, my son David; for I will no more do thee hurt, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly."
and he turned, they fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness: and on the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who, pushing on hard after them to Geba, put to death two thousand more.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, The Lord be witness amongst us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And the priest answered David and said, "There is special bread here at hand; there is only showbread, but only if the young men have kept themselves from women."
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant together, because of Jonathan's love for David.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
So Christ also did not glorify himself, that he might be made a high priest: but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see thee.
And when he had made an end to offer the with it, he sent away the people that bare the present.
And when all who knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied with the prophets, then the people said one to another, "What is this that is come to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?"
but thou shalt also not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever; no, not when Jehovah hath cut off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth."
And she called his name of Ichabod, saying, The glory is gone from Israel: because the ark of God was taken and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And David took the whole of the flock, and of the herd, they have led on before these cattle, and they say, This David's spoil.'
Then the Philistines were gathered together and came and encamped in Shunem, so Saul assembled all Israel; and they encamped in Gilboa.
For they could not endure what was commanded: "If even a beast toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned."
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but unto disobedience, then the hand of Jehovah shall be against thee, and against thy king for your destruction, as it was against your fathers.
Now the hand of Jehovah was heavy against the Ashdodites, and he destroyed them and smote them with emerods, and both in Ashdod, and its borders.
So the whole army cut down each one branch for himself and followed Abimelech, and they put them against the vault and set the vault on fire upon them within, so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died, about a thousand men and women.
And the men of the city say unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, and he died, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the Asherah which by it.'
And as they went down in the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul: Speak unto the servant to go before us, and pass on: and stand thou still a while, that I may tell thee the word of Jehovah.
And ye shall take the ark of Jehovah, and put it upon the cart, and the vessels of gold, which ye have returned unto him, a trespass-offering for that wherein ye put in a coffer upon the side, and have sent it away, and it went.
According to all their works, they have done from the day that I brought them forth out of Egypt even unto this day, as they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
Samson said unto them, "If ye behave like this, surely I will take vengeance upon thee, and after that I will cease."
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And when he came, behold, Eli sat upon a seat by the way side watching: for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
Remember your heads, men that spake unto you the word of God, and considering the office of their conduct, imitate their faith.
And he went thither to Naioth by Ramah; and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth by Ramah:
Rejoice in the Lord alway; again, I say, rejoice.
But a man came to Saul saying, Make haste and come; for the Philistines have laid his hand upon the land.
And David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath;
saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee;
And the children of Benjamin came at that time, and wives were given them of the daughters of Jabesh Gilead, but they found no others, whom they might give in like manner.
and turn ye not aside; for [it would be] after vain things which cannot profit nor deliver: for they are vain.
And he took the people, and divided them into three bands, and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people were come forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
Now Jonathan said unto David, "Come, let us go out to the field." And they two went out to the field.
When I blew the trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon.
And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
And Samson went down, and his father and his mother, to Timnathah; and they came to the vineyards of Timnathah. And behold, a young lion roared upon him;
To whom then did he swear, that they should not enter into his rest: but to them that were incredulous?
And she was sore troubled, so she prayed unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideoni, and be sounded the trumpet and called together the house of Abiezer, to follow him.
Now between the passeth where Jonathan sought to go over to the garrison of the Philistines there was a point of rock on the one side, and the point of rock on the other. And the name of the one was Bozez and the name of the other was Seneh.
When Samuel hath seen Saul, then hath Jehovah answered him, Behold, the man of whom I have spoken unto thee; this shall refrain my people.'
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah even thy going in unto Shur that is before Egypt,
So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim saying, "The Philistines have carried the ark of Jehovah; come down and take it up to yourselves."
And Midian and Amalek and all the children of the east lay along in the valley as locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number: as the sand upon the sea-shore in multitude.
that ye may not be sluggish, but ye imitators of them that inherit the promises through faith and patience.
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews here? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no crime in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
But I have all things, and abound; I am filled, they received of Epaphroditus the things that came forth from thee, an odor of a sweet savor, an acceptable and well-pleasing sacrifice unto God.
And the thorn said unto the trees, If it is of a truth your desire to make me thy king, then come and put your faith in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of the acacia, and it shall devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And he asked him, What is the word that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I beseech thee hide it not from me: may God do so to thee, and add so and so, if thou hide from me one word of all that were said unto thee.
only let your behavior be worthy of the gospel: that, whether I come and see you, or, being absent may hear of you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one accord helping together for the faith of the gospel.
But if ye are without instruction, wherein all legitimate sons are become participants, then are ye strange and not sons.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a chosen young man, and a goodly: and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier man than he: from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
therefore let us go forth to him without the camp, bearing the reproach;
"When long hair hangeth loosely in Israel, when the people offer willingly themselves, bless ye Jehovah:
But Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, took in her hand a pin and a hammer and she went softly to him and drove the nail into his temple, and it went through into the ground; he was fast asleep since he was weak-handed, and he died.
He passed through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they didn't find them. And they passed through the land of Shaalim, and there they weren't there; and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they didn't find them.
For all seek their own things, not the things of Jesus Christ.
Be free from the love of money, content with such things as thou hast, for he hath said, "I shall in no wise leave thee, neither will I in any wise forsake you."
Thus God recompensed the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, in killing his seventy brethren;
When Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, "Come up this once, for he hath told me all his heart." Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought the money in their hand.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, till thou come unto Gaza, and left no maintenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Saul said, Let God's do so to me, and more also, if death is not thy lot, Jonathan;
When they were over against the house, Micah and the men that were in the houses that saw the house of Micah cried out, and overtook the children of Dan.
Then Micah said unto him, Make thy nest with me, and be a father and a priest unto me, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver, a year and thy raiment and food.
Now some of the Hebrews were gone over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; but as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
If a man sin against a man, then hath God judged him: but if against Jehovah a man sin, that shall pray for him?' and they would not hearken unto the voice of their father, though Jehovah delight to slay them.
and ye shall rise against the house of my father this day, and slay his sons, seventy persons, on one stone, and cause Abimelech the son of his handmaid to reign over the masters of Shechem, because he thy brother is
And David said to his men, Before Jehovah; never let it be said that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the man of the Lord's anointed, for the Lord's anointed upon him.
And there went out a man of the duellists from the camp of the Philistines, Goliath his name, from Gath; his height six cubits and a span,
She fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" He awaked out of his sleep, and plucked the pin of a beam, the web.
And Samson said unto them, "This time, as far as the Philistines are concerned, when I do something evil I am without blame."
But I am straitened between two; having a desire to be dissolved and to be with Christ, a thing by far alike good.
That thy pride in me may be multiplied in Christ Jesus through my when I was present with you again.
And the angel of Jehovah came before his eyes, and said unto him, Jehovah is with you, O man of war.
And Manoah said, Now when thy words be fulfilled, what is to be the rule for the child and what shall be his work?
Now Jonathan hath not heard of his father's adjure the people, and putteth forth the end of the rod, which in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and brought back his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes see:
for, behold, ye shall conceive, and bring forth a son, No razor shall come upon his head; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb. He shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines."
For ye have need of patience, that after that ye have done the will of God, ye may receive what was spoken.
But Saul said unto David, "You shall not be able to go against this Philistine, to fight with him, because ye are only young, whereas he hath been a man of war since his childhood!"
for he was also sick close to death, but God had mercy on him, and not indeed on him only, but also upon me, that I should not have sorrow upon sorrow.
She let him down through the chimney. And he went and fled away and escaped.
For ye have need of patience Lest haply, when he hath done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith Jehovah. And again, Jehovah will judge his people.
So Achish gave him Ziklag, on that day: (Therefore, Ziklag, hath belonged to the kings of Judah until this day.)
He to whom he spake, answered and said, This is nothing else but the sword of Gedeon the son of Joash a man of Israel. For Jehovah hath delivered Midian, and all their host into his hand.
able to be gentle to them ignorant and going astray, since himself also is compassed with infirmity;
and their sins and their iniquities I will never remember no more.
Then Elkanah her husband said unto her, Anna, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? And why dost thou afflict thy heart? Am not I better to thee than ten train?
And the anger of Jehovah was angry with them, delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, and of the children of Ammon.
And it came to pass, when Samuel aged, that he maketh his sons judges to be over Israel.
And they took that which Micah had made, and his priest, and came to Laish. to a people living quietly and without thought of the evil, and they smote them with the sword, and all the burning down their city.
And by faith Moses, being born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child beautiful; and they feared not the injunction of the king.
And David said unto him, Canst thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me of God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.
Then the Philistines went up into the land of Judah, encamped in the place which afterward was called Lechi, that is, the Jawbone, where their host was came abroad,
the Amorites were determined to live in Har-heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, But the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon them, and they became subjected to taskwork.
and trumpet's sound, and voice of words; which they that heard, excusing themselves, swerved word being spake unto to them any more:
And David arose, and he passed over with the six hundred men that were with him unto Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath;
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came unto us into our hand.
And David took Saul's sword and put the girdle of him over the molten coat, and was not able to go forward; for he was not used to them. And David said unto Saul, It is not possible for me to go out with these, for I am not used to them. So David took them off.
Israel set liers-in-wait round about Gibeah.
And by faith Jacob dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped the top of his rod.
And he said, "Peaceably; I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah. Sanctify yourselves therefore, and come with me into the sacrifice." He sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
Naphtali did not take the land of the people of Beth-shemesh or of Beth-anath, driving them out: but he dwelt among the Canaanites in the land; But the people of Beth-shemesh, and Beth-anath, were put to taskwork.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, "Yahweh shall be witness between us. Surely we will do what ye say."
Brethren, I do not think myself to have apprehended. but one thing I do: that forget the things that are behind them; and he stretched forth myself unto them that are before,
And it shall be, when these signs shall come unto thee, thou shalt do as thy hand shall find; for God is with thee.
But I have all, and exceedingly: I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet savor, an offering made acceptable, being wellpleasing unto God.
and carry these ten cheeses to the captain of the thousand, and visit thy brethren to see how they are, and take a pledge of them.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
Then said Saul unto David: Blessed art thou, my son David: and truly doing thou shalt do, and prevailing thou shalt prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And he left them, that he might prove Israel by them, whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses, or not.
Know ye not keep the lands of those whom Chemosh the god sendeth out from before thee? so we will keep all the lands of those whom Jehovah our God sendeth out from before us.
of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in deserts; mountains, in the caves and the clefts of the earth.
And he said unto him, "Far from it; thou shalt not die. Behold, my father doeth nothing either great or small, but that he discloses it to me: wherefore would my father hide this thing from me? It is not so."
and be found in him, not having a righteousness of mine own, that which is of the law, but that which is through faith, in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith;
and Abimelech pursueth him, and he fled from his presence. and many fell down slain even unto the door of the gate.
That which Chemosh thy god causeth thee to possess trimmest thou not inherit it? and all that Jehovah our God hath driven out from our presence, it we do possess.
They also that root is in Amalek came out of Ephraim, after you, Benjamin, among thy peoples. Assyrians, governors come down out of Machir. They that handle the marshal's staff came out of Zebulun, twelve cities.
So Samuel told him all the words and did not conceal anything from him. And he said, "He is Jehovah, he shall do that which is good in his sight."
And it came to pass, when Israel became strong, that they made the Canaanites to taskwork, and did not utterly drive them out.
And the Amorites would dwell in mount Heres, in Aijalon with in Shaalbim; But the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, and they became subject to taskwork.
And they said, Thou hast not wronged us, nor oppressed us, nor taken ought at any man's hand.
Her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went forth to go his way; and behold, the woman his concubine had fallen down at the door of the house, with her hands upon the threshold.
And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works;
The congregation sent twelve thousand of the mighty men there, and charged them, saying, "Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the little ones.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and an enemy of evil; and so God, thy God, hath put the oil of joy upon thy head more than on the heads of them that are with you.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah even require it at the hand of David's enemies.
And again Saul sent to see David, saying, Bring him to me in the bed, that he may be slain.
By faith, Abraham, being made trial, offered up Isaac. Yea, he that had received the promises was offering up his only begotten son;
and he smote them from Aroer, and unto thy going in to Minnith, twenty cities, and unto the meadow of the vineyards with a very great plague. and the children of Ammon are humbled at the presence of the children of Israel.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the lad ministered unto Jehovah in the presence of Eli the priest.
Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two vessels of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of dry figs, and laid them upon asses,
For if the blood of goats, and bullocks, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling them that are defiled sanctify to the cleanness of the flesh:
But go on doing good, and give unto others, for God is after the heart of such offerings.
David called out unto the army and to Abner the son of Ner, "Will ye not answer, Abner?" And Abner answered and said, "Who art thou, that thou call unto the king?"
It was right for us to have such a high priest, one that is holy and without evil, not guilty, having no part with sinners, and made great above the heavens;
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, he talked with Saul upon the house-top.
and it was so. And when he rose up early on the morrow, he pressed the fleece together, and drained dew out of the ones among a bowl-full of water.
Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped, and David saw the place where Saul was lying down, as well as Abner the son of Ner, captain of his army. Now Saul was lying in the tents in, and the army was that encamp round about him.
Samson said unto them, "This time I will be unreproveable in the case of the Philistines, when I harm them."
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me was budded, again; wherein ye were also heed to thyself, but ye lacked opportunity.
Then Achish gave him Ziklag, that day: wherefore Ziklag, pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
For Jehovah executeth vengeance on his loved ones: every one whom he taketh as his son hath experience of his rod.
These all died in faith apart from receiving the promises; but beholding them from a space and welcomed them, and admitting that they were sojourners and pilgrims, upon the earth.
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to Yahweh's house. Her rival provoked her; therefore she wept, and didn't eat.
that ye may become perfect and innocent. children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom thou art seen as lights in the world,
Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, of which two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in the mount of Beth-el, and one thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. And he sent the rest of the people unto their tents.
And all the men of Israel said unto Gedeon: Rule thou thou over us and thy son, and thy son's son: because thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Madian.
Deal kindly then with thy servant; for thou hast brought me thy servant into the covenant of Jehovah with thee. But if there be iniquity in me, do thou kill me, and bring me not in to thy father.
And it came to pass, when Gideon heareth the narration of the dream and the interpretation thereof, that he did obeisance, and returned unto the camp of Israel, and said, Rise ye for Jehovah hath given into thy hand the camp of Midian.'
And he took Agag the king of the Amalekite alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And the spies saw a man come forth out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, the entrance into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And they said one to another, "Who did this thing?" And when they had sought and inquire; and they said, "Gideon son of Jehoash did this thing."
Water he asked even milk she gave; In a lordly platter, she brought near butter.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing. to meet king Saul, with timbrels, with joy, and with triangles.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods. Therefore I will no more deliver thee.
"So let all your enemies perish, Jehovah, but let them that love him be as the sun when it riseth in its strength." And the land had rest forty years.
Now therefore stand and see this great thing which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
Now Jonathan sware again to David, because he loved him; for he loved him as his own soul.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there was none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
For we know him that is saying, Vengeance is mine: I will recompense, saith the Lord;' and again, The Lord shall judge his people;' even
And they took the ark of God into the house of Dagon and put it by the side of Dagon.
And David said to Jonathan, To-morrow is the new moon, and I will not sit with the king at his table: but let me go to a refuge in the country until the even.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Did I take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest and to go up to my altar to make the smoke of the offerings go up and to take up the ephod? Did I give unto your father's family all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel?
And it answered them, Can I leave my sweet wine, and my dainty fruits, and go to be promoted among the other trees?
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
I know both to be humbled; and I have known to abound; in everything and in all things have I been initiated, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want.
And he numbered them in Bezek; and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
For think diligently upon him that endured such oppositions from sinners against himself; that ye be not wearied, fainting in your ears.
For this is the covenant that I will decree with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my laws in their minds and I will write them upon their heart, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Go therefore, I pray you, and use all diligence, And curiously inquire, and consider the place where his foot is and who hath seen him there; for he thinketh of me, that I lie craftily in wait for him.
And they that were full must hire themselves out for bread, but they that are hungry shall become fat. As for the infertile, she shall bear seven, but she that hath many sons, withereth away;
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to be with him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah, and Esthaol.
And he divided the three hundred men into three bands, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers, and lamps within the flagons.
And he inquired of Jehovah, and he answered him not, neither by the dreams, nor by priests, nor by prophets.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And it came to pass the next day that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass, that they that remained were dispersed, and not two of them were left together.
Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
And Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in estate: army against host.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
and he said unto them, What have I done now like unto thee? are not the gleaning of Ephraim better than the harvest of Abi-Ezer?
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew there thirty men, whose garments he took away and gave to them that had declared the riddle. And being sore displeased he went up to his father's house:
And Gideon said unto them, "Let me make a request of you, that each one of you give me a ring from his plunder." of men; They had rings of gold, because they were Ishmaelites.)
And they all came to the house of God in Shiloh, and abiding before him until the even; lifted up their voice, and began to weep and lament, saying,
And all [they of] the land are come into a forest, and there is honey upon the face of the field;
For such a high priest became us, who is holy, innocent. undefiled, separate from sinners, and made above the heavens;
Ye have not come to the mountain which may be handled, and burned with fire, and to a black cloud, and a dark smoke, and a mighty wind,
Of whom it was said, that in Isaac shall thy seed be called.
Abide with me. Don't not, for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life. For ye shall dwell with me."
And the Holy Spirit also is a witness unto us; for after that he had said before,
And when he saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart quaked greatly.
the children of Ammon sent at her feet he went down, he was stretched out; bent at her feet he went down; where he was bowed down, there he went down in death.
Arise therefore in the night with the people that is with thee and he hid in the field;
But Ahimelech answered the king, and said, "And who among all thy servants is as faithful as David? He is the son-in-law of the king that hasteth to safeguard you and is honored in thy house.
where as a forerunner Jesus entered for us, having become a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And when Saul saw how wisely he did, he was afraid of him.
behold, my daughter, the virgin, and his concubine, let me bring them up, I pray you, and humble ye them, and do unto them that which is good in thine eyes, and to this man do not this foolish thing.'
Then said Saul to his servants, Seek ye me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a spirit of a wizard, at En-dor.
and the three eldest sons of Jesse go, they are gone after Saul to battle; and the name of his three sons that are gone into battle Eliab the first-born, and his second Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
and Saul saith unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me with it, lest they come even these uncircumcised and have pierced me, and roll themselves upon me;' and the armorbearer would not; for he is exceedingly afraid, and Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And the me, to Saul at Gibeah, and said, Is not David wait near us in the hill of Hachilah, before the wilderness?
all the valiant men arose, went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of and Shan; and they came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, whose son are ye? And David answered and said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse of Beth-lehem.
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel: and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto you.
For the Lord will not give his people up, because of the glory of his name; for it was the Lord's pleasure to make of thee a people for himself.
The lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men passed on in the hinder part with Achish.
After a while, at the time of the wheat harvest, Samson visited his wife with a young goat: And he said, "I would go to my wife's private room." But her father would not suffer him to enter.
Do they not find? even they divided spoil, A female, two women unto every head, plunder of finger-work for Sisera, plunder of broidered finger-work, Finger-work for a pair of settings, For the necks of the spoil.
And Micaiah gave the estate unto the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
Let them meditate on it, that go upon white asses, and them that are walking on the way.
But David's men said unto him, "Look, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more if we go to Keilah to the battle rows of the Philistines?"
Now therefore deliver us the men, base fellows, which are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And David said unto Achish, "But what have I done? And what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I entered your service unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?"
And the fig saith unto them, Have I ceased from my sweet wine, and my good increase, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
And when Israel had sown, Midian and Amalek, and the rest of the east nations set up;
For when God made a promise unto Abraham, since he could swear by none greater, he sware by himself,
and to Gideon there were seventy sons, coming forth out of his loin, for he had many wives;
And when I blew the trumpet, I and all that are with me, ye also shall blow the trumpets round about the whole camp, and shall say, For Jehovah and for Gideon!
And his brethren and his whole family came down and took him up; and they brought him up and buried him between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the sepulchre of Manoah his father; he judged Israel twenty years.
and the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold, I pray thee, thou barren, and hast not borne; when thou hast conceived, then thou hast borne a son.
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And the congregation sent there twelve thousand men from the people, and they commanded them, saying, "Go, smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, with the edge of the sword, and the women and children.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him before saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that hath befallen the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
All these died according to faith, not having received the promises; but beholding them afar off, and we saluted them, and confessing that they are pilgrims and strangers upon the earth.
And the children of Judah did not make the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem go forth; the Jebusites are yet abiding with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
and to abide in the flesh is more necessary for your sakes,
God honorable, some better thing for us, that they should not be perfected without us.
And after him was Shamgar the son of Beth-anath, which smote of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox goad: and he also delivered Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not turn again with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And the children of Israel drew near to the children of Benjamin on the second day.
Now on the fourth day they rose up early in the morning, and he made ready to go away; but the girl's father said unto his son-in-law, Take a little food to keep up thy strength, and then go on your way.
And the people the princes of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that doeth begin to fight against the Bene-Ammon? he is for head to all the inhabitants of Gilead.'
And as for thy she-asses that were lost three days ago, do not have regard for them, because they have been found. For whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not for you and for all the house of your father?"
and call unto the children of Dan, and they turned about their faces, and say unto Micah, What aileth thee that thou hast been called together?'
thus the Christ also, having been once offered to bear the sins of many, shall appear unto those that look for him the second time without sin for salvation.
I press toward the mark for the righteous, the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
Now Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the tip of the staff that was in his hand, and he touched the flesh and the unleavened bread, and fire went up from the rock and consumed the food and the unleavened bread. And the angel of Jehovah went from his sight.
And they run and bring him thence, and he bestowed himself in the midst of the people, and he is higher than any of the people from his shoulder and upward.
There was a certain man from Zorah, out of the tribe of the Danites that could set and his name was Manoah; his wife was be barren, and did not bear children.
And Samson said unto them, This time I am perfect toward the Philistines, although I do them harm.
And about him we have many words to say, and hard to interpret, seeing thou art become dull of hearing,
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old: and that which wasteth and waxeth old is ready to be done away.
So they sat down, did eat and drink, both of them together. And the young lady's father said unto the man, "Please be pleased to tarry all night, and let your heart be merry."
And he said unto them, "Watch me and do the same. When I come to the edge of the camp, do as I do.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of Jehovah; come down, fetch it up to you.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon, and he blew the trumpet, and the Abi-ezrites were gathered after him.
And she said, Honor is departed from Israel, for the ark of God hath been taken.'
and the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forget Jehovah their God, and serve the Baalim and the shrines.
And they waited so long they became blush because he did not open the doors of the upper chamber. So they took the key and opened the doors, and there their lord was lying on the ground dead.
Now the number of them that took up the water with their tongues was three hundred oxen. all the rest of the people kneeled down to the water.
And Jehovah raised up captains, and they delivered them out of the hand of their plunderers.
How shall we provide wives for them that remain, since we have sworn by Jehovah that we will not give them of our daughters unto wives?"
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin, their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
Salute ye every one that is godly in Christ Jesus.
Behold, ye are all sons of Israel; give hither thy counsel and counsel.
And the Philistines were standing on the hill on the one side, and the host of Israel was standing on the hill on the other side with the valley between them.
As the parable of the elders saith, 'Out of the wicked cometh wickedness;' but my hand shall not be upon thee.
When therefore these signs shall befall thee, do whatsoever thy hand shall find, for Jehovah is with thee.
And Samson said unto her, If they bind me with seven green withs which have not been dried up, then I have been weak, and have been as one of the man race.'
In those days was there no king in Israel and in those days the Danites were looking for an inheritance for themselves, to be their dwelling-place: for hitherto no distribution of land had been made to them among the tribes of Israel.
And the men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to distress casualties on about thirty men of Israel because they thought, "They shall be utterly put to the worse before us, as in the first battle."
Then about a month after this, Nahash the Ammonite came up and set the battle in array against this Jabesh-gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make your peace with us, and we will serve thee.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should have slain David. But Jonathan the son of Saul loved David exceedingly.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
And David said unto Saul, Why do ye give ear unto them that say that it is my desire to do you evil!
When thou have dwelt three days, go down quickly and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when this to sanctify, and abide by the stone Ezel.
And all the children of Israel go up, even all the people, and come in unto Beth-el; and weep, and sit there before Jehovah, and fast on that day until the even; and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua a Bethsamite, and stood there. And there was a great stone, and they cut in pieces the wood of the cart, and laid the kine upon it a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, "Do not let anyone's heart fail concerning him! Thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine."
There remaineth therefore a day of solemn rest for the people of God.
So the priest delivered him hallowed bread: for there was no bread there but the showbread, that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
Now Jonathan took off the robe he had on and gave it unto David, with all his chief roast even to his sword and his bow and the girdle of his body.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfected; be thus minded: but if in anything thou be otherwise minded, this also God will reveal unto you.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.
Now see how great this man was, to whom our father Abraham gave a tenth part of that which he had gathered in the battle.
For the Christ is not entered into holy places made with hand, figures of the truth, but into heaven itself, now to appear before the face of God for us:
Behold, this day have thine eyes seen how that Jehovah hath given thee this day into my hand in the cave, and said to slay thee, and [mine eye] will have pity upon thee, and I say, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for the anointed of Jehovah he it.
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If it be that Jehovah hath stirred you up against me, let him accept an oblation. but if it is the children of men, they are cursed before Jehovah; for they have driven me out this day, that I shouldn't cleave unto Yahweh's inheritance, saying, 'Go, serve other gods!'
yea indeed, and I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is more than all: for whom I have borne the loss of all things, and to me they are less than nothing, so that I may have Christ as my reward,
And when the men of Israel turned back in the battle, Benjamin began to smite, slaying of the men of Israel about thirty men; for they said, Surely they are wholly put to the worse before us, as in the first battle.
But now this shall be the thing which we will do to Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it;
And he took a couple of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent through all the border of Israel, by the hand of the messengers, saying, He that is not coming out after Saul and after Samuel thus shall it be done unto his oxen;' and the fear of Jehovah fell on the people, and they come out as one man.
And Achish believed on what David said, saying, He hath made himself hated of all his people Israel, and he shall be my servant for ever.
And Samson, cried unto Jehovah, said, O Lord Jehovah, have me now in mind, and do make me strong only this once, O God, so that I may take one last avenged on the Philistines for my two eyes.
The wise ones, her princesses, answer her, Yea, she returneth her words unto follow;
And they buried him within the border of his inheritance in Timnah-heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim north of the mountain of Gaash.
For if the word, spoken by angels, became stedfast, and every transgression and transgression received a just recompense of reward:
to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men used to stay.
and the sons of Benjamin are gathered out of the cities to Gibeah, to go forth to war with the children of Israel.
And Samuel said to all the people: Surely ye see him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. And all the people cried and said, Long live the king.
And by faith Joseph, when his end was near, said that the children of Israel would go out of Egypt; and gave charge concerning his bones.
Caleb said, "I will give Achsah my daughter to wife unto the man that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it."
dwell with me; fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; for a charge thou with me.'
A man make void the law of Moses, died without any mercy under two or three witnesses:
Zebah and Zalmunna; fled: and he pursued them. And he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna; and discomfited all the host.
Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings in the ears of the people, and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines, was four months.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
So his mother's family said all this about him in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem; and they were rebellious unto Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Hannah, answered him and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman, whose spirit is broken with mourning: I have not taken wine nor strong drink, but I have been opened my heart before Jehovah.
And in this confidence I know that I will go on, yea, and go with you all, for your growth and joy in the faith;
For he hath said haply of the seventh thus, And God rested on the seventh day from all his works:
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Entice him, and see wherein his great strength should lie, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will give thee each one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron. That the name of Hebron beforetime that was Kiriath-arba; Arba.) and they smote Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai.
Then said all the trees unto feel the Come thou, and reign over us.
And the people said unto Saul, Doth Jonathan die that wrought this great salvation in Israel? for a profanation! As Jehovah liveth, if there falleth from the hair of his head to the earth, for with God he hath wrought this day;' and the people deliver Jonathan, and he hath not died.
fulfil my joy, that ye may think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, supposing that one thing;
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Achish the king of Gath;
And David's two wives were taken away captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a manner common, yea, though it were hallowed this day in the vessel.
And now, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath dispossessed the Amorites from the presence of his people Israel, and thou wouldest possess it.
And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of the valiantest, and charged them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.
Go, I pray you, make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his track is, that hath seen him there; for it is told me that he dealeth very subtilly.
When the Philistine, arose, and walked and drew near to meet David, David hasted, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.
And Jephthah passeth over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them, and Jehovah delivered them into his hand,
And they send the ark of God to Ekron, and it came to pass, at the coming in of the ark of God to Ekron, that the Ekronites cry, saying, They have brought round unto us the ark of the God of Israel, to kill us, and our people.'
And he spake also unto the men of Penuel, saying, When I come again in peace, will I break down this tower.
Now these are the gold emerods, which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering, unto Jehovah: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron.
As also a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten them his spirit returned, and he was refreshed; for he had not eaten bread, nor drink water three days and three nights.
But what things were gain unto me, Those I counted loss for Christ.
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcrafts, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ,
holding to the word of life, for a spring of pride unto me in the day of Christ, that I did not run in vain or labor in vain.
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.
Every wise her princesses answer her; she also answereth the matter follow;
This thing is not good that thou hast done. As Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept thy master, the Lord's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his bolster.
And every year Eli gave Elkanah and his wife and said, The Lord give you seed by this woman in exchange for the child thou hast given Jehovah. And they returned to their house.
And it was told Saul by some, saying, Behold, David is in Najoth in Ramatha.
And all the wicked men, and of fellow, of those that had gone with David, answered and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife, and his children, that they may lead away and depart.
And let us think about how to stir up one another, to love and good works,
And as this is not without the taking of an oath
And all Israel have heard, saying, `Saul smote the garrison of the Philistines,' and also, `Israel hath abhorred of the Philistines;' and the people are called after Saul to Gilgal.
And Abimelech is prince over Israel three years,
And David said unto Saul, "Why hear ye men's words, saying, 'Behold, David seeketh to hurt you?'
and the Philistines call for priests and for diviners, saying, What shall we do unto the ark of Jehovah? let us know wherewith we send it to its place?'
Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no power to weep.
For if the word which was spoken through angels was fast, and every transgression and transgression received just vengeance, that he
Then three thousand men from Judah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam, and they said unto Samson, "Do ye not that the Philistines have power over us? What is this that thou hast done unto us?" And he said unto them, "Just as they did unto me, so I have done to them."
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech;
For they that say such things show that they seek a country.
and the woman hasted, and and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, he appeared unto me, even unto the man that came upon day unto me.'
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the choice of the devoted thing, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
And when they of Ashdod, arose early the next day, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set it in its place again.
And David went from thence to Mizpeh of Moab, and said unto the king of Moab, Let, I pray thee, my father and my mother go out with you, Till I know what God doth for me;'
The stars fought from heaven; from their courses they fought against Sisera.
And the chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen; drew sword.
And Saul was very wroth, and that saying was evil in his sight; and he said, They have called David ten thousands, but to me they have called the thousands, and is there more for him but the kingdom?
But my God will abundantly supply all your need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And by faith Abel offered unto God a most excellent sacrifice than Cain, whereby he obtained testimony of being righteous, God bearing witness to his gifts, and by it, having died, he yet speaketh.
And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the lovingkindness of Jehovah, that I not die;
Zebulun a people that uncovered his soul to death, Naphtali also upon the high places of the field.
So the man Elkanah went up with all his household to make the annual sacrifice unto Jehovah, and to pay his vow.
In the days of Shamgar, the son of Beth-anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were not used for; and ye caravans went by side streets.
He sent to them that were in Beth-el, and in Ramah of the South, and in Jattir;
Then Abishai said unto David, God hath given up the enemy into your hands this day; therefore let me give him one blow through to the earth with the spear, and there shall be no need to give him a second.
judging, that God was able to give life even to the dead; and because of this he did get him back as if from death.
So also Christ didn't glorify himself to be made a high priest, but it was he that said unto him, "You are my Son, this day have I become your father."
If then he indeed were upon earth, he would not even be a priest, there being them that offer the gifts according to the law,
But Joash said unto all them that smote him; Wilt thou take up the cause of Baal, wilt thou be his saviour? Let any that will take up his cause be put to death while it is yet morning: if he is a god, let him take up his cause himself because of the casting down of his altar.
And all the men of Israel that was then in the hill-country of Ephraim, heard that the Philistines had been beaten, went after them, smote them.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clothed with a corselet of scales; and the weight of the corselet was five thousand pieces of brass.
But David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel in Ramatha, and told him all that Saul had done to him: and he and Samuel went and dwelt in Najoth.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go? and have I smitten among these Philistines?' And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smitten among the Philistines, and saved Keilah.'
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera, that dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
And the men of Israel went out to war against Benjamin (and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them at Gibeah). fighting
saying, "This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath commanded you."
And when David was resurrection after the destruction of the Philistine, Abner took him to Saul, with the head of the Philistine, in his hand.
And Saul did not look on David with a good eye from that day and forward.
Therefore Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph;
And all the people rise as one man, saying, None of us shall go to his tent, and none of us shall turn aside to his house;
When ye go in, ye shall come to a people secure, and the land is large in every means; for God hath given it into your hands; [it is] a place where there is no want of anything that is upon the earth.
And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.
Therefore Saul sent messengers to David's house to guard him and to kill him in the morning, but Michal his wife told David, saying, "If ye will not save thy life this night, then to-morrow ye shall be killed!"
for every house is builded by some, one, and He that the all things did build God,
And Jehovah appeared in Shiloh, for Jehovah hath been revealed unto Samuel, in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.
He was very thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, "You have given this great victory by the hand of thy servant; and now shall I die of thirst, and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?"
Ye have not yet withstood unto blood, wrestling against sin.
Once again Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon,
And it shall come to pass, if Israel hath sowed, that Midian shall come up, and Amalek, and the sons of the east, yea, they have come up against him,
As for your beasts, that were lost three days ago, don't set thy mind upon them; for they have been found. For whom is all that is pleasant in Israel? Is it not for you, and for all thy father's house?"
And the servants of Saul declare unto him, saying, After these words hath David spoken.'
Now ye Philippians know this, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communication with me as concerning giving and their turn, but ye only.
And Saul encamped in the height of Hachilah, which is before the wilderness, by the way, and David tarried in the wilderness, and he seeth that Saul came after him in to the wilderness;
And Gideon came to the Jordan, passed over, he and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing.
And the children of Israel also returned by their tribes; and families, to their dwellings. In those days was there no king in Israel: but every one did that which was right to himself.
And he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and went throughout the land of Shalisha, and they have not found. And they passed through the land of Shaalim, and they are not; And he went through the land of Benjamin, and they have not found.
And the sons of Eli were the sons of Belial; they knew not the Lord.
For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, that God had done from his.
The cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were returned unto Israel from Ekron to Gath, and Israel delivered their inheritances from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And having no fear of thine enemies. which is a manifest token of their destruction; but of thy salvation, and that from God;
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples round about them, worshipped them, and provoke Jehovah to anger.
and the men very good unto us, and have not put us to shame, and we have not visited anything all the days we have gone up and down with them, while we were in the field;
Have I need of mad men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the mad man in my presence? shall this fellow come into my house?
And hospitality do not forget; for by this some, being not aware of it, have entertained angels.
And he saith unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver which have been taken of thine, and [of which] thou hast spoken, and also spoken in mine ears; behold, the silver with me, I have taken it;' and his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah.'
And as soon as the child was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself thrice: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David behaved themselves proudly.
howbeit I consider the things that were gain unto me as a defect in Christ.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the door of the house, and went forth to go his way, and behold, there lay the woman his concubine at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. And David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe secretly.
Therefore I sware unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be moved with sacrifice or oblation forever."
And he had thirty sons that rode upon thirty ass colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called the villages of Jair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
and Moab is humbled in that day under the hand of Israel; and the land resteth fourscore years.
And when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And they took that which Micah had made, and the priest that he had had, and came upon Laish. upon a people quiet and secure; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burned the city with fire.
And when all that knew him beforetime saw that he prophesied with prophets, the people said one to another, "What is this that hath befallen the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?"
Now, my father, see, yea, behold, the skirts of your robe in my hand. For when I cut the skirts of thy bosom I did not kill thee: know and that there is there is no evil or rebellion in my hand. I did not sin against you, but ye are hunting down my life to take it.
but over the Ashurites, dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
For my father fought for you, and endangered his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
He inclosed a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he described for him the princes of Succoth, and the elders, seventy and seven men.
for the account of God is living, and work, and sharp above every two-edged sword, and piercings unto the dividing asunder both of soul and spirit, of joints also and marrow, and a discerner of thoughts and intents of the heart;
yea, they forsake Jehovah, and do service unto Baal, to Ashtaroth.
Now while Saul talked with the priest, the noise in the tents of the Philistines waxed louder and louder; and Saul said unto the priest, Take back thy hand.
for he of whom these things are said in another tribe hath had part, of whom no man gave attendance at the altar,
for Jehovah will not leave his people, because of his great name; for Jehovah hath pleased thee to make thee unto himself for a people.
And God that day humbled Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel:
So that day God smote Jabin, king of Canaan, before the children of Israel.
And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And for this cause he is a mediator of the covenant, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, they that are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
Then the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the family gods, and the graven image and went with the people.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekite and the people of the east, banding themselves together, passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And I went after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I took hold of him, by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
looking unto Jesus the Prince and finisher of our faith; that for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despiseth the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea.
Then Manoah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, "Excuse me, my Lord, I pray thee, let the man of God whom ye sent again come to us and teach us what we should do concerning the lad who shall be born."
So that day he gave him the name of for. saying, Let Baal take up his cause against him because his altar hath been broken down.
And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
My heart loveth the princes of Israel: O ye that of your own good will offered yourselves to peril, bless ye Jehovah.
And there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of wealth.
And the old man lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the court of the city, and he said, "Where goest thou? and from whence then hast thou come?"
and all the people go to Gilgal, and cause Saul to reign there before Jehovah in Gilgal, and sacrifice there sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah, and there Saul rejoiceth and all the men of Israel, that it was very greatly.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?
And Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the flocks of sheep and of the herds, and the garments and the rams, and all that were fair, and would not destroy them: but everything that was vile and good for nothing, that they destroyed.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand: and let all the other people go every man unto his place.
David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armor bearer.
For as Jehovah liveth, Who saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
and the children of Dan went on the way, and Micah saw that they are stronger than he, and turned, and went back unto his house.
as it is righteous for me to consider this as unto you all, because ye have me in your hearts and that both in my bonds and in the defence and would be confirmed. the gospel ye are all participators in my grace.
And it came to pass soon afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
And the tabernacle too and all the vessels of service he sprinkled in like manner with blood;
For he hath not subject to angels the world which is to come, whereof we speak;
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and restore the kingdom there.
and Saul and the men of Israel together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
And they turned thither, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and inquired after his welfare.
A curse, a curse upon Meroz! said the angel of Jehovah. A bitter curse upon her townspeople! Because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the strong ones.
And they said, He is; so he is before you: go quickly now, for he is come into the city to-day: for the people are doing sacrifice in the high place this day;
And after that thou shalt come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is stationed: and when thou comest to the city, and ye shall see a band of prophets coming down from the high place with instruments of music before them; and they shall be and playedst prophets:
and then fell away, it is impossible to restore them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify the Son of God for themselves again, and put him to open shame.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines; therefore they called that place Sela-hammahlekoth.
And it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul's daughter should have been given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
There was at that time a man of the hill-country of Ephraim whose name was Michas,
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel; howbeit the name of the city used to be Laish.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou come again.
And we must use all diligence, and provide with great diligence, that one tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
Therefore they inquired of Jehovah further, if the man should yet come thither. And Jehovah answered and said, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And she sat under a palm-tree, which was called by her name, between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for all judgment.
But Christ being come high priest of the good things to come, by the better and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, (the same is not of this creation,)
In those days there is no king in Israel and in those days the tribe of the Danite seeketh for itself an inheritance to inhabit, for shall fall unto it unto that day in the midst of the tribes of Israel by inheritance.
And by faith Noah, being warned of God concerning the things not yet saw, he feared, did prepare an ark to the salvation of his house, through which he did condemn the world, and of the righteousness according to faith he became heir.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jehonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses; he and his sons were priests unto the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
And it was told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem were there together.
And Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, to Harosheth-Goim; and all the host of Sisera, fell by the edge of the sword; there remained not one.
And he said unto them, Why do ye these kinds of things, which I hear, very wicked things, from all the people?
And Gedeon sent messengers into all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take the waters before them to Bethbera and the Jordan. And all Ephraim shouted, and took the waters before them, and the Jordan as far as Bethbera.
Who by faith overcome kingdoms, wrought justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions,
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget thy work and the labor of love which thou showedst toward his name, in that thou served the saints, and yet do serve them.
Then said they, "What should the trespass-offering be which we shall return to him?" And they said, "Five golden emerods, and and five golden mice, for the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague was upon you all, and upon thy Lords.
Now without any cause the inferior is blessed by the more prominent.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, "Behold, a present for you from the spoil of Yahweh's enemies."
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and was departed from Saul.
For our God is a devouring fire.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said, I made you to go up out of Egypt, and bring thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with thee; and as for you,
And they are gone away from before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness, but the battle caught up unto them, and they that came from the cities destroyed them in the midst of them.
They would not be satisfied with his words; which the man seeing, brought out his concubine to them, and forsook her to their wickedness, and when they had abuse her all the night, they let her go in the morning.
Then said Saul unto the Kenite, Go, depart, get thee down from among the Amalekites, lest I consume thee with them: for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalek.
and here, indeed, men who die do receive tithes, and there woman, being testified to that he was living,
and the number of them lapping up the water with their hand to their mouth was three hundred men; all the rest of the people kneeled to drink the water.
For many walk, of whom I told you often, and now tell you even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
And Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken thereto. And in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab: but he would not consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
because even in Thessalonica on more than one occasion ye sent for my need.
So they put another question unto Jehovah, Is the man present here? And the answer of the Lord was, He keepeth himself from view among the goods.
and because of this infirmity he ought as for the people, so also for himself to offer for sins;
And David said unto Saul, "Your servant was keeping his father's sheep; and when a lion or a bear came, and took a lamb of the flock,
So Saul sent officers to take David: and when they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel presiding over them, the Spirit of Jehovah came also upon them, and they likewise began to prophesy.
For he of whom these things are spoken, is of another tribe, of which no one attended on the altar.
And Hebrews have passed over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; and Saul yet in Gilgal, and all the people have trembled after him.
And Saul feared David, because Jehovah was with him, and was departed from himself.
So Jonathan went up on his hands and his feet, with his armorbearer after him; and they fell before Jonathan and then his armorbearer would slay them after him.
And behold, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances, then come ye out of the vineyards, and overtake you every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
For who, when they heard, rebelled? No, didn't all them that came forth out of Egypt with Moses?
And the king said unto Doeg: Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And endureth chiefs turned, and fell upon the priests and slew in that day fourscore and five men that had worn the linen ephod.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, Now let us keep thee while we make ready a kid for you.
And Ahimelech answered the king, and said, And who among all thy servants as David even faithful, and son-in-law of the king, and hath turned aside unto thy council, and is acceptable in thy house?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night; and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me of the spirit of divination and bring me up whom I shall name to thee.
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel: and the battle spread, and Israel was put to the worse before the Philistines; and they slew armed in the field about four thousand men.
again he purposeth a certain day, saying, in David, 'To-day,' after so long time; (as it hath been said before), To-day, oh that ye will hear his voice, be ye not your hearts.
Then the elders of the assembly said, "How shall we provide wives for them that remain, since the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?"
And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all distress.
And the Philistine, came near unto David; and the man that had his shield went before him.
Jesus Christ, yesterday, and to day; and the same for ever.
But exhort one another every day, while it is called to day, that none of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.
And the name of Saul's wife, was Ahinoam the daughter of Achimaas; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, the uncle german of Saul.
And the people saw him, and they praised their god, for they said, "Our god hath given into our hand them that hate us, bring to nought our land, and have killed many of us."
Partly, Whilst ye were made a gazingstock both by reproaches and afflictions; and partly, Whilst ye became companions of them that were so eaten.
The children of Benjamin saw that they were smote, and the men of Israel gave ground to Benjamin because they trusted the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
Of whom it had been said, From Isaac shall thy seed take their name.
And there is a young man of Beth-Lehem-Judah, of the family of Judah, and he a Levite, and he a sojourner there.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field for the appointment with David, and a little child with him.
Now there was a set sign between the men of Israel and the lie in wait, that they should make a great flame with smoke rise up out of the city.
The Sidonians also and Amalek And let Canaan oppress you, and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand?
And the men of Bethsames said, Who shall be able to stand before Jehovah this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
as also it is said in old time, saying, From the wicked shall wickedness come forth; therefore my hand shall not be upon thee. After whom dost thou come forth, O king of Israel?
Now therefore I have heard that thou hast shearers; now, the shepherds whom thou hast have been with us, we have not put them to shame, nor hath anything been looked after by them, all the days of their being in Carmel.
So while he was sleeping she rose the seven loops of his hair wrought into her cloth and fastened with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. Then awaked out of his sleep, he arose quickly, plucked up cloth and machine together.
David smote the land, and saved no man or woman alive, and took away the sheep, the cattle, the asses, the camels, and the apparel; and he returned, and came to Achish.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they did not again lift up their head, and the land had rest for forty years in the days of Gideon.
Not that I have already obtained [the prize], or am already perfected; but I will pursue, though I may get possession [of it], seeing that also I was taken by Christ.
And it came to pass, that every one that saw it said, There hath been no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day. Think it over, advise thee, and speak.
So then we may say securely, "The Jehovah will help me; I will not be afraid; What will man do unto me?"
For we, who have believed, shall enter into rest; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath; If they shall enter into my weary; and this indeed when the works from the foundation of the world should be finished.
David sent ten young men, and David said unto the young men, "Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout the camp. And the host fled to Beth-shittah toward Zererah, unto the border of Abel-meholah, by Tabbath.
And David gave his parcels into the hand of the keeper of the army treasures, and ran unto the army and came to his brethren to inquire concerning them.
And death came to Samuel: and all Israel came together, weeping for him, and put his body in its resting-place in his house at Ramah: Then David went down to the wilderness of Maon.
for not into holy places made with hands did the Christ enter even figures of the true but into the heaven itself, now to be made manifest in the presence of God for us;
But after they had taken it away, the hand of Jehovah was stretched out against the city to destroy it: and the signs of disease came forth upon all the men of the city, small and great.
Now on that same night Jehovah said unto him, "Take the bullock of the cattle that is thy father, and a second bullock seven years old, and pull down the altar of Baal that is thy father, and cut down the Asherah, that is beside it;
And Samson answered him, From this day I shall be unreproveable in what I do against the Philistines; for I will do thee evil.
And I especially beseech you to do this, that I may be restored to you more quickly.
When Eli heard the noise of the and clamor, he said, "What is the noise of this commotion?" And the man came quickly, and told Eli.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night, and found Saul lying and lay in the tent, and his spear inclosed in the ground at his head; and Abner and the people sleeping round about him.
(The former time in Israel, when a man went to ask counsel of God, he said, Come, and let us go to the seer, for he that is now called a prophet was in former time called a Seer.)
How much more, if perhaps the people had eaten freely this day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? For now hath there be no great slaughter among the Philistines."
And they told Sisera, that Barak the son of Abinoam were gone up unto mount Tabor.
And Abimelech and the people with him rose up by night, in four bands, to make an ambush for Shechem.
And they smote at that time about ten thousand men of Moab, every strong man, and all the men of valor. No man escaped.
If they say unto us: 'Wait until we reach you,' then we will stand as we are and not go up unto them.
And Manoah said unto his wife, "We will surely die because we have seen God."
But when they came up out of Egypt, he walked through the wilderness by the Red Sea and came into his anointed.
But the vine said unto them, Shall I give up my wine, which maketh glad God and men, to go wave over the trees?
Here is my virgin daughter and his concubine: Oh let me bring them forth; do violence to them, and do unto them whatsoever ye please. Do not do this thing unto this man." folly
And every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
For it is borne witness, Thou art a priest for ever according to the ordinance of Melchisedec.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
(For the law brought nothing to perfection,) but a bringing in of a better hope by which we draw nigh to God.
In the morning her master rose up, and he opened the doors of the house and went forth to go on his journey, and behold, his concubine was fell down at the door of the house, with her hand on the threshold.
And while Saul spake unto the priest, there arose a great tumult arise in the camp of the Philistines; and it increased by steps, and was heard more plainly. And Saul said unto the priest: Draw in thy hand.
For to which of the angels did he say at any time, "You are my Son, this day have I become your father?" and again, "I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?"
Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish of Gallim.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt: they followed other gods from the gods of the people that were round about them; and they worshipped them, and they provoked the anger of Jehovah.
And then, about ten days after, when Jehovah smote Nabal and he died.
and the men of Jabesh say [to the Ammonites], `To-morrow we come out unto you, and ye have done to us according to all that good in thy eyes.'
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, "Yahweh hath not chosen this one, either."
And the children of Israel add to do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Hear, O ye kings, give ear, ye princes; It is I, it is I, that will sing unto Jehovah, I will sing unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is he that can stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom may he go from us?
But we are not of them that shrink back to destruction, but of them that have faith unto the saving of the soul.
And now, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength when thou walkest by thy way.
And when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, Jehovah raised up a deliverer unto the children of Israel, who delivered them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
For as Jehovah liveth, who delivereth Israel, I swear that even if it is in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die!" But no man from all the host answered him.
And David wasted all the land, and left neither man nor woman alive: and took away the sheep and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achis.
And Gilead's wife bare him sons; and when his wife's sons were grown, they an outcast Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people: the garrison, and the spoilers, they also trembled, and the earth quaked: so it was a very great trembling.
Not that I seek the gift, but I seek for the profit that increaseth to thy sake,
And there came a man of God unto Eli, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Was I of a surety revealed unto the house of thy father in their being in Egypt before Pharaoh's house,
Because they are only statutes of the flesh, of food and drinketh and washings, which have their place until the time when things shall be put right.
And they answered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and did cast therein every man the ear-rings of his prey.
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was one year and four months.
if ye have done in truth and sincerity with Jerub-Baal and his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you.
Now therefore see the king whom thou hast chosen, and whom thou hast asked for. Behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and and briers; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
And by faith Noah, having received an answer concerning the things which as yet were not seen, moved with fear, framed the ark for the saving of his house, by the which he condemned the world; and was ordain heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And Jephthah addeth yet and sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon,
And the sons of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel are gone up to Mizpeh eastward; and the children of Israel say, Speak ye, how hath this evil been?'
He also stripped off his clothes, and he also prophesied before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day, and all the night; Wherefore they say, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
And Saul stood yet in the uttermost part of Geba, under the food, in Migron: there were about six hundred men with him;
And when he was dead, all the men of Israel that were with him, and returned to their home.
even as the duty of the word of life; so that I may be glorified in you in the day of Christ, because my running was not for nothing and my work was not without effect.
Now Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it; and Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Gideon perceived that he was an angel of Jehovah; and Gideon said, Ah Lord Jehovah! for because I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face man.
And know also ye, O Philippians, that in beginning of the gospel, when I came out of Macedonia, no assembly revealed unto me in way of giving and receiving save ye alone;
And they turned aside there, to go in to abide in Gibeah. And he went in, and sat down in the street of the city; for there was none that took them into his house to stay.
For I am in a narrow betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better:
While they were taking their pleasure at the meal, the wicked men of the city came round about the house, who gave bloweth upon the door, and they said unto the old man, the master of the house, Bring forth that man who came to thy house, that we may know him.
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, "Is that thy voice, my son David?" Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
From thence they journeyed to the hill-country of Ephraim and came to the house of Micah.
And the Amorites plucked the children of Dan into the hill-country, for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley.
Thou hast not yet withstood to the point of shedding thy blood as ye wrestling against sin.
Having therefore, brethren, boldness for he entered into the [holy of] most by the blood of Jesus,
Then Ibzan died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee, and Jehovah hath avenged me of thee, and my hand is not on thee:
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the caves which are in the mountains, and in the caves and strongholds.
The priest said unto David, and said, "I have no common bread, but there is showbread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women."
Many, indeed, have been made priests, because they are hindered from continuing by death.
and they spake unto him, saying, "No; but we will bind thee securely, and deliver you into their hands; but surely we will not put you." They bound him in two new ropes and brought him up from the rock.
And when they went from thence to Gibeah, one went of prophets met him, and the Spirit of God rushed upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered themselves together to war: and Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped by the Stone of help. And the Philistines came to Aphek,
And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
Because even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto me in my need.
I said, Now the Philistines shall come down upon me at Gilgal, and I have made no prayer for help to Jehovah: and so, forcing myself to do it, I made a burnt-offering.
For they did not endure that which was said, And if so much as a beast shall touch the mount, it shall be stoned.
And the cities which the Philistines have taken from Israel are restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath and their border Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines; and there is peace between Israel and the Amorite.
And the asses of Kish, Sauls father, were lost; and Kish said unto his son Saul: Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, go and seek the asses. And when they had passed through the hill-country of Ephraim,
And others had proof of mockers and stripes, moreover also of bonds and prison-houses:
Then the congregation sent and spake all this to the children of Benjamin that were at the rock of Rimmon, and they assured them they would not be hurt.
And Gideon went and prepared a kid and unleavened cakes of an ephah of flour; he put food in a basket, and the broth he put in a pot, and brought them to him under the oak and presented them.
Then Gedeon took ten men of his servants, did as Jehovah had commanded him. But fearing his father's house, and the men of that city, he would not do it by day, but did all by night.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years.
When the host came again to the camp, the elders of Israel asked, "Why hath Jehovah smote us this day before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto us from Shiloh that it may come into our midst and deliver us from the hand of our enemies."
Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt; for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchishua: and the name of his two daughters were these; the name of the first-born of Saul, and the name of the younger Michal:
But all the children of Israel had to go to the Philistines to get their ploughs and blades and axes and hooks made sharp; The
and he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel; and they possessed the city of palms;
and all the men of Israel when they see the man flee from his presence, and are sore afraid.
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end.
Then Gaal son of Ebed said, "Who is Abimelech, and that are we of Shechem that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerub-Baal, and is not Zebul his chief officer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem. wherefore should we serve him?
And the king said unto her, Be not afraid; but what didst thou see? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw a god ascending out of the earth.
And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in the Lord, mine horn shall be exalted in Jehovah: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; because I rejoice in thy salvation.
Therefore I also said, 'I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods will be a snare unto you.'"
Now when these things were thus commanded, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, have performed the service of God.
Wherefore also from one were begotten and that of one that had made dead as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand that by the sea-shore the innumerable.
When Israel had waxed strong, that they put the Canaanites to taskwork, and did not utterly drive them out.
and brought them near before Saul, and before his servants, and they did eat, and arise, and let us go, that night.
And as for the Finally, brethren, as many things as are true, as many as grave, as many as righteous, as many as pure, as many as were lovely as many as of good report, if any virtue; and if any praise, these things think upon;
saying on high, `Sacrifice, and oblation, and burnt-offerings, and concerning sin-offering Thou didst not, nor delight in,' (which according to the law are offered even
That thou mayest give thy mind to the best things; that ye may be true and without iniquity until the day of Christ;
Then said I, Lo, I come in the roll of the book it is written of me,) to do thy will, O God.
And Gideon said, Therefore in Jehovah's giving Zebah and Zalmunna; into my hand I have threshed your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness, and with the threshing instruments.'
So Gaal went out to meet the lords of Shechem and fought against Abimelech;
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth to Jehovah, do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth, forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, the least of all the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of the families of Benjamin? why then sayest thou these words unto me?
And so he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel from that day until now.
And Samuel called the people unto Jehovah to Mizpeh,
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.
Now Jonathan gave his weapons to his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
Seeing he longed for you all, and was very troubled, because ye had heard that he was sick.
For then they would have ceased to be offered: because the worshippers once cleansed should have no conscience of sin any longer:
Now Jonathan giveth his weapons unto the young man whom he hath, and said unto him, Go, carry into the city.'
Thou made him a little lower than the angels. Thou crownest him with glory and honor.
Move not, I pray thee, from this, until I come to thee, and I have brought out my present, and put it before Thee;' and he said, I will do abide till thy return.'
to them in Beth-el, and to them that are in South Ramoth and to them that are in Jattir,
And they cried unto Jehovah, who raised up a saviour, and delivered them, to wit, Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb:
Now Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: wherefore look to thyself, I beseech thee, in the morning, and thou shalt abide in a hiding-place and shalt be hid.
Take heed to thyself that no man falleth short of the grace of God; that no man waxed up like a root of bitterness causeth sorrow; But by it many defiled;
Now Hannah had been speaking in her heart; her lips were removing, but her voice could not be heard, so Eli considered her to be drunken.
hath at the end of these days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the worlds.
For every one that taketh milk is without experience of the word of righteousness: he is a child.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, Yet the people too many; bring them down unto the water, and I refine it for thee there: and it shall be, that he of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee he shall go with thee; and any of whom I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee he shall not go.'
and God recompensed all the wickedness of the men of Shechem upon their heads; and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal came upon them.
But this day ye are turned away from your God, who himself hath been thy salvation from all your troubles and sorrows; and thou hast said unto him, Put a king over us. Now therefore take your places before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth there shall no mischief happen to thee for this thing.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot declare unto thee.
For it hath been witness to him, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And the children of Israel repent concerning Benjamin their brother, and said, There hath been to-day cut off one tribe from Israel,
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and the Ashtoreths, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; and they forsook Jehovah, and served him not.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they made him drink water;
The five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Avvites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath;
Now the Philistine, came out morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
But now he hath obtained a most excellent ministry, by so much as he is also a mediator of a better covenant, which on better promises hath been given as law.
but to Hannah he gave a double portion for he loved Hannah, but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the land of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men. All these drew the sword.
And they said unto him, "Hold thy peace, put thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest. Is it good for thee to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?"
by so much Jesus became surety of a better covenant.
Then aloud the feet of the horses are sounding with the stamping, the stamping of their war-horses.
And it shall be, that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, thou shalt rise up early, and set upon the city: and, behold, when he and the people that is with him come out against thee, then wilt thou do unto them as thou shalt find time.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal-Tamar; and the ambush of Israel rushed forth out of their place, out of the meadows of Gibeon.
And Samuel came not again to see Saul till the day of his death, for Samuel mourned for Saul, and Jehovah repented which he had caused Saul to reign over Israel.
And the man, the Levite, husband of the woman that hath been murdered, answered and said, delivered into Gibeah (which to Benjamin) I have come, I and my concubine, to will lodge;
and he opened all his heart to her, he said unto her, My head hath not been touched by a sickle; for I have been separate unto God from of the womb; if my hair is cut off, then my strength shall go from me, and I shall be feeble, and shall be as any other man.
And he took a young man from Succoth, and asked him. The young man reckoned for him the captains of Succoth and their elders seventy and seven men.
and they are to prove Israel by them, to know whether they hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
and said unto him, Fear not, for Saul my father will not get you into his hand; and thou shalt be king of Israel, and I will be by thy side, and my father Saul is certain of this.
Then said Saul unto his mother's brother, and he told us that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken to him, he told him not.
And Jotham escaped and fled, and went to Beer: he abode there because of Abimelech his brother.
For if we keep on sinning deliberately having received the knowledge of the truth, there no longer abideth a sacrifice for sins,
Then on the seventh day, before he went into the bride's chamber, the men of the city said unto him, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lioness, And he said unto them, If ye had not been plowing with my cow ye would not have gathered the answer to my question.
how shall we escape, having neglected so great salvation? which a beginning receiving to be spoken through the Lord, by them that have heard was confirmed unto us,
And David and his men went up and made a raid upon the Geshurites, and the Gerzites, and the Amalekites: for them were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur; and as far as the land of Egypt.
go, I pray you, prepare yet again, and know and see his place where his foot is; who hath seen him there? for hath said unto me, He is very crafty.
and of this be persuaded, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all, to thy progress and joy of the faith,
And Samson said, "With the jaw through of the ass, heap upon heap: with the jaw through of the ass, I smote dead a thousand men."
So we see that they were not able to go in because they had no belief.
Kish, the father of Saul, and Ner, the father of Abner, were the sons of Abiel.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil dealings by all this people.
For our country is in heaven, from where the Saviour for whom we look shall come even the Lord Jesus Christ;
and gave him a piece of fig-cake and two clusters of raisins, and he did eat, and his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, for three days and three nights.
Jephthah came to Mizpah, to his house, and behold his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and dancing. she was his only child; he did not have a son or daughter save her.
That the daughters of Israel went every year to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.
But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he prepared for them a city.
And it is yet far more evident: for that after the likeness of Melchizedek there ariseth another priest,
Now while they made their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, certain sons of fellow, beset the house round about, and beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he went through Gilead and Manasseh, and came to Mizpeh of Gilead; and from Mizpeh of Gilead he went over to the children of Ammon.
I will put this fleece of wool on the threshing-floor, if there be dew upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground beside, I, shall know that by my hand, as thou hast said, thou wilt deliver Israel.
And after him rose up Jair, a Gileadite; and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
Therefore leaving the teaching of the first rudiments of Christ, let us follow on to perfectionnot laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works, of faith toward God,
Righteous then, Saul was come from the field after the cattle. Saul said, "What is the matter with the people, that they are weeping?" So they told him the words of the men of Jabesh,
And Jehovah sent thee on a journey, and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them, until they be consumed.
But unto our God and Father glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And by faith Jacob blessed the two sons of Joseph, when he was nigh to death; and gave God worship, upholden by his staff.
The men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, and they said, "The ark of the God of Israel should not abide with us, because his hand is austere on us, and on our god!" Dagon
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took a bribe, and perverted judgment.
And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once! Let me prove; I pray thee, but this once with the sheep; let it, I pray thee, be dry upon the fleece only, and upon all the ground let there be dew.
And Saul sent messengers to David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning; and Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou save not thy life to-night to-morrow thou wilt be put to death.
And by faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go forth unto a place that he was going to receive for an inheritance, and he went out, not knowing where he was going.
Who will hearken unto you in this matter? For as his portion is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that abideth with the baggage; They shall portion alike."
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Gedeon said unto him, I beseech thee, my lord, if the Lord be with us, why hast these evils fallen upon us? Where are his signs, which our fathers have told us of, saying, Jehovah brought us out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the bands of Madian.
Then Achish said unto his servants, "Look, ye see a madman! Why hast thou brought him unto me?
Above when he said, Sacrifice and offering and burnt-offerings and oblation for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure therein; which are offered by the law;
And when they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us go back, or my father may forsake about the asses and be troubled about us.
Now after Abimelech, Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, became the saviour of Israel; he dwelt in Shamir in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the Philistines gather their camp, to battle, and are gathered unto Shochoh, which to Judah, and encamped in Ephes-Dammim; between Shochoh and Azekah,
Then Samuel said unto Jesse, "Are all the young men here?" And he said, "The youngest yet remaineth, and, behold, he is feeding the flock." And Samuel said unto Jesse, "Send and bring him, for we cannot sit down until he come here."
How much more, think ye he deserveth worse the last, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God; and hath esteemed the blood of the covenant unclean, by which he was sanctified, and offer a transgression to the Spirit of grace?
And Samuel said unto the people, Come and we go to Gilgal, and restore the kingdom there;'
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
For I have no man likeminded, who will mere care for your estate.
So they sent God's ark to Ekron. As God's ark came to Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, "They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people."
For the bodies of the beasts whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin are burned without the circle of the tents.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore grieved: and for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answered me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And there is not a creature unapparent before him; but all things naked and laid bare unto his eyes, With whom we have to do.
Whence shall they take women? For we are all in captain sworn, not to give our daughters unto them.
And David sent ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and ye shall come in unto Nabal, and asked of him in my name of welfare,
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, "Didn't ye hate me, and carry me out of my father's house? Why hast thou come to me now when ye are in distress?"
And eighteen thousand men from Benjamin fell, all of them able men.
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers did keep it, or not.
and Sisera, called all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Goiim, unto the brook Kishon;
And the bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over thee, then come and put thy trust in my shade; yea, and if not, let fire come out of feel the and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
But when the cloud began to arise up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them; and, behold, the whole city went up in smoke to heaven.
And what more do I say? For the time would faint me telling of Gideon, and Barak, and Samson, and Jephthah, and David and Shemuel, and of the prophets:
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And it came to pass from that day and forward, that he setteth up it for a statute and for a statute for Israel unto this day.
Who is going to give ear unto you in this me? for an equal part shall be given unto him that went to the fight and to him that was standing by the buyer; they are all to have the same.
And in Hebron, and to all the places where David and his men sojourned.
Am I to take my bread and my wine and the flesh I have prepared for my wool-cutters and give it unto men came from I know not where?
Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the wilderness, by the way. But David tarried in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And they called the name of this place Bokim, and there they sacrificed unto Jehovah.
For there was a tabernacle made the first, wherein were the candlesticks, and the table, and the set forth of loaves, which is called the holy.
Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city. Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from the covert;
if any way I arrive at the resurrection from the dead.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man whom I spake unto thee of! this same shall reign over my people.
And Samuel said unto Jesse: Are here all thy sons? And he said, There remaineth yet a young one, that keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse: Send and fetch him, for we will not sit down until he come hither.
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also was Moses in all his house.
And on the morrow the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they found Saul and his three sons lying in mount Gilboa.
On the fifth day he rose early in the morning to go, and the father of the damsel, said, "Please, enjoy yourself," and they lingered until the day declined, and the two of them did eat.
And he separated also therein a little temple for the god, and made an ephod, and theraphim, that is to say, a priest's garment, and idols: and he filled the hand of one of his sons, and he became his priest.
And it was the people of Zebulun who put their lives in peril, even to death, with Naphtali upon the high places of the field.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw how it was, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us; for his hand is hard on us, and on Dagon our god.
On the morrow the evil spirit from God rushed upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house. Now David was playing the harp with his hand on that day as usual, and the spear was in Saul's hand.
Now on the morrow, Saul put the people into three bands, and in the morning watch, they came to the camp of the children of Ammon, and they went on smote them, till the heat of the day: and they that were not put to death were put to flight to and fro so that no two of them were together.
For he was sick, came near unto death, but God had mercy on him and not on him only, but also upon me, so that I would not have sorrow upon sorrow.
And David answered the priest and said unto him, yea indeed, women have been kept from us about these three days since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the is in a manner common, and the more so, because to-day is sanctified in the vessels.
Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants for David, which is the king's son in law, and went at thy word; and is glorious in thy house?
Delilah said unto Samson, "Until now, thou hast mocked me and told me lies. Tell me with what ye might be bound." And he said unto her, "If ye weave the seven locks of my head with the web."
The me, to Saul to Gibeah, saying, "Doesn't David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the desert?"
Then Eli said unto her, Go in peace: and the God of Israel answer thee in the prayer thou hast made unto him.
So both of them uncovered themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts wherein they were hid.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he came in and went out before them.
When Yahweh's angel spake these words unto all the children of Israel, the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And they took all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and came near unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
But we are not of them that draw back unto perdition, but of them that believe to the saving of the soul.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men left-handed; all these slang stones at a hair it, and erred concerning not.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
But whithersoever they had thought to go, the hand of Jehovah was upon them, as he had said, and as he had sworn unto them: and they were afraid.
In those days was there no king in Israel, and every one did that which was right in his own eyes;
Neither shall any man take the glory to himself, but he that is called by God, as Aaron was.
And Saul also went to his house at Gibeah, and the people whose heart God had touched went with him.
and the Jebusite, that dwell in Jerusalem, the sons of Benjamin have not dispossessed; and the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin, in Jerusalem, unto this day.
containing the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on every side of with gold, wherein were a golden pitcher containing the manna and the rod of Aaron that budded and the tables of the covenant.
Saul said unto the Kenite, "Go, leave as a remnant. Withdraw from among the Amalekite so that I do not destroy thee with them: thou hast showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up from Egypt." So the Kenites left from among the Amalek.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah that belongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge in.
Having confidence in this very purpose, that he, who hath begun a good work in you, will perfect it unto the day of Christ Jesus.
But one of the sons of Abimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped, and fled to David,
And she said, Would that thy maid-servant may find favor in thy sight. And the woman went on her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more changed.
And Micaiah said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah and I am seeking sojourn there.
But this, for that he abideth for ever, hath an everlasting priesthood;
by faith Jacob dying every one of the sons of Joseph did bless, and did bow down upon the top of his staff
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye plead for Baal. will ye save him? he that will contend for him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself, for one hath cast down his altar.
And the Philistines fell upon Saul, and upon his sons, and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And Manoah said unto him, "Now when your words be fulfilled, what shall be the boy's manner of life and work?"
For we are the circumcision, that worship by the Spirit of God, and glory in Christ Jesus, and do not trust in flesh.
And David said unto Ahimelech, "Isn't there here under thy hand spear or sword? For I have neither brought forth my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste."
And they said unto Jephthah, "Come and be our captain, so that we may make war against the Ammonites."
And when he came, there was Eli sitting upon his seat by the way side looking, because his heart was anxious concerning the ark of God. Now the man had come to give his report in the city, and all the city cried out.
Brotherly love must be established.
For this cause there is the further need for us to give heed unto the things which are come to our ears, lest haply we might be ready away.
Then he said, Jehovah is witness against you, and the man to whom he hath put the holy oil is witness this day that thou hast seen no wrong in me. And they said, He is witness.
and, behold, as thy soul shall be great this day in mine eyes, So is my soul great in the sight of Jehovah, and he will deliver me out of all distress.'
And they turned before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtake them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of them.
Therefore have I sworn unto the house of Heli, that the iniquity of his house shall not be did cleanse with sacrifices nor offerings for ever.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich; he brought low, also he lifted up;
And I hope in the Lord Jesus, Timothy to send quickly unto you, that I also may be of good spirit, knowing the things concerning you,
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians and the Amorite, and the children of Ammon and the Philistines
and if ye will do evil, both ye and your king are consumed.'
And Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon, by the way. But David tarried in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
For when the people were numbered, behold, there was none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
I make this urged them greatly; in the hope of resurrection unto you more quickly.
And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice, and the woman said unto Saul, "Why hast thou beguiled me? Thou art Saul!"
But it seemed unto me necessary to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother, that hath been partakers with me in the work and in the battle, and thy servant, sent by you for help in my need;
And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me, forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didst not kill me.
Gideon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the multitude; for the army was secure.
They were stoned, were sawn asunder, were tempted, died by the death of the sword; they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, destitute, afflicted, evil treated,
And David said unto Abiathar, "I knew on that day that endureth chiefs was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I am the charge of the death of all your father's household!
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will do it for thee.
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob: and they came all of them unto the king.
For as touching those that were once enlightened and tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Don't forget to show hospitality to strangers, for in doing so, some have entertained angels without knowing it.
for, in that himself hath passion being tempted, he is able to help those that are being tempted.
They lay hold on bow of the mighty are broken, And the stumbling have girded on strength.
by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil that is to say, his flesh;
So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Cast out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to his own place, that it slay us not, and our people; for there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.
And they said unto him, "We am come down to bind you, that we may deliver you into the hand of the Philistines." Samson said unto them, "Swear me that thou shalt not contend me yourselves."
But if ye keep do evil, thou shalt be consumed, both ye and your king."
saying, "Surely I will surely bless thee, and I will greatly multiply you."
Now therefore also beware; I pray thee, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing;
From heaven was the battle; The stars from their courses fought with Sisera.
And Jehovah will give to every man according to his righteousness and his faith: because Jehovah gave you into my hands this day, and I would not put out my hand against the man that hath been anointed with oil.
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan, and sware, saying, As Jehovah liveth, he is not to be put to death.
And it came to pass, when Saul had returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go out against this Philistine, and have a fight with him: for thou art only a child, and he hath been a man of war from his womb.
I will make mention of Jehovah their God, and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
Being servants of that which is a copy and an image of the things in heaven, as Moses, when he was about to make the Tent, had special commandments from God: for, Behold, he said, that ye make everything like the pattern which hath been showed thee in the mount.
let our lord commandment, we pray thee, thy servants before thee, they seek a skilful man, played on a harp, and it shall come to pass in the spirit of sadness God being upon thee, that he hath played with his hand, and [it is] well with thee.'
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast made an oath to Jehovah; do then unto me whatsoever thou hast spoken; for Jehovah hath sent a full reward upon your enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines shouted as they met him. Then Yahweh's Spirit came mightily upon him, and the ropes that were on his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands dropped rain from off his hands.
"Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit on rich carpets, and ye that walk by the way.
And David did not leave alive a man or a woman to bring them again unto Gath, thinking, "So that they may not report concerning us, saying, 'David did thus and so.'" Thus was his practise all the days that he dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their place.
He stood, and cried unto the hosts of Israel, and said unto them, "Why hast thou come out to set thy battle in My dove, Am I not a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose thee a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
"Because the men took the lead in Israel, because the people offered themselves willingly, be blessed; Jehovah!
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side; and the valley, was between them.
and to them that are in Hebron, and to all the places where David had gone up and down, he and his men.
and one in a certain place did charge thee saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him, or a son of man, that thou shouldest look after him?
Then in Israel, thus saith the man in his going to seek God, Come, let us go unto the seer,' for the `prophet' of to-day is called aforetime the seer.'
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did I not [save you] from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And he said unto Heli: I am he that came from the battle, and have fled out of the field this day. And he said unto him, What is there done, my son?
And this is the covenant which I will make unto them after those days, saith Jehovah. I will give my laws in their heart, and upon their minds will I write them:
And Samuel took a sucking-lamb, and offered it as a whole burnt-offering unto Jehovah; and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
And by faith Isaac, blessing Jacob, and Esau, told things to come.
And the vision was so overpowering that even Moses said, I will shake and full of fear.
But unto Hannah he would give a double portion because he loved Hannah, though Jehovah had closed her womb.
The Midianites, and the Amalekite and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like locusts for multitude; and their camels were without number: as the sand that is by the sea for multitude.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day and for ever.
quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made mighty out of weaknesses, became strong in battle, caused to give way camps of the aliens.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat: but his servants, together with the woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
Jehovah, when thou went down from Seir, when thou didst march from the region of Edom, the earth trembled, The heavens poured down, the clouds poured down water.
Should a man arise to pursue you and to seek thy life, may the life of my lord be wrapped in the bundle of the living with Jehovah thy God. But as for the life of your enemy, he will sling it from within the bosom of the sling!
So David inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Shall I go and smite these Philistines?" And Jehovah said unto David, "Go and smite the Philistines and save Keilah."
And David had taken Ahinoam of Jezreel, to be his wife; these two were his wives.
And she said unto him, "How canst thou say, 'I love you,' when your heart is not with me? Thou hast mocked me these three times, and have not told me where thy great strength lies."
Now he went out from the city of Beth-lehem, and desired to sojourn wheresoever he should find it is needful for him. And when he was come to the hill-country of Ephraim, as he was on his journey, and had turned aside a little into the house of Michas,
Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the cattle, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God: we have laid waste the rest."
of whom the world was not worthy. in deserts a stranger, and mountains, and in the caves and the clefts of the earth;
and he returned after days to take her, and turneth aside to see the carcass of the lion, and behold, a company of bees in the body of the lion and honey.
For God is true, and will not put away from him the memory of thy work, and of thy love for his name, in the help which thou gavest and yet give unto the saints.
Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit in justice, and walk by the way.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me and told me lies. Now tell me, I pray thee, with what thou mightest be bound.
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the forest, and Jonathan went to his house.
As for your asses which have been abroad for three days, forget to them; for they are gathered. And for whom are all her pleasant things in Israel? are they not for thee and thy father's own house also?
And every priest standeth every day serving and offering the same sacrifices often, which are never able to take away sins.
Then the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, answered, I came to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin, I and my servant-wife, for the purpose of stopped there for the night.
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem, which is better for you, that seventy persons, all sons of for. rule over you, or that one man rule over you? And remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And they gave him seventy weight of silver out of the temple of Baalberith: wherewith he hired to himself men that were needy, and will and followed him.
in the saying `new,' He hath made the first old, and what doth become obsolete and is old nigh disappearing.
And that night Jehovah said unto him, "Get up; go down against the camp, for I have given it into your hand.
Thou hast made him some little inferior to the angels; thou crownest him with glory and honor [and hast set him over the works of thy hands;]
The man rose up to depart; but his father-in-law urged him, and he tarried there again.
for of more glory than Moses hath this man be counted worthy forasmuch as more honor than the house hath he that should build it,
And blessed be thou, who hast kept me to day, from coming into blood, and avenging me with mine own hand.
So the man, the owner of the house, went out unto them and said unto them, "No, my brethren, make thyself overwise: wickedly; since this man hath come into my house, she that shall not do this thing.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the Holiest of all;
and also, the Pre-eminence of Israel doth not lie nor repent, for he not a man to be penitent.'
And because I am persuaded of this, I know that I shall abide and continue with all of you for thy progress and joy in the faith,
He will take your men-servants, and your maid-servants, diligence young men, and your asses, and appoint them to his own work.
Now it came to pass on the day when Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison which is on the other side. But he did not tell his father.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth.
He turned away from him toward another, and spake like that again; and the people answered him again the same way.
But one in a certain place hath borne witness, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And he presented the tribute to Eglon; king of Moab. Now Eglon, was a very fat man.
Who said unto his mother, The eleven hundred pieces of silver, which thou hadst put away for thyself, and concerning which thou didst swear in my hearing, behold, I have, and they are with me. And she said unto him, Blessed be my son by the Lord.
For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And he sent unto them a prophet, and he spake: Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I made you to come up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage,
And now give up the men the sons of fellow, that are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away the evil from Israel. But [the children of] Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
Again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the Tent, and it shall be, when any man shall come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was over the house. So they took counsel Jehovah and said, Shall we go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin our brethren, or shall we cease? And Jehovah said unto them, Go up, for to-morrow I will deliver them into your hand.
And David stopped his men with his words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. But Saul rising up out of the cave, went his way.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou speakest with me.
and she put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer; and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his head, when she had pierced and well stricken through his temples
And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
And David said to Abigal Jehovah, the God of Israel, be praised, that sent you unto me this day;
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, Whither went ye? And they said, To seek the asses: and not finding them we went to Samuel.
for also with my bonds ye sympathised, and the violence of thy goods with joy ye received, knowing that ye have in you a better substance in the heavens, and a mighty one.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are these all the young men? And he said, There is yet the youngest remaining, and, behold, he is feeding the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit at meat until he come hither.
And he smote them thigh and thigh with a great smiting, and went down and dwelt in a cleft of the rock Etam.
And the people gave him this answer, so shall it be done unto the man that overcometh him.
"This is the covenant that I will decree for them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my laws on their heart, and I will write them on their minds."
And behold, Saul cometh, following oxen out of the field, and he said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of the men of Jabes.
And he said unto them, "Watch me, and do likewise. Behold, when I come to the outermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
And if a man is risen up to pursue thee and to seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out from the hollow of the sling.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest all that Saul hath done, and how he hath rooted out the magicians and soothsayers from the land: why then shalt thou lay a snare for my life, to cause me to be put to death?
When your fathers tempted me, Proved me, and saw my works forty years.
And we desire each one of you to show the same earnest care for the full assurance of your hope until the end,
And by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a own child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
And it shall be, when Jehovah did unto my lord according to all the good which he hath spoken of thee, and set thee for prince over Israel,
and, because of this man, he ought even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Then Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves of bread, two skins of wine, five prepared sheep, five measures of and parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred fig cakes, and she put them on the asses.
And the men of Ziph, came to Saul in Gibeah, and saying, Behold, David is hid in the hill of Hachila, which is over against the wilderness.
And there were Hebrews with the Philistines before that time, that went up with them into the camp round about; and they also to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan;
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Chushan-rishathaim eight years.
And Saul was exceeding wroth, and this word was displeased with his eyes, and he said, They have given David ten thousands, and to me they have given but a thousand; what can he have more but the kingdom?
A blessing upon thine understanding and upon thee, that have kept me this day from the innocent blood and from taking into my hands the punishment for my transgressions.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the little ones of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so unto me?
And David prospered in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Levite pilgrimage on the side of the hill-country of Ephraim, who took unto him a concubine out of Beth-lehem-judah.
And the servant said unto him, "Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a man that is held in honor. All that he saith surely cometh to pass. Now let us go there. peradventure he can tell us which way to go."
And Saul commanded his servants, Speak with David secretly, saying, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son-in-law.
For such a high priest became us, holy, innocent. undefiled, separated from sinners, and become great above the heavens;
Now the house was full of men and women. and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that beheld while Samson made play.
that ye may judge of and approvest the things that are excellent, that ye may be pure and without offence for Christ's day,
Not as though I had even now received the reward or been made complete: but I walk in the hope that I may come to the knowledge of that for which I was made the servant of Christ Jesus.
And with grief in her soul, weep sore, and she made her prayer unto Jehovah.
and Saul chose him three thousand out of Israel; and two thousand are with Saul in Michmash, and in the hill-country of Beth-El; and a thousand have been with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the residue of the people he hath sent every man to his tent.
Then went Samson down with his father and his mother to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a young lion roared upon him.
Know ye that the brother Timothy is loosed, with whom, if he may come more shortly, I will see thee.
Howbeit Jonathan had not heard of the oath of his father with the host, so he extended the end of the staff which was in his hand, and he dipped it into the honeycomb. Then he put his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes gleamed.
and God's lamp hadn't yet gone out, and Samuel had laid down in Yahweh's temple, where God's ark was;
For it is impossible for them that were once illuminated, have tasted also the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Then Zebah and Zalmunna; said, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as is the man, so is strengthened. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna; and he took the moons that were on their camels' necks
And he answered and said unto her, Go. And he sent her away for two months. And when she was gone with her comrades and companions, she mourned her virginity in the mountains.
In that day will I perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house; I will begin and make an end.
And he went up from thence, he came to Phanuel: and he spake the like things to the men of that place. And they also answered him, as the men of Soccoth had answered.
And by faith Enoch was interpreted, that he should not see death; and was not; for God had carried over him; for before translation he hath the witness that he had pleased God.
In saying before, Sacrifices, and meal-offerings, and burnt-offerings for sin thou wouldest not, neither are they pleasing unto thee, which are offered according to the law.
Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats, which have not been profited them that have been keepers therein.
And he said unto them, "Out of the devourer came out food. Out of the strong came out sweetness." They couldn't in three days declare the riddle.
Then said Saul unto Achimelech: Hear, thou son of Ahitub, And he said, Here am I, my lord.
Now Jonathan rose up from the table in the heat of anger, and hath not eaten food on the second day of the new moon, for he was grieved for David, for his father put him to shame.
And by faith they passed through the Red Sea, as by dry land: which the Egyptians attempting, were swallowed up?
Now Jonathan went up creeping on his hands and feet, and his armorbearer after him. And some fell down before Jonathan, others his armorbearer slew as he followed him.
Then Manoah entreated Jehovah, and said, O Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. And the woman was wise and beautiful, but the man was stubborn and mean, and he was as his heart.
"I will remember their sins and their iniquities no more."
And she said, The glory is gone from Israel, for the ark of God hath been taken.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus dealeth Micah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
For if we do evil upon purpose after we have had the knowledge of the truth, there is no more oblation for sins,
For thou hast not come to the mountain that might be handled, and that burned with fire, and to blackness, darkness, storm,
for them in Hormah, for them in Bor Ashan, for them in Athach,
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees;
So David fled and escaped and came to Ramah, to Samuel, and told him the words of all Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
And they said, If thou cast away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it without an oblation, but send him a sin-offering with it: then thou shalt have peace again, and it shall know why the weight of his hand hath not been lifted from you.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and served the Baalim, the Ashtaroth, the gods of Syria, the gods of Sidon, the gods of Moab, the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines. And they forsook Jehovah, and didn't serve him.
And it answered them, Can I forsake my wine, that cheereth God and men, and be promoted among the other trees?
And the man rose up to gohe, his concubine, and his servantbut his father-in-law, the father of the damsel, said unto him, "Please, the day hath made on to even; please, spend the night, the day is at to a thee aside Spend the night here and enjoy thyself; and thou shall rise up early, to-morrow for your journey, and go unto thy home."
The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich; he humbleth and he exalteth.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, show me a sign that it was thou that speakest with me.
Wherefore let us go on from the first things about Christ to full growth; not build that whereon it was build my church; that is, the turning of the heart from dead works, and faith in God,
Now Jephthah was judge of Israel for six years. And Jephthah the Gileadite came to his death, and his body was put to rest in his city, Mizpeh of Gilead.
and he himself hath turned back from the graven images which at Gilgal, and said, It is the secret word I have unto thee, O king;' And he said, `Hush!' and go out from him do all them that stood by him.
calling the name of the city Dan after the name of their father, who was the son of Israel, which before was called Laish.
Therefore Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah as thou goest toward Shur that is before Egypt.
And the children of Israel returned from striving after the Philistines, and they despoiled their tents.
Now when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah arrived at the camp, all Israel let out a loud cry, so that the earth shook.
And by faith Abel offered unto God a sacrifice exceeding that of Cain, whereby he obtained a testimony that he was just, God giving testimony unto his gifts; and by it he being dead yet speaketh.
And when the children of Israel saw this in the battle (for the children of Benjamin thought they fled and pursued them vigorously, killing thirty men of their army)
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and he said unto her, "Behold, thou art be barren, and have not bear children, but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And when he had taken two men of Midian, Oreb and Zeb: Oreb they slew in the rock of Oreb: and Zeb in the winepress of Zeb. And they pursued Midian, bearing the heads of Oreb and Zeb to Gedeon beyond the waters of the Jordan.
For it is impossible that the blood of bullocks and goats should take away sins.
And the woman said, Whom shall I bring up to thee?' And he said, `Samuel even bring up to me.'
And he said unto them, "Micah did such and such for me and hired me, and I became his priest."
And the people came to Beth-el, waiting there until evening before God, and sold themselves to every one waileth, weeping abundantly.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and walkedst whither they could go. Saul was told that David was escaped from Keilah; and he gave up going there.
And David arose, and went he and his men, and smote the Philistines two hundred men, and David brought in their foreskins, and they set them before the king, to be son-in-law unto the king: and Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
So he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, "Whoever is not going out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen." Then the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people and they went out as one man.
And the princes of the Philistines brought unto her seven cords, such is he spake, wherewith she hath bound him;
Wherefore Saul returned, leaving work David, and went to meet the Philistines. For this cause they called that place, the Rock of division:
And having this confidence I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith;
Therefore Saul hurled the spear and thought, "I will pin David unto the wall." But David eluded him twice.
There was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites that could set whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and childless.
Therefore Saul took him out of him, and made him his equal to a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
God having provided some better thing concerning us, so that apart from us they should not be made perfect;
Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag the king of the Amalekite hither to me!" Agag came to him cheerfully. Agag said, "Surely the bitterness of death is past."
Behold, I will put the wool of a sheep on the threshing-floor, if there be dew upon the wool only, while all the earth is dry, then shall I know that ye think to give Israel salvation by my hand as thou hast said.
For it is impossible for the blood of bullocks and goats to take away sins.
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua, that the children of Israel ask of Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us unto the Canaanite, at the beginning, to fight against it?'
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old; and his eyes were set, that he could not see.
And by faith he that is called Abraham, obeyed to go forth into a place which he was to receive for an inheritance: and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
And Jehovah called again, Samuel! And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I did not call, my son: lie down again.
Gaal the son of Ebed said, "Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? Isn't he the son of Jerubbaal? Isn't Zebul his officer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem but why should we serve him?
Would that that one would put this people under my hand, that I may remove Abimelech out of the way. And it was said unto Abimelech; Gather up the multitude of an army, and come.
When Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, "Behold, the man of whom I spake unto thee; he will have power over my people."
Talk no more so exceeding proudly; let not arrogancy come out of thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him deeds are weight.
And his mother made him a little robe and brought it unto him every year when she came with her husband for the year's thereof.
but did empty himself, the form of a servant take, and in the likeness of men when there was made
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; let all your needs be my care; only do not take thy rest in the street.
Wherefore ye ought him in all things to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful priest in the sight of God, that he might be the propitiation for the sins of the people.
But exhort one another day by day, as long as it is called "today," so that none of you become hardened by the error of sin.
And Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? And he said, I am.
And the workman shall not be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make sword or spear;'
Then the woman hasted and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came to me that day.
And the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah, for men despised the oblation of Jehovah.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the narrow way of Michmash.
Then David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, saying, "Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp?" Abishai said, "I will go down with you."
So the law which went before is put on the one side, because it was feeble and without profit.
If therefore thou hast dealt well, and without fault with Jerobaal, and his house, rejoice ye this day in Abimelech, and may he rejoice in you.
Now therefore please beware and drink no wine nor strong drink, and don't eat any unclean thing;
Now he restored the silver to his mother, and his mother took two hundred silver-pieces and gave them unto the goldsmith, and and he made of them a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
For thou hast not yet withstood unto blood, strove against sin;
Howbeit all Israel, and Judah were loving David, for he was going forth and marching before them.
So Saul said unto his servant, "Look, we may go, but what must we bring to the man? For the bread is gone from our sacks, and there is no tribute to bring to the man of God. What have I to do with us?"
His concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Beth-lehem Judah, and was there for four, months.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehemjudah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
for the whole seek their own things, not the things of the Christ Jesus,
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, and smote of the people seventy men; and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
And pitching their tents among them, wasted all things as they were in the blade even unto the entrance of Gaza: and they left nothing at all in Israel for sustenance of life, nor flock, nor oxen, nor asses.
For we enter into the rest that have believed; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest; although the works had been fulfilled from the foundation of the world.
And David came and Abishai even unto the people by night, and, behold, Saul is lying sleeping in the path, and his spear smote into the earth at under his head, and abner and the people are lying round about him.
And she said unto her father: Give me only this which I desire: Let me go, that I may go about the mountains for two months, and should mourn for my virginity with my fellows.
and Judah went unto the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron (and the name of Hebron beforetime Kirjath-Arba), and they smote Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And when the messengers were come in, and found an image upon the bed, and a goat's skin at its head.
And it shall come to pass, at his turning his shoulder to go from Samuel, that God turneth unto him another heart, and all these signs come on that day,
She wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted; and on the seventh day, he told her, because she thrust him severely; and she told the dark saying unto the children of her people.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, do that which is good in thy sight: tarry till thou hast weaned him; only, may Jehovah fulfil his word. And the woman sitting down, and gave her son suck until she weaned him.
Now in those days the Philistines gathered the battle for war to fight against Israel. So Achish said unto David, "Certainly ye that there is thou shalt go forth with me in the host, thou and thy men."
And he ran to Heli and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I did not call: go back and sleep. And he went and slept.
And the children of Israel said unto the Lord, We are wicked; do unto it seemeth good unto you, only deliver us this day.
Who waxed daily stronger, and with a mighty hand down Jabin king of Canaan, till they utterly destroyed him.
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? For whom are ye searching? for a dead dog, an insect.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will destroy him: the natural day of his death shall come, or else he will go into the fight and pass away.
And here indeed, men that die, receive thithes: but there he hath witness, that he shall live.
And Saul said, Bring all the corners of the people: and know, and see by whom this sin is become of day.
Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves.
So that mine bonds became manifest [as being] in Christ in all the Praetorium, and to all others;
So now go back, and go in peace, so that ye make not the lords of the Philistines wroth.
And when they had told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they thus they also; and Saul addeth and sent messengers a third time, and they thus they also.
Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, give a song: Arise, Barak, and take prisoner them that brought thee prisoner, O son of Abinoam.
and she put her left hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workman's hammer and she smote Sisera, seeking in his head a place for the wound, and strongly piercings through his temples
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of the things which were to be spoken after.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and served Baal.
Jehovah will be the judge, and let him judge between me and thee, and will he see and plead my cause. He will Judge me, against you!"
And the servants of David came to Abigal to Carmel, and spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee to be his wife.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people secure, and to a large land: for God will deliver it into your hands; a place where there is no want of anything that is in the earth.
Then Gideon took ten of his servants and did as Jehovah had said unto him; but fearing to do it by day, because of his father's people and the men of the city, he did it by night.
And when he was gone away from the prophets, he came to the house.
and a small upper coat shall his mother make unto him, and she hath brought it up to him from time to time in her coming up with her husband to sacrifice the sacrifice of time.
Then Gideon, the son of Joash returned from the fight:
who shall fashion the body of our humiliation to its being conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working of his power, even to subject to himself the all things.
Then answered endureth which was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub,
And Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, saying, Send me David thy son, who with the flock.'
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots, of iron; and twenty years he powerfully oppressed the children of Israel.
Saul came to the city of Amalek, and lay a snare in the valley.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of God hath been abideth a priest continually.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines fled, and they also followed hard after them in the battle.
For if that first covenant had been as good as possible, there would have been no place for a second.
They compassed the Benjamites, pursued them, and trod them down at their resting-place, as far as near Gibeah toward the sunrising.
For he did not subject to angels the world to come, whereof we are speaking.
And Deborah said unto Barak, Up; for this is the day in which Jehovah hath delivered Sisera, into thy hand: is not Jehovah gone out before thee? So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
The children of Benjamin were numbered on that day out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, that were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
and watch and, behold, when the daughters of Shiloh dance in the dances, come out from the vineyards and take you a wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And when they were by Jebus, the day was far all spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn in into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.
For whom Jehovah loveth he chastens, and a scourge every son whom he receives."
who hath been made, not after the law of a fleshly commandment, but after the power of an endless life:
And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And sent messengers privately unto Abimelech; saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Obed is come into Shechem with his brethren, and endeavoureth to set the city against thee.
And David is the youngest, and the three eldest are gone after Saul,
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up; and it shall be, that the man that killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And they said unto him, "No, we will only bind thee, and give thee into their hand; we will certainly not kill you." So they bound him in two new ropes and they brought him up from the rock.
and messengers he hath sent into all Manasseh, and it also is called after him; and messengers he hath sent into Asher, and into Zebulun, and into Naphtali, and they come up to meet them.
Woe unto us! Who can deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods? These are the same gods that smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the desert.
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee and come; for the Philistines have made a raid against the land.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days' respite, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel: and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come out to thee.
and my God shall supply as thou shalt need; according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus:
And the men of the city said to Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the Asherah that was by it.
In those days was there no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day all their inheritance had not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.
They near Jebus, and the day is gone greatly down, and the young man said unto his lord, Come, I pray thee, and we turn aside unto this city of the Jebusite, and lodge in it.'
And the two months were past, she returned unto her father, and he did to her as he had dedicated, and she knew no man. From thence came a fashion in Israel, and a custom, hath been kept:
And see, and take knowledge of all the lurking-places where he hideth himself, and come ye again unto me with sure it, that I may go with thee; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout the thousands of Judah.
Then said Micah, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, because I have the Levite for priest.
And the border of the Amorite was from the ascent of the scorpion, the rock, and the upper places.
Then said he, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
When thou goest from me this day, thou shalt meet two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek, and behold, thy father hath dismissed the matter of the asses, and is anxious concerning you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And Jehovah said unto Gedeon: The people are yet too many, bring them to the waters, and there will I try them; and of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, let him go: whom I shall forbid to go, let him return.
And Saul inquired of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?' but he answered him in that day.
For to which of the angels said he ever, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be to him for father, and he shall be to me for son?
but to that which we have come even by the same rule walk, the same thing think;
And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, "Please bring the ephod hither to me." Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is Sweeter also than And what stronger than a lioness, And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, Ye had not found out my riddle.
Therefore Saul went down to the earth, and he was afraid, because of Samuel's words: and there was no strength in him; for he had taken no bread all that day or all that night.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah: and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
For he of whom these things are said cometh of another tribe, of which no man ever sacrificed at the altar.
And may you, while I am yet alive O may ye be gracious unto me, as the Lord is kind, and keep me from death:
Saul said, "God do so and more also; for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan."
But comfort one another every day as long as it is yet Today; so that none among you may be made hard by the deceit of sin;
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come unto us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be favorable unto them for our sake it was written: because we reserved not to each man his wife in the war: for ye did not give unto them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
And about the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast born a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.
And the battle is hard against Saul, and the archers find him, men with bow and he is pained greatly by the archers,
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Abide with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; for with me thou art in safe keeping.
Did I then begin to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: Let not the king impute anything unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and sucklings and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And they took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had delivered thee to day into my hand in the cave, and some bade me slay thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the Lord's anointed.
And Samuel said unto the roast Bring the portion which I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Then said Jehovah unto Gideon, There are yet more people than is necessary: take them down to the water that I may prove them, for you there; then whosoever I say is to go with thou shalt go, and whosoever I say is not to go will not go.
And the angel of Jehovah came unto the woman, and said unto her, See now! though ye have never borne children, ye will be with child and bring forth a son.
Jonathan spake good of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, "Don't let the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against you, and because his works are very good toward you;
And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision.
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob. Outlaws joined up with Jephthah, and they went out with him.
And he had forty sons and thirty son's son, that rode upon seventy ass colts. And he judged Israel eight years.
And the princes of the Philistines assembled together, to offer great sacrifices unto Dagon their gods, and to make merry, saying, Our god hath delivered our enemy Samson into our hands.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
But after Gedeon was dead, the children of Israel turned again, and committed fornication with the Baalim. And they made a covenant with Baal, that he should be their god;
And he knew not at all that which was doing: for only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
for the daughters of Israel to go and lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite forty days of the year.
So from that day and forward. he made it a statute and a law for Israel unto this day.
Then Jerobaal, who is the same as Gideoni, rising up early and all the people with him, came to the fountain that is called Harad. Now the camp of Midian was in the valley on the north side of the high hill.
So that I was wroth with this generation, and I said, Their heart is in error at all times, and they have not known my ways:
And this word, Yet once more, signifieth as those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.
Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. Then Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as beforetime.
And Samuel taketh Saul, and his young man, and brought them into the chamber and gave them a place at the head of those invited, and about thirty men.
And the Philistines were gathered together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and an army like sand which is upon the sea-shore; and And they came up and encamped in Michmas, east of Beth-aven.
Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba; and the Philistines heard of it. Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear!"
[it is told] to the Gazites, saying, `Samson shall come in hither;' and they went about it, and lay wait for him all the night at the gate of the city, and keep themselves silent all the night, saying, How the light of the morning, then we have slain him.'
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not suffer wrong, and we didn't miss anything, as long as we went with them, when we were in the field.
And David said to Abigal "Blessed is Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me!
Samson said, "With the jaw through of an ass, heaps on heaps; with the jaw through of an ass I have smitten a thousand men."
And Jael wife of Heber, took the pin of the tent, and took the hammer in her hand, and went unto him softly, and smiteth the pin into his palaces; and it fasteneth in the earth, and he hath been fast asleep, and is weary and he died.
Now on the morrow, the people went out into the field, and tidings of it came unto Abimelech;
And he said unto Jether, his first-born, "Get up, kill them." But the lad drew not his sword, for he was afraid because he was yet a man.
And the Amorites, straitened the children of Dan in the mountain, and gave them not place to go down to the plain:
And the woman came at the dawning of the day, and fell down at the entrance of the man's house where her lord was, until it was light.
Jonathan arose from the table fret themselves, and did not eat on the second day of the new moon because he was sore troubled about David, because his father had put to shame him.
And the woman came to Saul (for he was very much troubled) and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand; and I hearkened unto the words which yea, thou spakest unto me.
And Gaal addeth yet to speak, and said, Behold, people are coming down from the high part of the land, and another soldiers cometh by the way of the oak of Meonenim.'
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me from the least even unto the greatest of them:
for every command having been spoken, according to law, by Moses, unto all the people, he took the blood of the calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, he both the book itself and all the people did doth
For indeed, though ye ought to be teachers by this time, ye have need of one to teach you again the beginning rudiments of the oracles of God, and ye have need of milk, not pure food.
And Abigail saw David, and hasteth and he came down from off the ass, and fell down at David on her face, and bowed herself to the earth,
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And she made an oath, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if ye will truly take knowledge of the sorrow of thy servant, he departed not from me but keeping me in mind, and will give me a man-child, then I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life; And his hair shall never be reaped.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot declare unto thee.
Make my joy ago, which was of the same mind having the same love, being in unity and of the same mind;
Be free from the love of money and pleased with the things which ye have: for he himself hath said, I will be with you at all times.
(At that time also when they were in Shiloh, none of them was found stone.
I said unto you, "I am Jehovah your God: ye shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell." But ye have not hearkened unto my voice.'"
Then the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.
So David's young men turned their way, and went again, and came and told him all those sayings.
And the woman came as the morning appeared; and she fell at the entrance of the man's house where her master was, until the day.
Here I am; testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I injured? or of whose hand received I any ransom and blinded mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it unto you.
Samuel said unto all the people, "Do ye see him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people?" And all the people shouted, and said, "Long live the king!"
And answer doth endureth that was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I have seen the son of Jesse coming in to Nob, unto Ahimelech the son of Ahitub,
On the morrow when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, "Come down against Midian, and take from them the waters up to and Barah and the Jordan." And he called out all the men of Ephraim, and they took the waters up to and Barah and the Jordan.
And Samuel answered Saul and said, I am the seer. go up before me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me this day; and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
So Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: then the Spirit of Jehovah rushed upon David from that day on. Then Samuel arose, and went to Ramah:
and Abimelech had fought against the city all that day, and took the city, and the people that were therein, he slew, and he brake down the city, and soweth it salt.
And the power of the children of Israel strengthened against Jabin, king of Canaan, till he was cut off.
For he hath been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, because he who built the house is more honor than the house.
yea, I ask thee also, true yokefellow, assist them, that have contended with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and my other fellow-labourers, whose names in book of life.
Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and of long continuance, and which entereth into that within the veil;
So Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel. And for fourscore years the land had peace.
And Samson went down to Timnah, and he saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Abigail came to Nabal: and, behold, he had a feast in his house, like the feast of a king: and Nabal's heart was merry: for he was very drunk: and she told him nothing less or more until the morning.
Then shalt thou go on from thence, and when thou comest to the oak of Tabor, ye shall see three men going up to God to Beth-el, one having with him three kids of the goats and another three loaves and another a skin full of wine:
This is the covenant which I will establish toward them after those days, saith Jehovah: giving my laws into their own heart, I will write them also in their understandings;
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron standeth before it in those days, yet again, saying, Shall I go out to battle with the children of Benjamin, my brother, or am I cease?' And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I give him into thy hand.'
And Saul commanded his servants to speak unto David privately, saying, Behold, thou pleasest the king, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son in law.
who through faith smote kingdoms, did righteousness, gathered their reward, kept the mouth of lions shut,
But Yahweh's Spirit came upon Gideon, and he blew the trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered together to followed him.
Wherein God, willing more exceedingly to show unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by a bond,
They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera.
Moreover see and know, O my father, the skirts of thy robe in my hand, that, when I cut, off the skirts of thy robe, I would not put out my hand against thee. Reflect, and see that there is no evil in my hand, nor iniquity, neither have I sinned against thee; but thou shalt lie in wait for my life, To take it away.
Then said Saul to the people that were with him, Muster now, and see that is gone from us. And they numbered, and, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
Put out the power of fire, escaped from the edge of the sword, were made strong when they had been feeble, became full of power in war, and put to flight the hosts of the nations.
And Saul said, Cast between me and Jonathan my son;' and Jonathan is taken.
Since the day that the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, the time was grown; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
The Philistine, said unto David, "Come to me that I may give your flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field!"
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
Who serve unto the ensample and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, Behold, saith he that thou make all things after the pattern showed thee in the mount.
The one rock went up on the north in front of Michmash and the other on the south in front of Gibeon.
And Achish answered and said unto David, I know that thou good in mine eyes as an angel of God; only, the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us into battle;
But not a man put his hand unto his mouth for fear of the curse.
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and cast out me out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in trouble?
We shall come to a people that is secure, into a large country; and Jehovah will deliver the place to us, wherein there is no want of anything that groweth upon the earth.
And the Philistine, said unto David, Am I a dog that thou art come unto me with staves?' and the Philistine, curseth David by his gods,
And between the passages, whereby Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines' garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
for it is God that worketh in you both the willing and the working according to good pleasure.
And that night God did so; for the wool was dry, and there was dew upon all the earth round it.
Till now thou hast not given thy blood in your fight against sin;
and Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me go over, I pray thee, through thy land, and the king of Edom hearkened not; and also unto the king of Moab hath sent, and he hath not been willing; and Israel abideth in Kadesh,
And to leave the innocent blood from the murder of the seventy sons of Jerobaal, and shed their blood upon Abimelech their brother, and upon the rest of the princes of Shechem, that aided him.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Ceila: and Saul said, Jehovah hath delivered him into my hands, and he is shut up, having come into a city, that hath gates and bars thereof.
And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And he put his hand into his wallet, and took a stone, and cast it with the sling, and fetching it about smote the Philistine, in the forehead: and the stone was inclosed in his forehead, and he fell upon his face upon the earth.
Wherefore seeing we also are compassed with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so quickly beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
But if ye are afraid, go down to the camp with Purah thy servant,
Even as it is meet for me to consider this of you all, because I have you in my heart; forasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and would be confirmed. of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
and I have drawn unto thee, unto the brook Kishon, Sisera, captain of the host of Jabin, and his chariot, and his multitude, and have given him into thy hand.'
What shall come upon us, if we do not give our minds to such a great salvation? a salvation of which our fathers knew through the words of Jehovah, and which was made certain unto us, to whom his words came;
Because it is like the sin of witchcrafts, to rebel; and like the innocent blood from idolatry, to refuse to give ear. Forasmuch therefore as thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, Jehovah hath also rejected thee from being king.
And God do so and so, and add unto the adversaries of David, if I leave of all that appertain unto him until the morning; any that pisseth against the wall.
And the peace of God, which passeth understanding, keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
And she said unto her father, "Let this thing be done for me. Leave me alone two months, that I may depart and go down upon the mountains, and bewail my virginity; I and my companions."
But Hannah did not go up, for she said unto her husband, "Once the lad is weaned: I will bring him, so that he may appear before Jehovah; and he shall abide there forever."
doing nothing through faction or through conceit but in humility, each thou numberest others better than himself;
For I will be merciful toward their doings that and I will not remember their sins any longer."
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned away from following me, and hath not fulfilled my words: and Samuel was much grieved: and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
so I sware in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest.
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will be put to shame in nothing, but with all boldness, even now as always Christ shall be exalted in my body, whether through life or through death.
But Anna went not up; for she said unto her husband, Behold now, I will not go until the child be weaned: and till I may carry him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and may abide always there.
And he put to the sword Nob, the city of the priests, from man to woman, From child to little children and ox and ass and sheep; all to the sword.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and given the army that came unto us into our hand.
Then Gaal, the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem take refuge in him.
and the Asherite dwelleth in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, for it hath not drive them.
Thou wilt look upon the distress of my dwelling-place, despite all the good caused for Israel, but there shall never be an old man in thy household for ever.
And David said, "Yahweh, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion and from the hand of the bear, shall deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine!" Therefore Saul said unto David, "Go and Jehovah be with you!"
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Shechem; and the inhabitants of Shechem arose false unto Abimelech;
And Jehovah delivered him with all his host into the hand of Israel; and he slew him, and possessed all the land of the Amorite the inhabitant of that country;
And Samuel was judge of Israel all the days of his life.
Samuel said, "Then what saith this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the cattle which I hear mean?"
Now therefore, O king, have your soul's desire and come down, and we, for our part, shall deliver him into the king's hands.
Now Saul had pity; also the people on Agag, And on the best of the flock and of the herd, and of the seconds, and on the lambs, and upon all that good, and would not utterly destroyed them; and all the work, despised and wasted it they utterly destroyed.
And when these signs come unto you, do thou that which thy hand findeth to do, for God will be with you.
Whosoever shall first come forth out of the doors of my house, and shall meet me when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, the same will I offer a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the heads of the Philistines say, What are these Hebrews?' and Achish said unto the heads of the Philistines, Is not this David servant of Saul king of Israel, who hath been with me these days or these years, and I have not found in him anything of the day of his falling away unto this day.'
And ye shall not go from the right way turning to them false gods in which there is no profit and no salvation, for they are profuse.
I press toward the mark, even to the righteous, the supernal calling of God in Christ Jesus.
So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them; and Jephthah said all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And by faith he kept the passover and the sprinkling of blood, that he that destroyed the first-born would not touch them.
And the handle also went in after the sickle; and the fat closed over the blade because he drew not back the sword from his bowels and it went protruding out the back.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And David and his men went up, and invaded the Geshurites, and the Gezrites, and the Amalekites: for those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest unto Shur even unto the land of Egypt.
"The trees went verily, to anoint a king over themselves. And they said unto the olive-tree, 'Rule over us.'
And the destroyer went out from the camp of the Philistines even three detachments; the one soldiers turneth unto the way of Ophrah, unto the land of Shual;
Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, "Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also; for thou hast saved us out of the hand of Midian."
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he said unto thee.
And the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him.
Then the elders of the assembly said, What shall we do about wives for the rest of them, when he saw that the women of Benjamin are dead?
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But I will send a lad, saying unto him, Go and fetch me the arrows.
And David said to his men, put on thy swords, every one of you. And every man put on his sword; and David did the same; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred kept watch over their goods.
And she had liers-in-wait abiding in the chamber: and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he brake the cords, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire; and his strength was known.
So then, hand over the men, the perverse lot, that are in Gibeah, so that we may slay them, and put away this wickedness from Israel." But the children of Benjamin were not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
But the children of ungodliness said, Shall this fellow be able to save us? And they despised him, and brought him no presents, but he dissembled as though he heard not.
And they went down from the high place into the city, and he spake with Saul upon the top of the house; and he prepared a bed for Saul on the top of the house, and he slept.
So the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts sitting upon the cherubim, and the two sons of Heli, Ophni, and Phinehas, were with the ark of the covenant of God.
These all died in faith, not having received the promises; but when he saw them, and embraced them from afar, and having confess that they were strangers and pilgrims upon the earth.
Samuel said unto the roast "Bring the portion which I gave thee, whereof I said unto you, 'Set it aside.'"
They went out into the field and heapeth their vineyards and trod them, and they held holyday. And they went into the house of their gods, and they did eat and drink and cursed Abimelech;
Naphtali didn't drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of and Anath; but he dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land. Nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of and Anath became subject to taskwork.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
Then the horse hoofs stamped because of the prancing, the and prancing of their strong ones.
If thy father sinneth against me at all, that thou shalt say, 'David earnestly asked from me to run to Beth-lehem his city, for the yearly sacrifice is there for all the clan.'
And when the people had come to the forest, behold, honey was dripping, but no man put his hand unto his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
A lack of madmen I, that ye have brought in this one to do, as a madman by me! doth this one come in unto my house?'
But the lad knew not what would go further. only Jonathan and David had knowledge of it.
and may be found in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but which is through faith, in Christ, the righteousness from God by faith,
Go, and cry out unto the gods whom ye have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of your trouble."
So then take your stand, that I may judge you before Jehovah in respect of all the works of righteousness of Jehovah, which he performed with both ye and your fathers.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go and descend to the mountains, and bewail my virginity; I and my fellows.
And being consummated, are asleep. to them that obey him, the cause of eternal salvation.
But I am in a dilemma between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better.
For Jehovah will make thee as he spake by me, and he shall rend thy kingdom out of thy hand, and will give it to thy neighbor David:
And they showed Sisera, that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up to mount Tabor.
For thou art with child and shall bring forth a son; his hair is never to be cut, for the child is to be separate unto God from his forth; and he shall take up the work of redemption Israel from the hand of the Philistines.
Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and were departed from Saul.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was young.
For he was yet in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him.
In those days there is no king in Israel; each did that which was right in his own eyes;
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went every man to their own inheritance to possess the land.
where your fathers tempted me by proof and saw my works
How much more if the people had well eaten this day of the spoil of its enemies which it hath gotten, of for now, the slaughter hath not been great among the Philistines.'
And David was greatly grieved: and for the people spake of stoneth him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David comforted himself in Jehovah his God.
Then his father and his mother said unto him, Is there not a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said unto his father, Get her for me; for she pleaseth me well.
And the men did so; they took two kine, yoking them to the cart and shut up their young ones in there:
And it came to pass, because she distressed him with her words all the days, and shall press upon him, and his soul is grieved to death,
For rebellion is the sin of divination, And self-will is iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, He hath also rejected thee from being king.
All the rest of thy household will come to bow down before him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread, and will say, "Please appoint me unto one of the priest's offices that I may eat a morsel of bread."'"
But the man would not tarry the night; and he rose up and departed, and went over against Jebus, (the same is Jerusalem); and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine was with him.
that in the days of his flesh both prayers and supplications unto him that was able to save him from death, with strong crying and tears when they offered up, and having been heard in respect to that which he feared,
They were a wall unto us both night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
Also before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed. Give flesh to roast for the priest; for he will not have boiled flesh of thee, but raw.
After him Abdon, the son of Illel, a Pirathonite, judged Israel:
And they arose, and went to Ziph, before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of Jeshimon.
And indeed many are become priests, because they were forbidden of death from continuing in office,
Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, that went up with them into the camp from the region round about, even they also turned to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan;
And Adonibezec said, Seventy kings having their fingers and toes cut off, gathered up the leavings of the flesh under my table. as I have done, so hath God recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
And the king sat upon his throne, as at the other times, even upon a seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
And when he entered into his house he took a knife; and he took hold of his concubine and cut her into twelve pieces; and he sent her throughout all the country of Israel.
What thou hast done is not good. As Jehovah liveth, death is for you, because ye have not kept watch over your lord, the man upon whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil. Now, behold, where is the king's spear, and the vessel of water, which was by his own head.
For they, their cattle, and their tents would come up like a great number of the locusts, and they and their camels could not be numbered; they came into the land and devoured it.
And David answered and said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and unto Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, that say, Who will go down with me unto Saul, unto the camp?' and Abishai said, I will go down with thee.'
But Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of Elah, fought against the Philistines.
And the young men of David turn upon their way, and turn again, and came and told him according to all these words.
For some that heard did provoke: but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon, and the armies: very weary.
and the name of the wife of Saul Ahinoam, daughter of Ahimaaz, and the name of the head of his host Abner the son of Ner, uncle of Saul;
and changed his manner of life before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scratched on the doors of the gate, and let his issue spit fall down upon his beard.
According to all the works that they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh, for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh through the word of Jehovah.
And he said, This is the manner of king that will be your ruler: he shall take thy sons and make them his servants, his horsemen, and cypress spears of his chariots, and they shall go running before his chariots with him:
He will take your men-servants, and your servant-girls, and the first-fruits of your oxen and your asses and put them to his work.
And Benjamin went out from Gibeah to meet them on the second day, and they smote down the children of Israel again, eighteen thousand men to the ground; all these were sword-wielding.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knowledge?
Paul and Timothy, bondservants of Christ Jesus, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are in Philippi, together with the officers, and deacons.
And Ehud, shall come unto him, and he was sitting in the upper chamber of the wall which he hath for himself, and Ehud, said, The word of God I have unto thee;' and he rose up from off the throne;
His fellow answered, "This is nothing other than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash a man of Israel. God hath delivered Midian into his hand, with all the army."
And a man from thence answered and said, "And who is their father?" Therefore it became a time, saying, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
Now the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before, and that went up with them into the camp, round about, even they also turned to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan;
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again: Behold, I and my children whom God hath given me.
For indeed our God is a devouring fire.
And when the men came in, there was the image in the bed, with the cushion of goat's hair in its head
Now Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, for we two have taken an oath, in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and you and my seed and thy seed for ever. And David went away, and Jonathan went into the city.
Then he turned from him unto another, and saith according to this word, and the people return him word as the first word.
And the priest said, Here is the sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of Terebinth, wrapped up in a cloth behind the ephod; if thou wilt take this, take it, for here is no other than this. And David said, There is none like that, give it me.
And this hope is like a strong band for our souls, appointed and certain, and go in to that which is within the veil:
For no where shall he take hold of the angels: but of the seed of Abraham he took stronghold.
While he was yet speaking unto them, the champion, whose name was Goliath the Philistine, from Gath, was coming up from the caves of the Philistines. And he spake even as he had in time past; and David heard his words.
And Abiathar, one of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, escaped and fled, and went after David;
And the children of Israel put away the Baalim and the Ashtoreths and served Jehovah only.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, "Don't look on his face, or on the height of his stature, because I have rejected him; for I don't see as man seeth: For man looketh on the appearance, but Jehovah looketh on the heart."
and the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's weavers', and the flame of his spear six hundred shekels of iron, and the bearer of the buckler goeth before him.
Manoah said unto Yahweh's angel, "What is thy name, that when your words come to pass, we may honor you?"
And when she was come to her husband she said unto him, A man of God came to me, having the countenance of an angel, very awful. And when I asked him that he was, and whence he came, and by what name, he was called, he would not tell me.
as I sware in my wrath, 'They shall not enter into my rest.'"
And when the men of Israel withdrew in the battle, Benjamin began to smite and kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons: for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.
And his mother made him a little coat, and brought it to him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to sacrifice the yearly sacrifice.
And David and Jonathan made a covenant, for be loved him as his own soul.
Now the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
Now then stand, and see this great thing which Jehovah will do in thy sight.
And it is true that by the law, them of the sons of Levi that have the person of priests shall take a tenth part of the people's goods; that is to say, they take it from their brethren though these are the sons of Abraham.
And she said, Thy servant have found favor in thy sight. And the woman went away, and took part in the feast, and her face was no more sad.
And the man went out of the city of Beth-lehem in Judah to sojourn whithersoever he could find a place. And he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, to continue his journey.
And when he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the parlour were all safety, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.
And again, if the fathers of our flesh gave us punishment and had our respect, how much more shall we be under the authority of the Father of spirits, and live?
And his servants told David these words: and the thing was right in David's sight to be the king's son-in-law. And the days were not fulfilled,
because my father hath fought for you, and shall cast away his life from it, and deliver you out of the hand of Midian:
Being circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews: according to the law, a Pharisee:
And the Philistines put the battle in array against Israel, and the battle was hardened, and Israel was carried away with the Philistines, that put to the sword about four thousand of their host in the field.
But you this day have rejected your God, who only hath saved you out of all your evils and your afflictions, and thou hast said, Nay; but set a king over us; now therefore stand before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy families.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, "There are yet too much people. Bring them down to the water, and I will try them for you there. And it shall be, that those whom I say unto you, 'This shall go with you,' the same shall go with thee; and whosoever I say unto you, 'This shall not go with you,' the same shall not go."
Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the army of the Lord? for they had bound themselves with a great oath, when they were in Mizpah, that whosoever were wanting, he should be slain.
so that we may be as all the nations, and our king may rule us and go out before us and fight our battles."
Let us therefore go out to him without the camp, bearing the reproach.
But he himself, return from the stone images at Gilgal, said, I have somewhat to say unto you in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be quiet. Then all them that stood before him went out.
saying, "I will declare thy name unto my brethren: In the midst of of the congregation I will sing your praise."
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And after searching with fearfulness; and they said, Gideon, the son of Joash hath done this thing.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem Judah before coral whose name was Jesse, that had eight sons and was an old man in the days of Saul, and of great age among men.
Every high priest that is taken from among men is given his array to take care of the interests of men in those things which to do with God, that he may sacrifice for sins.
of the teaching of baptisms, of laying on also of hands, of resurrection also of the dead, and of judgment is an everlasting
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went every one to his house.
The inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
then they said unto him, "Now say 'Shibboleth;'" and he said "Sibboleth"; for he couldn't rule to pronounce it right: then they laid hold on him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time, forty and two thousand of Ephraim fell.
And the children of Israel have not remembered Jehovah their God, that delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about,
For a will is in force concerning them that are dead, since it is never in force when he that made the will is alive.
Brethren, be imitators together of me, and inscribe them that walk this way, even as thou hast us for Envy
Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead so many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea-shore innumerable.
But we are not of them that go back to destroy: but of them that believe even to the salvation of the soul.
And so it came to pass, that all that were slain of Benjamin in divers places were five and twenty thousand valiant men, men of valor.
And she made haste, and ran to her husband; and told him saying, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me that I saw aforetime.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath made him governor over his people; for thou hast not kept what Jehovah commanded thee.
Now go and smite Amalek, and destroy utterly all that they have, and spare them not, but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.
And Jesus went about in the land of Edom, at the side, and the land of Moab: and came over against the east border of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon: and he would not enter the bounds of Moab.
But the child Samuel advanced, and waxed on, and pleased both the Lord and men.
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father-in-law, the young lady's father said unto him, "Behold, now the day draweth toward evening, please tarry all night. Behold, the day is ending. Tarry here, that thy heart shall be joyful: and to-morrow go on your way early, that ye may go home."
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine, of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the host of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.
I know how to be humbled; and I know also how to abound; In everything and in all things have I learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to abound and to want.
And began to cry aloud after them: They looked back, and said unto Michas: What aileth thee? Why dost thou cry?
And when the citizens of that place saw him, they brought him thirty companions to be with him.
And it was known unto all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba, that Samuel had been made a prophet of Jehovah.
and now turn back, and go in peace, and thou shalt do no evil in the sight of the princes of the Philistines.'
And Abimelech and all the host that was with him rose up by night, and they lay in ambush against Shechem in four divisions.
by faith, Joseph dying, concerning the end of the children of Israel did make mention and concerning his bones gave commandment.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul's tents were: and David had a spy out of the place where Saul was sleeping with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army; and Saul was sleeping within the ring of litters, and the tents of the people were round about him.
And Eli is a son of ninety and eight years; and his eyes have stood, and he was not able to see.
And Hannah riseth after eating in Shiloh, and after drinking, and Eli the priest sitteth upon the throne by the side-post of the temple of Jehovah.
And David said, Jehovah who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So David hid himself in the field. When the new moon came, the king was sitting at the feast.
waiting from henceforth until his enemies be set [for the] footstool of his feet.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their gods, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath given Samson our enemy into our hands.
And the young man arose to set forward according to his wife, and servant. And his father-in-law spake unto him again: Consider that the day is declining, and draweth toward evening: tarry with me to-day also, and spend the day in mirth and to-morrow thou shalt depart, that thou mayest go unto thy house.
And Dalila said unto him, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and hast told me a false oath: but now at least tell me wherewith thou mayest be bound.
And it came to pass the same night, that the Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
And Eli called Samuel, and said, `Samuel, my son;' and he said, Here am I.'
And when Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and sore afraid.
And the ark of God was taken: and Hophni and Phinehas, the sons of Eli, are slain by the sword.
And David said to Abner, "Aren't you a man? Who is like unto you in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept watch over your lord, the king? For one of the people came in to destroy the king thy lord.
And David rose up early in the morning, and give the sheep to a shepherd, took the things and went as Jesse commanded him, and came to the lines where the wagons were, when the army was going forth to war giving their war-cry.
of anything that cometh out of his wine-vine she shall not eat, and wine and strong drink she shall not drink any unclean thing she shall not eat; all that I have commanded her she shall observe.'
Now I desire to show unto you, brethren, that the cause of the gospel hath been helped by my experiences;
so also the Christ did not glorify himself to become chief priest, but He that spake unto him, My Son thou art, this day have I begotten thee;'
Then they arose and went to Ziph, before Saul. And David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon in the Arabah, to the south of Jeshimon.
in burnt-offerings, and concerning the sin-offerings, Thou didst not delight,
And the children of Israel kept not in their minds Jehovah their God, who had been them from all their enemies on every side;
And what Samuel had said happened unto all Israel. And Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped beside Eben-ezer; and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
The Sichemites also were rewarded for that which they had done, and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerobaal came upon them.
And there came a man of God to Heli, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I not plainly appear unto thy father's house, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharao?
But though I am poured out as a drink-offering on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I will be glad and rejoice with you all.
And it was told Saul that David had been seen, and the men that were with him; for now Saul was in Gibeah, sitting under the tree in the high place, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants stood before him.
The children of Benjamin did so, and took wives for themselves, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they carried off: and they went and returned to their inheritance, built the cities, and dwelt in them.
And David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath;
And the children of Israel add to do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah when Ehud, is dead,
And Saul said to his servant, Thy word is very good; come, let us go. And they went into the city, where the man of God was.
And the priest's custom with the people was, that, when any man had burned incense, the priest's servant came, while the flesh was in seething, with a fleshhook of three teeth in his hand;
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain: and David made haste to get away for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
though I myself might have confidence even in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath confidence in the flesh, I yet more;
Then David arose, and came to the place where Saul had remained encamped, and according David saw the place where Saul lay, with Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army. Saul lay within the place of the wagons, and the people were encamped round about him.
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of Baal Berith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light fellows, that followed him.
And when Delilah saw that he had let her see into his heart, she sent to the chiefs of the Philistines saying, Come up this time, for he hath let out all his heart to me. And the chiefs of the Philistines came unto her, with the money in their hands.
Finally, brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things unto you is not trouble unto me, but is a safeguard for you.
And they went also himself to Ramatha, and came to the great cistern, which is in Soco, and he asked, and said, in what place are Samuel and David? And it was told him, Behold, they are in Najoth in Ramatha.
So the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz, died.
Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept until there was not strength in them to weep.
The children of Benjamin said, "They are smitten down before us, as at the first." But the children of Israel said, "Let us flee; and draw them away from the city to the highways."
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he hath did subject all things unto him, he left nothing not subject unto him. But now we see not as yet all things in subjection to him.
circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews: concerning the law, a Pharisee.
And have thou utterly forgotten the exhortation which instructeth you as sons? "My son, do not make light of the Lord's instruction, or give up when ye are corrected by him.
And he sent, and brought him in, and he ruddy, with beauty of eyes, and of good appearance: and Jehovah said, Rise up, anoint him, for this he.'
And Israel was in great need because of Midian: and the cry of the children of Israel went up unto Jehovah.
And they speak unto him, saying, No; but we surely bind thee, and have given thee into their hand, and we will certainly perform not put thee to death;' and they bind him with two wreathen new ones, and bring him up from the rock.
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will uncover ourselves unto them.
and Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines,' and he bowed himself powerfully, and the house falleth on the princes, and upon all the people that were therein, and the dead whom he hath put to death in his death are more than they whom he put to death in his life.
So that there be yet a Sabbath-keeping for the people of God.
Now Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Wherefore is he put to death? what hath he done?'
And he sent and brought him in. And he was ruddy, and besides of a loving countenance and beautiful vision. And Jehovah said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
And the children of Ammon shouting together, encamped in Gilead, against whom the children of Israel assembled themselves together and encamped in Mizpah.
And it shall be, that every one that is left in thy house shall come in to do him for a recompense of silver, and a cake of bread, and hath said, Admit me, I pray thee, unto one of the priest's offices, to eat a morsel of bread.'
The latter do so from love, knowing that I am appointed for the defence of the gospel.
And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, in all the riches which God shall give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war; and he was acceptable in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
After all that generation were gathered unto their fathers, another generation arose after them, who didn't know Jehovah, nor the work which he had done for Israel.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God which he commanded thee; for now would Jehovah will establish thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
Then Abimelech and the courses that were with him dashed out and stood at the door of the city gate, and the two companies dashed out against all that were in the field, and they killed them.
For he was looking for the strong city, whose build and maker is God.
And David said to Abiathar, I knew that day, when endureth chiefs was there, that he would take the tidings to Saul: I am the charge of the lives of all your father's house.
and they called the name of that place Bochim, and sacrifice there unto Jehovah.
And Jephthah sware unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt give the children of Ammon into my hands,
Then cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have done evil, because we have turned aside from Jehovah, worshipping the Baalim and the Astartes: but now, make us on high from them that are against us, and we will serve thee.
They answered them and said, "There is. Behold, he is just in front of you! Make haste now, because he hath come to the city this day, because there is a sacrifice for the people this day at the high place.
But only a great fear of being judged, and of the fire of wrath which shall be the destruction of the enemies of God.
And he said, I have sinned: yet honor me therefore, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord thy God.
And the lookouts of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw that the multitude surged to and fro.
And it came to pass, that, when he went away from Samuel, God gave him a changed heart: and all they signs were done that day.
And Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah gave thee into hand this day, and I would not stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
and Jehovah had uncovered the ear of Samuel one day before the coming of Saul, saying,
Therefore, leaving behind the elementary tidings of Christ, let us creepeth on to maturity, not lay it again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God,
not, I pray thee, let my lord set his heart against this worthless person, Nabal; for as his name, so is he. Nabal is his name, and stupidity is with him! But I, thy maid-servant, saw not the young men of my lord whom ye sent.
And he said, "Go." He sent her away for two months, and she went with her friends, and she lamented for her virginity upon the mountains.
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and departed, and went over against the Jebusite (the same is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with him.
and if so be that they had been mindful of that in which they came forth, they might have had opportunity to return,
Finally, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things unto you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.
And it came to pass, when Israel waxed strong, that they put the Canaanites to taskwork, but they never whit, drove them out.
And by faith Abraham, when he was tried; offered up Isaac: and he that received the promises offered up his only begotten son,
Tell him, 'Long life unto thee: Peace be to you and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast:
And the men of Ephraim came and said unto him, Why did ye not send for us when thou wentest to battle against Midian? And they said sharp and angry words to him.
Then said Saul unto Jehovah: O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give a sign, wherein we may know what the meaning is, that thou wilt answer not thy servant to day: if this iniquity be in me, or in my son Jonathan, give a proof: or if this iniquity be in thy people, give holiness. Now Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
as to circumcision, [I received it] the eighth day; of race of Israel, of tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews: as to law, a Pharisee.
Then Michal took the image and put it in the bed, with a cushion of goat's hair in its head, and she put raiment over it.
Wherefore I was wroth with this generation, and said, They always err in heart: and they have not known my ways:
So then Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath driven out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and thou wouldest inherit it?
He will keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall die in the dark night, for by strength no man will conquer.
And in the morning, when the sun is up, get you up early and leap upon the city; and when he and his people come out against you, do unto them whatsoever thou canst do.
And they called the name of that place Bochim, and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
And after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is: and when thou shalt be come thither into the city, thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place, with a psaltery and a timbrel, and a pipe and a harp unto them, and they shall be soothsaying.
David fastened his sword upon his raiment, and he assayed to remove; for he had not tempted it. David said unto Saul, "I can't go with these; for I have not tempted them." Then David took them off.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.
And she said unto her young men, Pass over before me; behold, after thee I am coming;' and to her husband Nabal she hath not declared it;
So David smote the Philistine, with a sling and a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; and there was no sword in the hand of David.
Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.
"When Jacob came into Egypt, your fathers cried unto Jehovah, so he sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your fathers out from Egypt and put them in this place.
And they said, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and cast therein every man the ear-rings of his spoil.
And the Beth-Shemeshites are reaping their wheat-harvest in the valley, and they lifted up their eyes, and see the ark, and rejoice to see it.
Now the house was full of men and women. and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that saw while Samson performed.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praise to Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And when he came to folds of the flock, by the way, and there a cave, and Saul goeth in to cover his feet; and David and his men in the uttermost parts of the cave are abiding.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of city as the cattle, and all that was found; even all the cities that were found did they set on fire.
then Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, 'Please let me pass through thy land;' but the king of Edom didn't hearken: In like manner he sent unto the king of Moab; but he would not: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
So they set them up the graven graven image that Micah had made, all the days that the house of God was in Shiloh.
thou numberest that God able to raise even from the dead, whence also he received him in a figure.
And the priest accepted the offer, and he took the ephod, teraphim, and molten image and went along with the people.
and said, This is the custom of the king that shall reign over you: Thy sons he shall take, and hath appointed for himself among his chariots, and among his horsemen, and they have run before his chariots;
And Abishai said unto David, God hath shut up thine enemy this day into thy hands: now then I will run him through with my spear even to the earth at once, and there shall be no need of a second time.
Who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And it shall come to pass, that the Philistine, will rise up, and went and draweth near to meet David, and David hasteth and ran to the estate to meet the Philistine,
And they pass over thence the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts where they had hid themselves.
And they shall salute thee, and will give thee two loaves, and thou shalt take them at their hand.
But Saul gave Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Paltite, the son of Lais, who was of Gallium.
and it shall be, when these signs come thee for do for thyself as thy hand findeth, for God with thee.
The children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite and kill of the people, as at the other times, in the highways, whereof one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, "Please let us pass through thy land," but the king of Edom would not hear. And they also sent messengers to the king of Moab, but he was not their own accord, So Israel abode in Kadesh.
Jehovah hath done unto thee, as he spake by my hand: Jehovah hath torn the kingdom from thy hand and hath given it unto thy neighbor, to David.
Now Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, tarry not. And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
"'This shall be the sign unto you, that shall come upon thy two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas. in one day they shall both die.
And when Jacob and his sons were come into Egypt, and were crushed by the Egyptians, the prayers of your fathers came up unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who took your fathers out of Egypt, and he put them into this place.
and unto the messengers, indeed, he said, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire;'
There abideth therefore a sabbath rest for the people of God.
And the men of Israel see that Abimelech dead, and go every man to his place;
who unto an ensample and shadow shall serve of the heavenly things, as Moses had been Christians warned, was about to maketh the tabernacle, for See, saith He) thou mayest make all things according to the fashion thereof which hath been showed thee in the mount;') even
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered together their hosts to be prepared for war against Israel: and Achis said unto David, Know now assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me to the war, thou, and thy men.
And Achish said, Where have ye thrust to-day?' and David said, `Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelite, and unto the south of the Kenite.'
And they went forth into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and made merry, and went into the house of their gods, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech;
Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, even as many of Israel as had not known all the Wars of Canaan;
Wheresoever they went forth, Yahweh's hand was against them for evil, as Jehovah had spoken, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them: and they were exceeding sorry.
For indeed we have had gospel presented unto us, even as they also; but the word of the report did not profit *them*, not being mingled with faith in them that heard.
And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men: all these, men of valor.
And he smote them with a very great slaughter, from Aroer, even unto Minnith, twenty towns thereof, unto Abel Keramim. And the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they were also both of them his wives.
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
And Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep and oxen, and beasts of the second off bearing, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not destroy them: foolishness; but everything that was mean and weak, that they destroyed utterly.
So having patiently endured: he obtained promise.
For for me to live Christ, and to die gain
And yet ye have forsaken me, and have worshipped strange gods: therefore will I deliver you no more:
Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, "Samuel! Samuel!" Then Samuel said, "Speak; for thy servant hears."
For the land which hath drunk the rain that cometh often thereon, and bringeth forth a crop meet for them for whose sake it is also tilled, receiveth blessing from God;
And when every one had seen this, they all cried out, And there was never such a thing done in Israel from the day that our fathers came up out of Egypt, even unto this day, give interdict, and decree in common what ought to be done.
And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me to lie in wait, as at this day?
The priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, the teraphim, and the graven image, and went with the people.
And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause?
And David said unto Achish, "Therefore ye shall know what thy servant can do." Achish said unto David, "Therefore I will make thee my Carites forever."
And David rose early in the morning, and leaveth the flock to a shepherd, and lifted up, and indeed goeth, as Jesse commanded him, and he came to the path, and to the army that goeth out unto the degree, and they have shouted for battle;
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye return unto Jehovah with all thy heart, put away the foreign gods and the Ashtoreths from the midst of thee, And apply thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and the Lord anointed thee king over Israel?
Then let us all, that are come to fullgrown, be of this mind: and if in anything ye are of a different mind, even this will God make known unto you:
David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and took and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the place of the wagons, as the army which was going forth to war shouted for the battle.
For it was comely for him for whom are all things, and through whom are all things in bringing many sons to glory to perfect the Prince of their salvation through sorrows;
So the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson; and he became a man and the blessing of Jehovah was upon him.
He came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, "I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore get her for me as my wife."
And when David learned that Saul was plottings evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here."
For every one that greeting partaketh of milk is unacquainted with the word of righteousness, because he is a infant.
And Abigail hasteth and rose up, and rideth upon the ass, and five of her maidens who were going at her feet; and she went after the messengers of David, and is unto him to wife.
And the Gileadites took the crossing-places of the Jordan against the Ephraimites; and when any of the men of Ephraim that fled said, let me go over; the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? And if he said, Nay;
and in this again, If they shall enter into my rest; ;'
And they came to their brethren at Zorah, and Eshtaol; and their brethren asked them, "What do ye say?"
For he was looking for the city that hath foundations, whose architect and build is God.
And Gaal the son of Obed cried: Who is Abimelech, and what is Shechem, that we should serve him? Is he not the son of Jerobaal, and hath made Zebul his servant ruler over the men of Emor the father of Sichem? Why then shall we serve him?
and as a robe Thou shall roll them together, and they shall be changed, and Thou art the same, And thy years shall not fail.'
And by faith he came forth out of Egypt, not afraid of the fierceness of the king; for he endured as seeing him that is invisible.
But if ye do wickedly, ye shall perish, both ye and your king.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are true men, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure: whatsoever things are fair; and whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any fornication, and if there be any praise, think upon these things.
Therefore they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards;
But Christ having come as a high priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this creation
And David went on, he and six hundred men that were with him, and they came unto the valley of Besor, and they that remained stood still,
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of thy affliction.
And Saul saith unto Ahiah, Bring the ark of God;' for the ark of God hath been on that day with the children of Israel.
And Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them, God's Spirit came upon Saul's messengers, and they also prophesied.
And Saul and his men went to seek him. And David heard of it, so he came down to the rock in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul, hearing of this, went after David into the wilderness of Maon.
They were left of jealousy, when Israel, to know whether they would keep the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
Therefore on that day he called his name Jerub-Baal, saying, "Let Baal contend against him, because he hath broken down his altar."
He raiseth from the dust the poor, out of the dust, And lifteth up the needy, To cause to sit with nobles, Yea, a throne of glory he cause them to inherit, For unto Jehovah the fixtures of earth, But he will upon them the world.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
One day Jonathan the son of Saul said unto his armorbearer, "Come and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines which is over there." But he did not tell his father.
and she said, I will surely go with thee; only, surely thy glory is not on the way which thou goest, for into the hand of a woman Jehovah will sell Sisera;' and Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Behooved it this day, that I began to inquire of God for him? be it far from me: Let not the king charge aught unto his servant, to all the house of my father; for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
The God's Spirit came mightily on Saul when he heard these words, and his anger was kindled hot.
For this cause it must needs be made like his brethren in every way, so that he might be a high priest full of mercy and keeping faith in everything to do with God, sacrificed for the sins of the people.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim, in Judah; therefore they call that place Mahaneh-Dan unto this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
Salute all your leaders and all the saints. They from Italy, salute you.
And he presented the gifts to Eglon; king of Moab. Now Eglon, was exceeding fat.
The Philistine, came near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And if the man said unto him, First let the fat be burned, then take as much as thou will; then the servant would said, No, thou art to give it unto me now; or I will take it by force.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb as Moses had said, and he drove the three sons of Anak out of there.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, with and the weight of the coat was five thousand pieces of brass.
One day the trees went out to make a king for themselves; and they said unto the olive-tree, Be king over us.
and Gideon maketh it into an ephod, and set it up in his city, in Ophrah, and all Israel played the harlot after it there, and it is to Gideon and to his house for the toils.
while God was testifying at the same time by signs and wonders and divers signs and their of the Holy Spirit according to his will.
Then Gideon, hearing the commentary of the dream and the interpretation wherein they took it, gave worship; then he came to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath given the army of Midian into your hand.
But if I live in the flesh, this will bring fruit from my work; yet I don't know what I will choose.
For if the blood of bullocks, and goats, and ashes of an heifer, sprinkling those defiled, shall sanctify to the purifying of the flesh,
And when the child was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, "Isn't the arrow beyond you?"
Make ye full of every good work and ready to do all his lusts, working in us whatsoever is right in his eyes through Jesus Christ; and may the glory be given to him for ever and ever. Amen.
and the Philistines set themselves in array against Israel: and the battle spreadeth itself, and Israel is put to the worse before the Philistines, and they smote among the flocks in the field about four thousand men.
And the children of Benjamin did, as they had been commanded: and according to their number, they carried away for themselves every man his wife of them that were dancing: and they went into their possession and built up their cities, and dwelt in them.
And he died, and was buried in Pharathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of Amalech.
And Saul saith, There is no man put to death on this day, for to-day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.'
and Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the Lord's priest in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
Thus Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over by Beth-aven.
And Samson said unto them, I will now put forth a dark saying unto you: if ye can indeed declare it me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty sheets and thirty change of garments:
Gideon made an ephod out of it, and put it in Ophrah, his city. Then all Israel played the harlot with it there; and it became a snare to Gideon, and to his house.
And they said unto Samuel: cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he may save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Then said they unto him, Say now Shibboleth: and he said Sibboleth: for he could not frame to pronounce it right. Then they took him, and slew him at the passages of the Jordan; and there fell at that time of the midst of Ephraim forty and two thousand.
Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they gone?
And to them that were in Rachal, and to them that were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them that were in the cities of the Kenite,
and encamped against them, and destroy the increase of the land till thou be come Gaza; and they leave no sustenance in Israel, either sheep, or ox, or ass,
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and unleavened wafers, or lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
And David gave Saul his oath. And Saul returned unto his house; but David and his men went up to their fortress.
After Abimelech there arose a ruler in Israel, Tola, son of Puvah, the uncle of Abimelech, a man of Issachar, who dwelt in Shamir, of the hill-country of Ephraim;
And Jehovah gave them judges as their saviours from the hands of them that afflicted them.
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon nor any that come into Dagon's house tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou wilt take a wife of the Philistines, that are in uncircumcision? And Samson said to his father, Take this woman for me, for she hath pleased mine eyes.
They with the family of Micah, and they have discerned the voice of the young man, the Levite, and turn aside there, and say unto him, Who hath brought thee hither? and what art thou doing in this [place?] and what to thee here?'
And ye shall cry out in that day because of thy king whom ye have chosen; and Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
Then Micaiah said, "Now know I that Jehovah will do good to me, since I have a Levite as my priest."
David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring them to Gath, saying, "Lest they should tell about us, saying, 'David did this, and this hath been his way all the time he hath dwelt in the country of the Philistines.'"
And thou hast not remembered the word which saith unto you as unto sons, My son, do not set at nought the Lord's visitation, and do not give up hope when I shall judge him;
But the children of Israel returning, put all the remnant of the city to the sword, both men and beasts, and all the cities and the villages of Benjamin were consumed with devouring of flame.
Now Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it unto David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
Having confidence of this very purpose, that he who begin in you a good work, will perform until the day of Jesus Christ,
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber, Kain be, Blessed above women in the tent!
And he said unto the men of Succoth, "Please give loaves of bread to the people that follow me; for they are weary, and I am pursuing Zebah and Zalmunna; the kings of Midian."
And they said, We will not put thee but we will deliver thee up bound. And they bound him in two new cords, and brought him from the rock Etam.
we may come near, then, with boldness. to the throne of the grace, that we may receive kindness, and find favor for seasonable help.
And these came into Micah's house, and took the graven image of the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest said unto them, What do ye?
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would as at this time have told us such things as these.
this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. The two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests unto Jehovah, were there.
The Lord render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to day, but I would not stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed.
them still in my every supplication, making the supplication for you all with joy,
And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
Pardon, I pray thee, the transgression of thy maid-servant, because Jehovah will surely make a perpetual house for my lord, because my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil shall not be found in you as long as thou live.
If therefore we have a kingdom which shall never be removed; let us have grace, so that we may give God such worship as pleaseth him with fear and respect.
For this Melchisedec, King of Salem priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
So Manoah arose, and followed his wife, and he came to the man and said unto him, "Are you the man that spake unto the woman?" And he said, "I am."
And it was so, that, after they had carried it about, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a very great destruction, And he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret parts.
And Jehovah, and turn unto him, said, Go in the strength thou hast and be Israel's saviour from Midian: have I not sent you?
And after him was Shamgar the son of Beth-anath, that smote six hundred men of the Philistines with an ox goad. He also saved Israel.
An evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David was sporting with his hand.
And having become by so much better than God, as the name which is his inheritance is more noble than theirs.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bough, and they followed Abimelech, and put to the stronghold, and burned the hold with fire upon them. And all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people go out to the field, and they declare unto Abimelech;
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal unto the place of weepers, and said, I made you go out of Egypt, and will bring you into the land which I sware unto your fathers: and I promised that I would not break my covenant with you for ever:
who by faith smote kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped lions' mouths,
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Up, and slay them. But the lad drew not his sword; for he was afraid, because he was yet a youth.
And this shall be the sign unto you, which shall come upon Hophni and Phinehas, thy sons; they shall fall in one day.
by which shall we are made holy through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;
How Jacob went into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of Egypt: and made them dwell in this place.
And the sin of these young men was very great before Jehovah; for they favored not the Lord's offerings.
Now on the morrow, an evil spirit from God came upon Saul with great force and he was and playedst the prophet among the men of his house, while David was making music for him, as he did day required: and Saul had his spear in his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, give, I pray you, loaves of bread unto the people that follow me; for they be feeble, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna; kings of Midian.
Then the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made Eglon, king of Moab, strong against Israel, because they had done evil in the Lord's eyes.
And Judah went with Simeon, his brother, and prevailed against the Canaanites that dwell in Zephath, and put it under the curse; and he gave the city the name of Hormah.
Then the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and pursued after the Philistines and they smote them, as far as below and Car.
Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, "As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death."
He keepeth the feet of his saints, but the wicked are stilled in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.
how shall we escape if we have been ready always of so great salvation, which, when they had the beginning in being spoken by Jehovah, was confirmed unto us, who have heard.
Now Saul tarried at the suburbs of Gibeah under the pomegranate, tree that was in Migron; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
And Abimelech went after him, and he fled before him; and a great number fell by the sword all the ascent of the city.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me: for he shall surely die.
He is able to have toward them that have no knowledge and for them that err from the true way, because he himself languisheth;
They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the places of drew water, there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of Jehovah, even the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of the Lord go down to the gates.
He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons that went on seventy young asses; he was judge of Israel eight years.
But he answered them, Michas hath done such and such things for me, and hath hired me to be his priest.
for he will testify Thou a priest for ever, according to the ordinance of Melchisedek;'
And he said, why doth my lord go with the sword against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in me?
Now Jehovah had revealed to Samuel a day before Saul came, saying,
In those days was there no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes;
And he brought him into his house, and gave provender to his asses, and after they had washed their feet, he entertained them with a feast.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and pour it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, "Hasn't Jehovah anointed thee that thou shouldest be prince over his heritage?
And the word was displeased with of Samuel, that they should say, Give us a king, to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
But Christ as the Son in his own house: which house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and glory of hope unto the end.
For it is impossible to restore again to repentance those once enlightened, and that have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
And Saul's father's brother said unto him, and his servant, Where hast thou pass; and he said, searching for the asses: and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And Jael Heber's wife, took a tent-pin, and took the hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the pin into his palaces; and it penetrated into the ground; for he had fallen into a deep sleep and was faint; and he died.
Now Zebah and Zalmunna; were in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men remained from all the host of the people of the east; those that fell in battle were a hundred and twenty thousand swordsmen.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; for all shall know me, from the least even unto the greatest,
And the bush said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, come, trust in my shadow; but if not, fire shall come out of the bush and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
And Judah went with his brother Simeon, and they smote the Canaanites that dwell in Zephath; they utterly destroyed it, so he called the name of the city Hormah.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Saul arrayed David with his long robe, and hath put a helmet of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a coat of mail.
And they buried him in the earth in the land of his inheritance in Timnath-heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim unto the north of the mountain of Gaash.
But he, because he went out for ever, holdeth the priesthood permanently.
And she said unto her servants, Pass over before me: Behold, I will follow after thee: but she told not her husband Nabal.
Because it is evident that our Lord cometh out of Judah, and Moses said nothing about priests from that tribe:
And Ahimelech answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants for David, who is the king's son-in-law, and hath access to thy secret council, and is glorious in thy house?
And they have taken that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and come against Laish. against a people quiet and of good courage, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and the city have burned with fire,
He said therefore unto them also: When I shall return a Chief Musician, in peace, I will destroy this tower.
And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went to meet the Philistines, therefore they have called that place The Rock of Divisions.'
The only one I will not cut off from my altar is you. but to cause thine eyes to fail and to cause thy soul to grieve, all the members of thy household shall die as men.
And the king said, Dead thou shalt die, Rejoice thou and all thy father's house.
And David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
and he shall go from year to year; and gone round Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel all these places;
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, By them three hundred that were drinking with their tongues I will save you, and give the Midianites into your hands; Let the rest of the people away, every man unto his place.
And the children of Ammon pass over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, and Israel hath great distress.
But Sihon didn't trust Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz; and fought against Israel.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Melchishua, Saul's sons.
For the one at work in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure is God.
And when they saw him, they brought thirty companions to be with him.
And Jehovah cast Sisera, and all his chariots and host into confusion before the edge of Barak's sword; and Sisera, alighted from his chariot and fled on foot:
And the men of Israel came together out of Naphtali and from Asher and all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
See that ye don't refuse him that speaketh. For if they didn't escape when they refused him who warned on the earth, how much more shall we not escape who turn away from him that warns from heaven,
"After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines is; and it shall come to pass, when ye are come there to the city, that ye will meet a band of prophets coming down from the high place with a harp, a tabret a pipe and a harp before them; and they shall be soothsaying.
And it came to pass, when Saul returned from following the Philistines, that they told him, saying, Behold, David in the wilderness of En-gedi.'
For we have found trespass, He saith unto them, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will perfect with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah, a new covenant;
and now he hath obtained a most excellent service, how much also of a better covenant is he mediator, which on better promises hath been sanctioned,
And Saul hasteth and falleth even the fulness of his stature to the earth, and feareth greatly because of the words of Samuel: also power was not in him; for he had not eat bread all the day, and all the night.
And David arose, and went out from the cave, and called after Saul saying, My lord, O king!' And Saul beholdeth behind him, and David bowed his head with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
David knew that Saul was devise mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, "Bring the ephod here."
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Also Judah took Gaza, the border thereof, and Askelon with the border thereof, and Ekron with the border thereof.
When the day came that Elkanah sacrificed. he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters; portions:
And cast it, thinking to nail David to the wall: and David stept aside out of his presence twice.
Jehovah called yet again, "Samuel!" Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here I am, for ye called me." And he answered, "I didn't lie down again." call, my son.
It was therefore necessary that the an ensample of things in the heavens, should be purified with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it up between Mizpah and Jeshanah, and called it Eben-ezer, and saying, Hitherto Jehovah hath been our help.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou set me come up, afflict my rest? And Saul answered and said, I am in great jeopardy. for the Philistines are that fight against me, and God is gone away from me and shall no more give me no answer, by the prophets or by dreams. So I have sent for you to show me what I am to do.
And no man took this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron.
(for the law made nothing perfect), but on the other hand there is the introduction of a better hope through which we draw near unto God.
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel: and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us;
for partakers we have become of the Christ, if the beginning of the confidence unto the end we may hold fast,
Thy handmaid hath overcome lion and bear: and the captivity of this Philistine, that is uncircumcised; shall be as theirs, when he saw that he hath profaned the hosts of the living God.
which is a sign of this present world, where gifts and they offer sacrifices, that are incapable, concerning the conscience, of making the worshipper perfect:
But the vine said unto them, 'Should I stop yielding my wine that maketh the gods and men happy, to go hang over the trees?'
That all of you have conspired against me, and there is none to certify me, especially when even my son hath entered into covenant with the land of Isai? There is none of you that pitieth my cause, nor that giveth me any information: because my son hath raised up my servant against me, plottings against me unto this day.
insomuch that the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan, wasted Judah and Benjamin and Ephraim: and Israel was distressed exceedingly.
honorable the marriage in all, and the bed undefiled, and fornicators and the adulterer God shall judge.
And Saul summoneth the whole of the people to battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay siege unto David and to his men.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Midianites seven years.
Yea, I beseech you also, true partner, help these women; for they labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and the rest of my together with him that are written in the book of life.
and a woman cast the upper millstone upon him on Abimelech's head, and crushed his own pate.
And it came to pass one day when Heli lay in his place, and his eyes were dim; that he could not see:
Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on the one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, do that which is good in thy sight.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub, And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
And put the battle in array against Israel. And when they had joined battle, Israel turned their backs unto the Philistines, and there was slain in that fight here and there in the fields about four thousand men.
And they shall not teach every man his fellow-citizen, and every man his brother, saying, Know Jehovah; because all shall know me in themselves, from little one [among them] unto great among them.
Wherefore also, God did highly exalt him, and gave him a name that above every name,
In those days was there no king in Israel. Every one did that which was right in his own eyes;
And Jehovah called again the third time, Samuel! And he arose, and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah was calling the lad drink.
spake unto by God high priest according to the ordinance of Melchisedec.
David said in his heart, "I will now perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will despair concerning me, to seek me any more in all the borders of Israel. So shall I escape out of his hand."
And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his officer? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem; for why should we serve him?
David sware unto Saul; and Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
Jehovah maketh poor and maketh rich; he bringeth low and also exalts.
for of the living creatures whose blood is brought for sin into the holy places through the chief priest, of these the bodies are burned without the camp.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they served Baal.
And ye have transgressed my father's family this day, and have put to death his sons, even seventy men on one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of whom his concubine king over the inhabitants of Shechem because he is thy brother;)
Then answered one of the people and said, Thy father strictly charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food this day; and the people are faint.
And Jephthah fled from the face of his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob; and vain men gather themselves together unto Jephthah, and they go out with him.
And by faith also of things to come, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau.
For by it our fathers had God's favor.
And Jehovah said unto him, Because I am with thee, when thou hast smitten the Midianites as one man.'
David sent spies secretly, and he learned that Saul had come for sure.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as much delight in sacrifices and burnt-offerings as in the doing him? Behold, to do his pleasure is better than to offer sacrifices, and to give ear to him than the fat of sheep.
But his wife took one of his friends and bridal companions for her husband.
And Samuel slept until morning; and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to tell the vision to Heli.
ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall throw down their altars; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice. Why have ye done this?
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, reign over us.
And Zebul said unto him, Where now thy mouth, in that thou sayest, Who Abimelech that we serve him? is not this the people against which thou hast kicked? go out, I pray thee now, and fight against it.'
And the first slaughter which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was of about twenty men, within half an acre of land, which a yoke of oxen, is wont to plow in a day.
(Therefore the priests of Dagon and all that come into the house of Dagon do not tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, until this very day.)
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
Because for the work of Christ he came to the point of death; delivering his life, that he might perfect that which was lacking on your part toward my service.
And David was greatly troubled; for the people spake of stoneth him, because their hearts were bitter, every man mourneth for his sons and his daughters: but David made himself strong in Jehovah his God.
And Zebee and Salmana said, Do thou arise, and run upon us; for the strength of a man is according to his age: Gedeon rose up and slew Zebee and Salmana: and he took the ornaments and bosses, wherewith the necks of the camels of kings are wont to be garnished.
and the weight of the rings of gold which he asked is a thousand and seven hundred of gold, apart from the round ornaments, and the drops, and the purple garments, which on the kings of Midian, and apart from the chains which upon the necks of their camels,
Then the king said to Doeg, "You turn and smite the priests!" So endureth chiefs turned and smote the priests himself, and on that day he slew fourscore and five men that had worn the linen ephod.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
But if it bringeth forth thorns and thistles, it is worthless and near to a curse, whose end is for burning.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and the evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
Then David took an oath again, and said, "Your father knoweth very well that I have found favor in thy sight, and he said, 'Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he worry.' But as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, surely there is merely a pulpit between me and death!"
And they arose and went to Ziph, before Saul: and David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain at the right hand of Jesimon.
And Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him.
Now the young Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before Eli. In those days Jehovah kept his word secret from men; there was no open vision.
For every house is built by some, one; but he that hath built all things God.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, and he falleth he also upon his sword, and died with him;
I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth. And when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
Gaal son of Ebed went out, and stood at the door of the city gate, and Abimelech and the host that was with him arose from the covert;
So five and twenty thousand of the swordsmen of Benjamin came to their end that day, all mighty men of war.
Villages ceased in Israel, that they ceased, Until I arose even Deborah That I arose, a mother in Israel.
And when he saw the wayfaring man in the street of the city, the old man said, Whither goest thou? and from whence come ye?
The price was one payim every man to whet mattocks, plowshares, pitchforks, axes, and the goad.
For even as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath withheld me from harming you, Except ye had made haste, and come to meet me, surely there wouldn't have left unto Nabal by the morning light so much as one that urinates on a wall."
Therefore Saul took him out of his presence, and made him his equal to a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
Now Jonathan went up, that handle with his hands and his feet, his servant going up after him; and the Philistines gave way before Jonathan when he laid his hand upon them, and his servant put them to death after him.
And set it before Saul, and before his servants. And when they had eaten they rose up, and went all that night.
And the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And the children of Israel go up and wept before Jehovah until the even; and ask of Jehovah, saying, Shall I add to draw nigh to battle with the children of Benjamin, my brother?' And Jehovah said, Go up against him.'
The lords of Gibeah rose up against me and compassed the house in the night. They was minded to kill me, and they humbled my concubine, and she died.
Jesse therefore brought his seven sons before Samuel: and Samuel said unto Jesse: Jehovah hath not chosen any one of these.
And they stood every man in his place, round about the camp; and all the host ran, and cried out, and fled.
Saul was a child of one year when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and couch unto him for a piece of silver, and a morsel of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests' offices, that I may eat a piece of bread.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal Tamar. Then the liers-in-wait of Israel brake out of their place, even out of Maareh Gibeon.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he said, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me:
Rejoice in the Lord at all times, and again I say, Rejoice.
So give me thy swear by Jehovah, that thou wilt not make a full end of my seed after me or let my name be cut off from my father's house.
And when he was come home he took a sword, and divided the dead body of his wife with her bones into twelve parts, and sent the pieces into all the borders of Israel.
And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And they shall ask of thy welfare, and give thee two loaves, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, Let us hinder thee, we pray thee, and prepare before thee a kid of the goats.'
and all Israel know, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, that Samuel is established for a prophet unto Jehovah.
Behold, here is my virgin daughter and his concubine: I will bring them out now. Humble them, and do with them as seemeth good unto you; but unto this man don't do any such folly."
When David's young men came, they spake unto Nabal all those words in the name of David, and stood still.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Eben-ezer to in Ashdod, did
and vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if Thou shalt surely look on the affliction of thy handmaid; and shalt remember me, and shalt not forget thy handmaid, and hast given to thy handmaid seed of men then will I give him to Jehovah all the days of his life; and there shall no razor go up upon his head.'
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go;' and there is none to answer? and he took her on the ass, and the man arose, and went to his place,
Why do ye make thy heart as the heart of Pharaoh and the Egyptians? And when he had mocked them, did they not let the people go, and they went away?
And in nothing terrified by thy adversaries: which is to them an manifest token of perdition; but unto you of salvation, and that of God.
And the Philistine, said, I defy the hosts of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, were in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Machmas.
If therefore perfection were by the Levites, priesthood, (for under it the people received the law), what further need was there that another priest should arise after the order of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
not as the covenant which I made with their fathers in the day I took hold of them by my hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not abide in my covenant and I passed away them, saith Jehovah.
And it came to pass after this, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath commanded him to be equal to his people, because thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be given to the man that shall kill this Philistine, and shall take away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities of Gibeah, to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
Then the children of Israel returned from pursuing after the Philistines, and took the spoil of the tents.
that ye may prove things that are exalted; that ye may be unfeigned and without offence until the day of Christ.
And over it the cherubim of glory forest-like the mercyseat; whereof we cannot now speak particularly.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites, because the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And they said, Nay; we will take you and deliver thee into their hands, howbeit we will not put thee to death. So knotting two new cords round him, they took him up from the rock.
and we are not of them that come back to destruction, but to them that believe, to a saving of soul.
and none to himself shall take the honor, but he that is called by God, as also Aaron:
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they also do unto you.
And he had forty sons and thirty grandchildren, that rode upon threescore and ten ass colts: and he judged Israel eight years.
Having therefore, brethren, a confidence in the entrance of the most by the blood of Christ;
And the Philistine, said, I have put to shame the hosts of Israel this day; give me a man, so that we may have a fight together.
And by faith Abraham, when he was tried; offered Isaac: and he that received the promises; offered up his only begotten son;
And ye shall make images of your hemorrhoids, and images of your mice that destroy the land, and give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off thee, and from off thy gods, and from off thy land.
And Saul said, From Amalek they have brought them, because the people had regard for the best of the flock and of the herd, in order to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God, and the remnant we have devoted.'
Thou hast avouched how thou hast dealt well with me, because when Jehovah had delivered me up into thy hand, thou didn't kill me.
Then Samuel said unto the people, "Yahweh is one, who appointed Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But his father and his mother said unto him, "Is there not a wife of the daughters of thy kindred, or among all our people, that thou shalt take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines?" But Samson said unto his father, "Take her for me because she please me."
Jehovah was with Judah; and drove out the inhabitants of the hill-country; for he could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fought against the Philistines.
And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
Then said Saul unto Ahiah, bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was much distressed by reason of the archers.
And let them that all their lives were in chains because of their fear of death, go free.
And by faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet; moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
Riders upon white asses. Sitters a long robe And meditate! walkers by the Way,
And they went off the way there with the purpose of stopped for the night in the hill: and he went in, and sat down on the street of the city, for no man took them into his house for the night.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
Then said I, And Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish that which followeth.
And he said unto them, "What I have done now to be compared unto you? Are not the gleaning of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
And when Jehovah raised princes for them, Jehovah was with the prince; and he delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of chief, for Jehovah was moved by their groaning because of their persecutors and oppressors.
when they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them, to hurt them, as Jehovah warned, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them. And they were exceeding sorry.
And Saul and the children of Israel being gathered together came unto the valley of Terebinth, and they set the battle in array to fight against the Philistines.
So David took the spear and the pitcher of water from near Saul's head, and they went away. No man saw, no man hath known: and none awaked, for all of them were sleeping for a deep sleep of Jehovah was fallen upon them.
But to tarry in the flesh, is needful for you.
But after Israel was grown strong he made them levy of bondservants and would not destroy them.
And the man departed out of the city from Beth-lehem-judah to sojourn where he could find a place; and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And Abigail returned to Nabal; and he was feasting in his house like a king; and Nabal's heart was full of joy: for he had taken much wine; so she said nothing to him until dawn came.
Brethren, take me as your example, and mark them that walk after the ensample we have given.
And Abimelech pursued after him, and he fled before him, and there fell many slain, even unto the entrance of the gate.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the valley, and put them in the shepherd's bag that he had, into the pocket; and his sling was in his hand. And he drew nigh unto the Philistine.
So the priest said, "The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom ye slew in the valley of Elah is here, wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If thou wouldest take it unto thee, then take it, for there is no other except it here." And David said, "There is none like it; give it unto me."
Wherefore three thousand men of Judah went down to the cave of the rock Etam, and said unto Samson: Knowest thou not that the Philistines rule over us? why hast thou dealt live? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And when they that dwelt in the tower of Shechem had heard this, they went into the temple of their god Berith where they had made a covenant with him, and from thence the place had taken his name, and it was exceeding strong.
I know both how to be humbled; and I know how to exceedingly: everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.
And by faith also Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things that were going to come to pass.
who, remaining in the form of God, consider not being equal with God something to be grasped,
and thou hast forgotten the exhortation which reasons with you as with children, "My son, don't take lightly the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint when ye are reproved by him;
And it came to pass, that, when he turned his back to depart from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all they signs came to pass that day.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads: and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
As for them that once saw the light, he tasted the good things from heaven, and having their part in the Holy Spirit,
For they and all their flocks came with their tents, and as locusts filled all places, thousands of the men, and of camels, desolation whatsoever they hip.
Therefore they inquired of Jehovah further, Will the man yet come hither? And Jehovah answered and said, Behold, he hath hid himself among the baggage;
Abimelech was told that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
What is the result? Only that in every way, whether in pretence or in truth, Christ is cried; and in this I rejoice. But also I will rejoice,
And Jephthah saith unto the elders of Gilead, Have not ye hated me? and ye cast me out from the house of my father, and wherefore have ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?'
And Gedeon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it the Lord's peace, unto this day. And when he was yet in Ephra, which is of the family of the ground was Ezri
The children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and on that day destroyed twenty and two thousand of the Israelitish men down to the ground.
Samson went unto Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he had been greatly troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath heard thy voice, and I put my soul in my hand, and I obey thy words which thou hast spoken unto me;
And after the death of Gideon, the children of Israel again went after the gods of Canaan and dealt treacherously against Jehovah, and made Baal-berith their god.
Now when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead were they heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
And he said, "They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst kept them alive I would not kill you."
So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain unto him by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
God off bearing, besides, witness with to it, both by signs and wonders, and divers mighty acts, and their of the Holy Spirit, according to his will?
and thus, having had long, and he entered promise.
`Bear, I pray thee, with the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make unto my lord a sure house; for the battles of Jehovah hath my lord warred, and evil is not found in thee thy days.
And Samson took hold of the two midst pillars on which the house stood, and whereon it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
But he that did not be quick his descent from them gathered tithes from Abraham and blessed the one that had the gifts falsely.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Bethlehemjudah, and was there four whole months.
Moreover he sprinkled the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry in like manner with the blood.
The stars from heaven were contention; from their highways they were fighting against Sisera.
And her adversary provoked her much also, to make her thyself, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath taken up my cause against Nabal for the shame which he put on me, and hath kept back his servant from evil, and hath sent on Nabal's head according to his evil-doing. And David sent to Abigal desiring to take her to be his wife.
For unto us also it hath been declared, in like manner as unto them. But the word of hearing did not profit them, not being mingled with faith of those things they heard.
For then he would have borne a number of deaths from the time of the making of the world: but now he is fallen to us at the end of the old order, to put away sin by the oblation of himself.
But when the judge was dead, they turned back, and dealt more corrupt than their fathers after other gods to serve them, and to worship them: They didn't cease what they were doing, or give up their stubborn ways.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and he fought round about against his enemies, against Moab, against the children of Ammon, against Edom; against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. He executed judgment against all that rebelled.
And by faith Jacob dying blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped on the top of his staff.
And Shamgar son of Anath came after him, and he slew six hundred Philistines with the is come, it is of an ox, he also delivered Israel.
That thy rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus for me, by my coming to you again.
And he had the tower of Penuel broken down and the men of the city put to death.
Ye have not yet withstood unto blood, strove against sin.
The Lord be it from me to stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed: but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his bolster, and the cruse of water, and let us go.
Know ye that our brother Timothy hath been loosed, with whom, if he cometh shortly, I will see thee.
Say now in the ears of all the inhabitants of Shechem, Is it good for thee to be in subjection to all the seventy sons of Jerubbaal or by one man only? And thou shalt remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the priest, answering David, said, I have no common bread here but there is showbread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field; but Manoah her husband was not with her.
Then the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, burning down the city after they had put the people to the sword without mercy.
But a certain woman cast an upper millstone upon Abimelech's head and rent open his own pate.
Wherefore consider, and think what thou hast to do: for evil is determined against thy husband, and against thy house, and he is a son of fellow, so that no man can speak unto him.
At that time they put about ten thousand men of Moab to the sword, every strong man and every man of war: not a man escaped.
And David said to Ahimelech, Hast thou no sword or spear with you here? for I am come without my sword and other arms, because the king's business had to be done quickly.
And he said unto her, "Stand at the door of the tent, and if he that cometh and asketh thee, and saith, 'Is there any man here?' Ye shall answer, 'No.'"
And Jehovah came and stood; and he called, as he had called the other times: Samuel, Samuel. And Samuel said, Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth.
David had also taken Ahinoam from Jezreel, and both of them became his wives.
And David's men said unto him, Now is the time when Jehovah say unto thee, I will give up the enemy into your hands to do with him whatsoever pleaseth thee. Then David, standing up took the skirt of Saul's robe in his hand, and I will cut off the end of it without his knowledge.
There went therefore of the family of Dan, to wit, from Zorah, and Eshtaol, six hundred men, filled with arms for war,
And the Gileadites took the passages of the Jordan before the children of Ephraim, and it was so, that, when those midst of Ephraim which were escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? If he said, Nay;
The men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, "What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?" And he said unto them, "If ye hadn't plowed with my heifer, ye wouldn't have found out my riddle."
by which shall we have been sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
When Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and the towns thereof, and in Aroer and the villages thereof, and in all the cities that are along the Arnon, for three hundred years, why didst thou not recover them at that time?
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is thy way upon which ye go.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for possess it; and he is not able to make the people of the valley go out, for they had chariots of iron.
Ephraim didn't drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Now there were among the men of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins that had not known man by lying with a man; these they took away unto their tents, in Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And I have not sinned against thee, and thou doest to me; but to fight against me. Jehovah, the judge, shall judge to-day between the children of Israel and the sons of Ammon.'
And when the lad came to the place where the arrow was, Jonathan, crying out after the lad, said, Hast thou not gone past you?
And the Lord himself hath done that which I said, Jehovah hath taken the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor David;
And when they came to Gibeah, a band of prophets came to meet him; and the Spirit of God came upon him with power and he took his place among them as a prophet.
and why hast thou not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and shalt fly unto the spoil, and shalt do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah?'
and ye this day have rejected your God, who himself thy salvation out of all your evils and your distresses, and ye say, Nay; but a king thou shalt set over us: and now present yourselves before Jehovah, by your tribes, and by thy thousands.'
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Let us seven days, and we will send messengers into all the regions of Israel; and if there be no man to deliver us, we will come out to thee.
And the sons of Saul, were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Melchisua: and the name of his two daughters, the name of the first-born was Merob, and the name of the younger Michol.
As he mentioned the ark of God, he fell from his seat backward against the side of the gate. And he brake his neck, and died, because the man was old and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
And when he had taken him down, they saw them all, sitting about upon all sides, feasting and drinking among all the heap of goods, which they had taken from the land of the Philistines and the land of Judah.
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the dark saying unto the children of her people.
For in one offering he hath perfected in perpetuity them that are sanctified.
And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. Therefore Saul said, God hath cast him off into my hand; for he is shut in, by entered into a city that hath gates and bars thereof.
The Lord's do so to Jonathan, if it is my father's pleasure to do you evil and I will not give you word of it and send you away that thou mayest go in peace: and Jehovah be with you, as he hath been with my father.
But surely I count also all things to be loss by reason of the exceeding greatness of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom I have suffered the loss of all, and number them to be uncleanness, that I might gain Christ;
The kine took the straight way by the way to and the goings out of They went along the highway, lowing as they went, and didn't turn aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of and the goings out of
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines reigned over Israel.
and changed his behavior before them and feigned himself mad in their sight. And he made scratches on the doors of the gate and let his saliva run down into his beard.
And that were in Rachal, and that were in the cities of Jerahmeel, and that were in the cities of Ceni,
And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine, in his hand.
For our God is a devouring fire.
Then Jonathan said, Now we will go over to these men and showed them us.
Kings came they fought; Then fought kings of Canaan, In Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo. Gain of money they took not!
Why do ye sit among the sheepfolds to hear the calling voices of the before thee? For the families of Reuben, there were great searchings of the heart.
neither yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with blood of others;
And Saul said, I have sinned: return, my son David; for I will no more do thee hurt, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done foolishly; And have erred exceedingly.
And when the men of Israel that were on this side of the valley, and that were on this side of the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli lay in his place (now his eyes began to be dim, he could not see),
Then said Saul unto Samuel, Great is my sin: for I have rebelled against the commandment of Jehovah and against your words: because, fearing the people, I did what they said.
But the angel of Jehovah said unto him, "Why askest thou my name? It is too wonderful."
For both he that sanctifieth and they that are sanctified are all from one, For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
And Saul builded an altar unto Jehovah, and he then first began to build an altar unto Jehovah.
And Hannah hath not gone up, for she said unto her husband, How the lad is weaned then I have brought him in, and he hath appeared before the face of Jehovah, and dwelt there, even unto the age.'
Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
And when his armorbearer said unto him, Shall all that is in thy heart; turn for thee; behold, I am with thee, as thine own heart.'
But David was loved of all Israel and Judah, for he went out, and came in before them.
Take heed to nothing; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known unto God.
And I will make a true priest for myself, one who shall do that which is in my heart and in my mind: and I will make him a family which will not come to cease; and his place shall be before my holy one for ever.
And I beseech you, brethren, that ye suffer this word of consolation. For I have written unto you in a few words.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came unto me, and his face was as the face of the angel of God, very dreadful; and I didn't ask him where he was; neither did he tell me his name;
Deal kindly then with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into the covenant of Jehovah with thee; but if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
All the saints salute thee, especially those that are of Caesar's household.
And by faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned.
Follow after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man shall see the Lord,
and Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
And God subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
Kish begat Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
and would thrust it into the pan, or into the kettle or into the frying-pan, or into the bake pot. All that the food parting brought up the priest would take for himself. This is what they used to do unto all the children of Israel that came there at Shiloh.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth, but his body they hanged on the wall of Bethsan.
and all the people say unto Samuel, Pray that for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, and we will not die, for we have added unto all our sins evil to ask for us a king.'
And from thence David went to Mizpeh in the land of Moab, and he said to the king of Moab, Let my father and mother come and make their abode with you till it is known unto me what God will do for me.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Thou shalt not abide in the stronghold; go, and thou hast entered for thee the land of Judah;' And David went and went into the forest of Hareth.
make thou hast accomplished in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the mutilation.
So David recovered all that the Amalekite had taken; David also delivered his two wives.
And there was at that time Debbora a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, that judged the people,
From the cities the children of Benjamin were counted on that day twenty and six thousand sword-wielding men, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, that were numbered of them, seven hundred well-trained men.
and, Thou, at the beginning, Jehovah, the earth didst found, and a work of thy hands are the heavens;
And Samuel died; and all Israel were gathered together, and lamented him; and they buried him in his house at Ramah: And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
But remember the former days, in which after you were radiant; ye endured a great wrestling with sorrows,
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them. Jephthah spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but not all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
Now I have heard that thou hast shearers. Thy shepherds have now been with us, and we didn't hurt them, neither was there anything there lacked from them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And it came to pass, when he had done to offer the meal-offering, that he sent away the people bearing the meal-offering,
and the hand of Midian is strong against Israel, from the presence of Midian did the children of Israel made them the flowing streams which in the mountains, and the caves and the strongholds.
And Gideon said unto God, "Do not let thine anger burn against me; I speak once more. Let me prove once more with the sheep; let the fleece be dry, and let there be dew upon the ground."
So they set them up Micah's graven image which he made, and it remained all the time that God's house was in Shiloh.
In many parts, and many ways, God of old when they had spoken unto the fathers in the prophets,
And the people were counted, and no one was there from the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, "Therefore we have turned again to you now, that ye may go with us, and fight with the children of Ammon. and ye shall be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
If there be therefore any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any sect of the spirit, if any bowels of commiseration:
And he said, Go ye. So he sent her away, for two months: and she went with her friends to the mountains, weeping for her sad latter end.
Let us therefore draw near with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and may find favor for help in famine.
and all Israel go down to the Philistines, to whet every man his ploughshare, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock;
Others tried by mocking and scourging, yea, moreover by bonds and imprisonment.
And the men of Israel were gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued Midian.
Then said Saul unto Jonathan, "Tell me what thou hast done!" Jonathan told him, and said, "I surely did taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand; and behold, I must die."
But strong food belongeth to them that are without spot, even them that by reason of use have their minds exercised to discern both good and evil.
And when the people returned unto their tents, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah let the Philistines overcome us to-day? Let us get the ark of the Lord's covenant here from Shiloh, that it may be with us and give us out of the hand of them that are against us.
And it came to pass, when Gideon dead, that the children of Israel turn back and played the harlot after the Baalim, and set over them Baal-Berith for a god;
called of God a high priest after the order of Melchisedec.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon, the king of Moab against Israel, because they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
and he stripped off he also his garments, and prophesieth he also before Samuel, and falleth down naked all that day, and all the night: therefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?'
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath enjoined unto you.
And the boil took up the shoulder, and what was upon it, and set before Saul. And he said, Behold, that which hath been reserved! set it before thee, eat; for against the set time hath it been kept for thee, since I said, I will bid the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
Now therefore be by all the desire of thy soul, O king, to come down, come down, and ours to shut him up into the hand of the king.'
And he said unto them, What have I done now to be compared unto you? Are not the gleaning of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abi-ezer?
Saul reigned one year old: and when he had reigned two years over Israel,
Yea, before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed. "Give food to roast for the priest; for he will not accept boiled food from you, but raw."
And the servants of Achish said unto him, "Isn't this David the king of the land? Didn't they sing to each other of him in dances, saying, 'Saul hath slain his thousands, David his ten thousands?'"
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash the man of Israel: God hath given into his hand Midian and all the host.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow, by that time the sun be hot, ye shall have help. And the messengers came and showed it to the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
and over the Ashurites, dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they drove not out them.
Now consider how great this was, to whom the patriarch Abraham gave a tenth out of the spoil.
And for the third time Jehovah said Samuel's name. And he arose, and went to Eli and said, Here am I; for thou surely said my name. Then I knew Eli that the voice which had said the child's name was the Lord's.
And by faith Abraham, being called, did obey; to go forth unto the place which he was about to receive for an inheritance, and he went forth, not knowing whither he free will
And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armorbearer and said, Come up unto us, and we will show thee a thing; And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And the children of Israel turn aside the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and serve Jehovah alone;
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And Manoah rose up and went after his wife, and came unto the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spake unto the woman?' And he answered, I .'
And the king sat on his throne, as at the other times, upon the throne by the wall; and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.
So Delilah took new thick cords, knotting them straitly round him, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And men were waiting secretly in the inner chamber. And the cords were broken off his arms like threads.
Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek: after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.
And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare thereof, and take their pledge.
And for. the son of Joash returned to his house, and dwelt there.
but when they came up out of Egypt, and Israel went into the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And no creature is hid in the sight of him, but not all things are naked and laid bare to the eyes of him to whom we must give our account;
forty years. Therefore I was wroth with this generation, and I said, 'They always go astray in their heart, and they know not my ways.'
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that are lapping I save you, and have given Midian into thy hand, and all the people departed every man to his place.'
And he said unto her, What form is he of yourselves? And she said, An old man came up, and he is covered with a robe. And Saul understood that it was Samuel, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
The Philistine, said unto David, "Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field."
Then Samuel said unto all the people, "Do ye see him whom Jehovah hath chosen? for there is none like him among all the people!" And all the people shouted and said, "Long live the king!"
And the five lords of the Philistines, when they saw it, returned to Ekron the same day.
And she said, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" He awaked out of his sleep, and said, "I shall go forth as at the other times, and shake myself free." But he didn't know that Jehovah had departed from him.
Then shalt thou go down before me to Gilgal. behold, I am coming down unto you to offer burnt-offerings and to make peace-offerings. Thou must wait seven days until I come unto you. Then I will let you know what ye shall do."
And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same ordinance; and the people answered him again after the former manner.
For we are the circumcision, they that worship by the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus and do not trust in the flesh,
thus shall Jehovah do to Jonathan, and more also, add; when the evil concerning thee is good to my father, then I have uncovered thine ear, and sent thee away, and that thou mayest go in peace, and Jehovah is with thee, as he was with my father;
saying, This is the blood of the covenant, which God enjoined unto you,'
And the Levite said he would dwell with the man, and he became to him as one of his sons.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow, and there hath not escaped of them a man, save four hundred young men that hast ridden upon the camels, and are fled.
But the men were not hearken unto him, and the man laid hold on his concubine and brought her out unto them; and they have lain with her, and they abuse her all night until the morning; they let her go at the approach of morning.
And as he talked with them, that baseborn man whose name was Goliath, the Philistine, of Gath, showed himself coming up from the camp of the Philistines; and he spake according to the same words, and David heard them.
another company turned the way to and Horon; and another company turned the way of the border that looketh down upon the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And when their fathers and their brethren shall come, and shall begin to complain against you, and to chide; we will say unto them, Have pity upon them for they took them not away as by the right of war or conquest, but when they asked to have them, thou gavest them not, and the fault was committed upon thy portion.
But I hope in Lord Jesus to send Timothy, unto you shortly, that I also may be Yea, knowing how ye get on.
The men of Shechem laid wait for him on the tops of the mountains, and they robbed all that went along that way by them, and Abimelech was told about it.
But Nabal answered and the servants of David, and said, Who is David? and what is the son of Isai? servants are multiplied now a days that flee from their masters'
And it came to pass, when she came unto him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted from off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou?
And one doth not take him the preciousness: but is called by God, as Aaron also was.
For God making promise unto Abraham, because he had no one greater by whom he might swear, sware by himself,
Now Hannah spake in her heart. Only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: wherefore Eli thought she was drunken.
Also the Strength of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent."
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And when the Ashdodites, arose early the next day, behold, Dagon lay upon his face upon the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and they took Dagon, and set him again in his stead.
So they went through the hill-country of Ephraim and through the land of Shalishah, but they saw no sign of them, then they went through the land of Shaalim, but they were not there: and they went through the land of the Benjamites, but they did not found them not.
And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,
And the children of Israel served Eglon, the king of Moab eighteen years.
And the king said unto the posts that stood about him, Turn and put the priests of Jehovah to death; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not certify me. But the servants of the king were not willing to put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
Then said Jonathan, My father hath terrified the land: behold, I pray you, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
And an angel of the Lord appeared unto her, and said, Thou art the barren and without children: but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And all the people said unto Samuel, "Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we not die; for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask for a king."
Having confidence in this very thing, that he that have gotten cattle a good work in ye shall keep it until the day of Jesus Christ:
And Jehovah visited Hannah, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel waxed before Jehovah.
And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she pleased Samson well.
where Jesus the forerunner for us, entered, because he became a high priest for ever according to the order of Melchizedek.
Saul said unto Samuel, "I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and your words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
But what things were unto me gains thereof, these things have I counted, because of the Christ, loss:
And Michal took an image and laid it on the bed, and put a goat's skin with the hair at the head of it, and covered it with clothes.
To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him prince over my people Israel; and he will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
And Jehovah raised up judges, to deliver them from the hand of those that oppressed them: but they would not hearken unto them,
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land; but the king of Edom gave no heed. And they also sent to the king of Moab; and he would not. And Israel abode in Kadesh.
So David arose, and passed over, that he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, the king of Gath;
And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and the Lord set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host: and the host fled to Bethshittah in Zererath, and to the border of Abelmeholah, unto Tabbath.
Samson took hold of the two midst pillars on which the house rested, and leaned upon them, the one with his right hand, and the other with his left.
and the servants of Saul say unto him, Behold, we pray thee, a spirit of sadness God is terrify thee;
But Saul, answered him and said, He gave us word that the asses had return. But he said nothing to him of Samuel's words about the kingdom.
Then the men of Israel set forward out for the battle against Benjamin, and the men of Israel took up ordering against them unto battle at Gibeah.
And as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah by ceasing to pray for thee, I will instruct thee in the good and righteous way.
And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.
and the wife of Gilead bare him sons, and the wife's sons grow up and cast out Jephthah, and say unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in the house of our father; for the son of another woman thou.'
And David received at her hand all that she had brought him, and said unto her, Go in peace into thy house, behold, I have heard thy voice, and do honor thy face.
Therefore David consulted the Lord again. And he answered and said unto him, Arise, and go to Ceila: for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
And the angel answered him, If thou press me, I will not eat of thy bread: but if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, offer it to Jehovah. And Manue knew not it was the angel of Jehovah.
And David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest; and Ahimelech trembled at meeting David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
Again Israel trust in their strength and their number, set the battle in array in the same place, where they had fought with this;
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my wine, which cheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
For who, when they heard it, were disobedient? Surely it was not all that went forth out of Egypt with Moses?
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand; and they smote of them in Bezek ten thousand men.
Then Jonathan said, "My father hath dealt ill with the land! See now that mine eyes have brightened because I have tasted a little of this honey.
And Jehovah visited Anna, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child Samuel became great before Jehovah.
For I know that this will turn out to my salvation through your supplication and the staff of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
So that with good courage we shall say, "The Jehovah is my helper. I will not be afraid; What can man do unto me?"
For as long as the son of Jesse is alive upon the earth, thou and thy kingdom shall not be established; Now therefore send and bring him to me, for he will surely die!"
And Adoni-Bezek fled, and they pursued after him, and took hold of him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
And the men of Israel returned to the children of Benjamin, and they smote them with the edge of the sword, both the inhabitants of city and the beasts that were found; they also set on fire all the cities that they found.
And by faith Moses, having been born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child seemly, and were not afraid of the decree of the king;
and said, I will make you to come up out of Egypt, and bring you into the land which I sware unto your fathers, and say, I do not break my covenant with you for ever: yea and ye make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land their altars ye break down; and ye have not hearkened to my voice; what this ye have done?
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah as thou goest unto Shur that is over against to Egypt.
And it came to pass, when Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and set up Baal-Berith as their god.
And he brought down the people unto the water: and Jehovah said unto Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself; likewise every one that bowed down upon his knees to drink.
Jerub-Baal son of Joash dwelt in his own house.
Therefore my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, And on this condition will I make a covenant with you, that I may pluck out all thy right eyes, and make you a reproach in all Israel.
Now I beseech you, brethren, bear with my word of exhortation, for I have written unto you briefly.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned, do Thou unto us according to all that is good in thine eyes: only deliver us, we pray thee, this day.'
where Jesus is entered as forerunner for us, become for ever a high priest according to the ordinance of Melchisedec.
Now they told David, "Look, the Philistines fight in Keilah and they are more into the threshing floors."
Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin came to their death, all mighty men of war.
And after him, Ibzan of Beth-lehem, was judge of Israel.
But ye are come unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels,
And Saul inquired of Jehovah; But Jehovah did not answer him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.
And his lord said unto him, Let us not turn aside unto the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel, thither, but we have passed over unto Gibeah.'
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side and Israel in the mount on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
Then they rose early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah and returned to their house at Ramah: Then Elkanah lay with Hannah his wife, and Jehovah remembered her.
And the men of Israel went forth to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them at Gibeah.
Jehovah therefore be judge, and give sentence between me and thee, and see; and plead my cause, and deliver me out of your hand."
Samson said unto her, "If they bind me with seven green cords that were never dried up, then shall I become weak, and be as another man."
And she shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, Neither let her wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; All that I commanded her let her observest not;
brethren, I would not reckon myself to have laid hold therein, and one thing which are behind indeed forgetting, and to the things before he stretched forth even
Then said David unto the Philistine, Thou shalt come unto me with a sword, and with a spear and with a shield: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the forces of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land unto my place.
Zebulun hath not drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, and the inhabitants of Nahalol, but the Canaanites dwell in the midst thereof: and they become put under taskwork.
Then he himself went to Ramah, and came to the great well in Secu; and questioned the people he said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, They are at Naioth in Ramah:
And they see the men of Israel, who were beyond the valley, and that were beyond the Jordan, that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and flee, and Philistines come in, and dwell in them.
So they put away the foreign gods from among them, and became the Lord's servants; and his soul was displeased, because of the affliction of Israel.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, Samuel communed with Saul upon the top of the house.
by so much of a better covenant hath Jesus become safety,
Then he made him that remaineth have dominion over the nobles among the people; Jehovah made me have dominion over the mighty.
And so we see that they were not able to enter because of unbelief.
Saying, Our family maketh an offering in the city, and my brethren have commanded me to be there: so now, if I have found favor in thy sight, let me go away and see my brethren: This is why he hath not come to the king's table.
Now Jonathan again made David to swear, because he loved him; for with the love of his soul he loved him.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim, in Judah. therefore they called that place Mahaneh Dan, unto this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And there remained of all the number of Benjamin only six hundred men that were able to escape, and flee into the wilderness: and they abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
And here dying men receive tithes: but there of whom the witness is that he liveth;
And by faith also, and Sarah he received the ability to procreate even past the days of her age, because he regarded the one that had promised to be trustworthy.
They cried unto Jehovah, and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you.'
Therefore on that day he called him for. saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath thrown down his altar.
For we know him that said, "Vengeance belongeth unto me," saith Jehovah, "I will repay." Again, "The Jehovah will judge his people."
Rejoice in the Lord always: again, I will say, Rejoice.
He will take the tenth part of thy sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
And when he was come into his house, he took the knife; and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, according to her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
having chosen rather to be exercised with the people of God, Than to have sin's pleasure for a season,
Him then I hope to send with all speed, when I am able to see what things shall go for me:
Forsaking him, and served Baal and Astaroth.
And in all his promises David did wisely; and Jehovah was with him.
and he said unto him, "Thus saith Jephthah, 'Israel did not take the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon,
This day Jehovah will deliver you into my hand, and I will smite thee down and cut off thy head. then I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth, so that all the earth may know that there is a God that is for Israel.
And the sons of Heli were base fellows not knowing the Lord,
I pray thee, forgive the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house, because my lord fought the battles of Jehovah, and evil was not found in thee all thy days.
as it is right for me to consider this about all of thee, because I have you in my heart, since both in my bonds, and in the defence and would be confirmed. the gospel all of ye are partakers of grace with me.
And David spake and said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah Joab's brother, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul to over to Mahanaim; And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
And the trees said unto the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And all Israel did hear, saying, "Saul hath smote the garrison of the Philistines; and also, Israel is become a stench among the Philistines!" So the people were called out after Saul to Gilgal.
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and kill me, lest these uncircumcised come, and kill me, and trespass-offering mocketh me. And his armorbearer would not; for he was slain at his presence. And Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And Micaiah consecrateth the hand of the Levite, and the young man is to him for a priest, and he is in the house of Micah,
Saul said unto his servants that stood round about him, "Hear now, ye Benjamites! Will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards? Will he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
and choose him out of all the tribes of Israel, to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to put on the ephod before me? and I gave unto the house of thy father all the offerings of Jehovah made by fire of the children of Israel.
Asher drove not out the inhabitants of Accho, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor Ahlab, nor Achzib, nor Helbah, nor Aphik, nor Rehob:
If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, we will be servants unto you; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, ye shall be servants, and shall serve us.
and he took it out in his hands, and went on, and did eat as he went. And he came to his father, and of his mother, and gave them, and they did eat: but he did not tell them that he had taken the honey out of the carcass of the lion.
And they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have dealt perversely: roll me now a great stone.
And this whole congregation shall know, that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for it is his battle, and he will deliver thee into our hands.
And Ehud, escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the stone, and escaped unto Seirath.
And the five men went, and came unto Laish. and see the people that is in the midst thereof, that dwell securely, after the custom of Sidonians, quiet and confident; and there is none putting to shame in the land in thing, yet possessing prison garments. And they far off from the Sidonians, and have no word with man.
For God is my witness, that I long for all of you with the passion of Christ Jesus.
And God recompensed the wickedness that Abimelech committed against his father by killing his seventy brethren.
Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him; And he feared his father's household and the men of the city, he could not do it by day, but he did it by night.
As soon as ye enter the city, and ye shall find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat, until he cometh, because he must bless the sacrifice. Then afterward the bidden guests shall eat. So then go up, because ye shall find him today!"
So return from following David, Saul went against the Philistines; so that place was called Sela-hammah-lekoth.
But Adoni-Bezek fled. and they pursued after him, seized him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
Salute all thy princes and all the saints. The Italians salute you.
Moreover Jehovah will give Israel up with you into the hands of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons will be with me, and Jehovah will give up the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And the man went out of the city, out of Beth-Lehem-Judah, to sojourn where he findeth; and cometh to the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, to work his way.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you before long, that I may be comforted when I have tidings of you.
And David arose, and fled that day from the face of Saul: and came to Achis the king Gittite.
Then Jonathan said unto David, To-morrow is the new moon: and thou shalt be swerved because thy throne shall be empty.
And it was told unto Saul, "David is in Naioth in Ramah."
Two of David's wives had taken captive. also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
So all the people went to Gilgal: and there in Gilgal they made Saul king before Jehovah; and peace-offerings were offered before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced.
Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, "You are blessed by O Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Yahweh."
David went out when Saul sent him, and forth he prospered: So Saul disposed the men of the war, and it pleased all the people and even pleased the servants of Saul.
Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, "Why hast thou descended? to whom thou hast left them few sheep in the wilderness? I know your arrogancy, and the stubbornness of thy heart; for thou art come down that ye might see the battle."
And all the men of Israel are risen from their place, and lay themselves at Baal-Tamar, and the ambush of Israel is coming forth out of its place, out of the meadow of Gibeah.
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal comely, and goodly to look upon. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he.
But now they study to a good land, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city.
But Hannah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned: and then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
behold, I lay the fleece of wool in the threshing-floor: if dew is on the fleece alone, and upon all the earth drought then will I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken;'
And now if ye have done truly and uprightly in making Abimelech king, and if thou hast done well to Jerubbaal and his house in reward for the work of his hands:
And the king said unto her, Shall not fear; for what hast thou seen?' and the woman said unto Saul, `Gods I have seen coming up out of the earth.'
Why hast thou rejected those away my sacrifices and my gifts which I commanded to bring to the temple: and thou hast rather honored thy sons than me, to eat the first-fruits of every meal-offering of my people Israel?
For it is evident that our Lord is of the seed of Judah, a tribe in regard of which Moses said nothing concerning priests.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson, and the child grew, and Jehovah bless him,
For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never with them sacrifices which they offered year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect.
But Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day; for to-day Jehovah hath wrought deliverance in Israel.
Wherefore, took courage, we may say, Jehovah my help, and I will not be afraid: what shall man do unto me?
And the man said unto Eli, I am come from the army and are come away this day from the battle. And he said, How did it go, my son?
Therefore saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I will surely said, Thy house and the house of thy father, do walk up and down before me for ever: yea and now saith Jehovah, Far be it from Me! for he that doth honor me, I honor, and them that despised me, are abject.
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit said, `To-day, if his voice ye may hear,
So that it became manifest through all the Praetorium, and to all the rest, that I was a prisoner by reason of Christ;
Whosoever rejected the law of Moses dieth without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.
Now Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And he arose, and followed his wife: and he came to the man, said unto him, Art thou he that spake unto the woman? And he answered, I am.
Then come down, thou, the remnant of nobles, [as his] people; Jehovah! come down with me in the midst of the mighty men.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive and bear a son.
And David said to himself, Some day death shall come to me by the hand of Saul: the only thing for me to do is to get away into the land of the Philistines: then Saul will give up hope of taking me in any part of the land of Israel: and so I may be able to get away from him.
And his brethren came down, and all the house of his father, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zoreah and Eshtaol, in the sepulchre of Manoah his father; and he had judged Israel twenty years.
being stedfast to him that did appoint him, as also Moses in all his house,
Then it was said unto Saul, Behold, the people are sinning against Jehovah, and brought the blood with the flesh. And he said to them that told him, Now let a great stone be rolled unto me here.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should have slain David.
Both the lion and the bear hath thy servant smitten, and this uncircumcised Philistine, shall be as one of them, because he defied the flocks of the living God.'
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did not I deliver thee from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him; and he said, They have called unto David ten thousands, and to me they have called but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?
let's draw near with a perfect heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from the evil conscience, and having our body washed with pure water,
and this to thee the sign that cometh unto thy two sons, unto Hophni and Phinehas in one day they die both of them;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou hinder me, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after Dan their father, who was born to Israel; but the former name of the city was Laish.
And the people were moved with compassion, and Benjamin, because Jehovah had let his wrath loose on the tribes of Israel.
if by any means I may attain unto the resurrection from the dead.
Then shalt thou go on from thence and further thou shalt come unto the oak of Tabor. There three men will meet you, that go up to God at Beth-el. one shall be bearing three male kid goats; one shall be bearing three loaves; and one shall be bearing a bottle of wine.
And Samson said unto them, I will utter unto you a riddle, which if ye declare unto me within the seven days of the feast, I will give you thirty shirts, and as many coats:
David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was fleece his sheep.
So they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines, and they said, "Send away the ark of the God of Israel and let it return unto its place, that it will not put us and our people." For a deadly confusion was throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.
Now the words that David had spoken were heard and they told them to Saul, and he called him.
And David went he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where they that were left behind stayed.
So do all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah, And they that love him As the going out of the sun in its might!' and the land resteth forty years.
Yahweh's Spirit came mightily upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men of them, and took their spoil, then gave the changes of raiment. to them that declared the riddle. his wrath kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
But I trust in Jehovah that I myself also shall come to pass.
And about the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, "Don't be afraid: for thou hast borne a son." But she didn't answer, neither did she regard it.
Now the house was full of men and women. and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men and women were upon the roof; looking upon while Samson made play.
And the messengers come in, and, behold, the teraphim on the bed, and the mattress of goats' it, his pillows.
For to which of the messengers said He ever, My thou art the Son this day have I begotten thee?' and again, I will be unto him for a father, and he shall be my son?'
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the assembly I will sing praise to Thee;' and again, I will trust in Him;'
Then the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah and the vessel that was by it, in which were the gold things, and they set them on the great stone. Then the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and have burned incense unto Jehovah in that day.
After him Jair the Gileadite rose up, and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
In this way God, being determined to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed with an oath,
and the servants of Achish say unto him, Is not this David king of the land? is it not of this one they sing in dances, saying, `Saul smote among his thousands, and David among his myriads?'
and Saul is eyeing David from that day and thenceforth.
Then the two made a covenant before Jehovah: David tarried at Horesh, and Jonathan went to his house.
And Saul would have sent his spear through him, pinning him to the wall, and he went forth and the spear went into the wall: and that night David fled and escaped.
For in one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.
Now when he had gone, the king's servants came, and saw that the doors of the summer-house were locked; and they said, It may be that he is in his summer-house for an inner purpose.
Yahweh's angel appeared unto him, and said unto him, "Yahweh is with you, ye mighty man of valor!"
The kings came and warred, then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. they took no advantage of money.
Only worthily of the gospel of the Christ set yourselves, that, whether having come and seen you, whether being absent I may hear of the things concerning you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul, striving together for the faith of the gospel,
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raiseth unto them a saviour, Ehud, son of Gera, a Benjamite now (the man, that is shut of his right hand), and the children of Israel sent by his hand a present to Eglon; king of Moab:
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be the sign unto us.
Who in the days of his flesh, having offered up both supplications and supplication to him that was able to save him out of death, with strong crying and tears; (and having been heard because of his piety;)
And he said, Send me away, I pray thee, for a family sacrifice we have in the city, and my brother himself hath given commandment to me, and now, if I have found favor in thy sight, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren: therefore he hath not come unto the table of the king.'
The Amorites plucked the children of Dan into the hill-country, for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley;
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither yesterday, nor to day?
Gilead hath remained beyond the Jordan. Why did Dan sojourn, with ships? Asher sat at the border of the waters, and by his coves he hath been settling down.
Jehovah, broken down are his adversaries, against them in the heavens He thundereth, Even Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, and giveth strength to his king, And lifted up the horn of his anointed.'
but David went to and fro from Saul to feed the sheep of his father in Beth-lehem.
"In the days of Shamgar son of Beth-anath, in the days of Jael, the caravans had ceased, with them that pass they kept to the byways.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy strength, and thou shalt give Israel out of the hand of Midian, know that I have sent thee.
and Elon the Zebulunites died, and was buried in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
Won't ye possess that which Chemosh the god giveth thee to possess? So whosoever Jehovah our God hath cast out from before us, them will we possess.
Even as also in another he saith, Thou a priest for ever according to the ordinance of Melchisedec.
Fit you in all goodness that ye may do his will; doing in you that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
So Saul was watching David with suspicion from that day onward.
And it came to pass the next day that an evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house, but David played with his hand, as on other days; and the spear was in Saul's hand.
And after him, Elon the Zebulonite was judge of Israel; and he was judge of Israel for ten years.
Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, "Where didst thou go?" And he said, "To seek the asses. And when we saw that they were not found, we came to Samuel."
And Abigail came to Nabal, and, lo, he hath a feast in his house, like a feast of the king, and the heart of Nabal glad within him, and he drunk greatly; and she told him not anything, less or more, until the light of the morning.
Then Samuel said, Let all Israel come to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for you.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak, for thy servant heareth.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, "Yahweh hath not chosen this one, either."
Also Jonathan, answered and his father Saul, said unto him, Why is he to be put to death? What hath he done?
And Saul called all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And David said unto the Philistine, Thou come to me with a sword and a spear and a javelin: but I come unto you in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the forces of Israel upon which thou hast set shame.
For they that say such things show plainly that they seek country.
always in every request of mine on behalf of you all making my prayer with joy,
and a certain woman shall cast a piece of a rider on the head of Abimelech, and brake his skull,
Because thou hast not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, nor didst his fierce anger upon Amalek therefore this thing hath Jehovah done to thee this day;
Now the angel of Jehovah came and sat under the oak in Ophrah, in the field of Joash the Abiezrite; and his son Gideon was grinding in the place where the grapes virginity; so that the Midianites might not see it.
Then David and his men, about six hundred of them went out of Keilah, and escaped whither they were able to go. And Saul, heard that David had escaped from Keilah, went not there.
And when the Philistines had beard this, and it was about among them, that Samson was come into the city, they compassed him, set keepeth at the gate of the city, and watching there all the night in silence, that in the morning they might put him as he went out.
And thou shalt beheld an adversary [in My] habitation, in all that he will good with Israel, and there is not an old man in thy house all the days.
And they put his armor in the house of the Ashtoreth and fastened his dead body to the wall of and Shan.
Rejoice in the Lord alway; again I say, rejoice.
But Hannah did not go, for she said unto her husband, I will not go until the child is taken from the breast, and then I will take him with me and put him before Jehovah, where he may be for ever.
So David and his men rose up early in the morning to return unto the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
Then Samson went down to Thamnatlia, and seeing there a woman of the daughters of the Philistines,
and he hath thirty sons riding upon thirty ass-colts, and they have thirty cities, (they call them Havoth-Jair unto this day), which is in the land of Gilead.
Now in saying a new thing, he hath made the former old. And that which wasteth and groweth old, is near the end.
And Samuel said, What, doth the Lord desire burnt-offering and meal-offering, and not rather that the voice of Jehovah should be obeyed? For obedience is better than sacrifices: and hearken rather than to offer the fat of rams.
And, "You, Jehovah, in the beginning, laid the foundation of the earth; And the heavens are the work of thy hands.
And as he talked with them, behold, the champion, the Philistine, of Gath, Goliath by name, came up out of the flocks of the Philistines, and said the same words; and David heard them.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread round about over all the ground, eating, drinking, and dancing. because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
As all the works they have done from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, until this day, they have forsaken me, and have served other godsso they do unto you also.
but one hath testified somewhere, saying, What is man, that thou rememberest him, or the son of man that thou visitest him?
Then said Saul unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words: because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
And he said unto him, "If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that it is ye that talk with me.
nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest goeth into the holy place year by year with blood not his own,
But if ye continue to do wickedness, both ye and your king shall be swept away."
And the lords of the Philistines went on with their hundreds and their thousands, and David and his men followed with Achish.
Now where there is forgiveness of these things, there is no more an offering for sin.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
for whom Jehovah loveth he chastens, and a scourge every son whom he receiveth;
and he smote it into the pan, or pot, or caldron, or pot; the priest took of it all that the flesh-hook brought up. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that were present.
and they set them up Micah's graven image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the chief of the people: and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
And this we will do, if God permit.
And Ephraim hath not drive out the Canaanites that dwell in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwell in the midst of it, in Gezer.
that ye may become perfect and innocent; children of God without fault in the midst of a perverse and perverse generation, among whom ye shine as the stars in the world,
But I am very glad in Jehovah, that your zeal for me is alive again; though ye did so be anxious for me, but ye were not able to perform it.
and being perfected; he became eternal salvation unto all them that obey him,
Speak unto the people, and proclaim in the ears of all men, I Whosoever is fearful and timorous, let him return. So two and twenty thousand men went away from mount Gilead and returned home, and only ten thousand remained.
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate.
For I have no one of the same mind that shall minister with true felt it how ye get on.
And he said unto all Israel, Ye are on the one side, and I and Jonathan my son are upon another side;' and the people say unto Saul, That which is good in thine eyes do.'
Then Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez and took it.
Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Bethanath; but he dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-anath, became tributary unto them.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Jephthah, Wherefore passedst thou over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And now the king went before you: but I am old and greyheaded: and my sons are with thee: having then communed with you from my youth unto this day, behold, here I am.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
And these things having been thus prepared, into the first tabernacle, indeed, at all times the priests shall go in, working the ministrations,
And Dalila said unto him again: How long dost thou deceive me, and tell me lies, show me wherewith thou mayest be bound. And Samson answered and said unto her, If thou plattest the seven locks of my head with a cord, and tying them round about a nail fastenest it in the earth, I shall be weak.
And he smote them from Aroer, which is till ye come to Mennith, twenty cities, and as far as Abel, which is set with vineyards, with a very great slaughter: and the children of Ammon were humbled by the children of Israel.
For that princes led in Israel, For that the people willingly offered themselves, Bless Jehovah!
And Abimelech went up unto mount Zalmon, he and all his army that were with him, and Abimelech took the axe in his hand, and cut down a bundle of brushwood, and he lifted it, and put it upon his shoulders. And he said unto the host that was with him, "What thou hast seen me do, quickly do also."
And when the burning began to rise up out of the city as a pillar of smoke, Benjamin looked behind them; and behold, the whole city ascended [in smoke] to the heavens.
for also our God a devouring fire.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, for it hath pleased Jehovah to make thee a people for himself.
Only lead your lives, worthily of the gospel of Christ, that, whether I come and see you or am absent I hear thy affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul contending side by side for the faith of the gospel,
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, shall put my laws on their heart, and upon their minds I will write them,'
But if ye are without chastening, of which all have been made partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
So then, prepare one new wagon and two milking kine that have never had a yoke upon them, and thou shalt harness the kine to the wagon and then turn their calves from following them unto their stall.
And if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phurah thy servant down to the camp:
and Jesse called unto Abinadab, and brought him by before Samuel: and he said, Yea, on this Jehovah hath not fixed.'
And Hannah answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a broken spirit: I have drunk no wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
The kings came upon to the battle, the kings of Canaan were warring; in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo: they took no profit in money.
They were making their hearts merry, when behold, the men of the city, sons of fellow, compassed the house, beating at the door, and they spake unto the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
And the watchmen saw a man coming forth out of the city, and said unto him, If thou wilt show us the way into the city, we will deal kindly with you.
And by faith Moses, when he became a man, had no desire to be named the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate, tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
Now Kish begat Saul; but Ner, the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
And David said to Abimelech the priest: And the king commanded me a business, and said, Let no man know the thing for which thou art sent by me, and what manner of commandments I have given thee; and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child served Jehovah before Eli the priest.
And Jephthah cometh into Mizpeh, unto his house, and behold, his daughter cometh forth to meet him with timbrels, and with choruses, and save her alone: he hath none, son or daughter.
And behold, Saul came after the calves out of the field; and Saul said, What the people that they weep? And they declared unto him the words of the men of Jabesh,
So that my bands are made manifest in Christ, in all the court, and in all other places;
And God sore punish the enemies of David and again do thus if I leave behind anything that is his until the morning, not so much as one male!"
And Manoah said unto his wife, We surely die: for we have seen God.'
And they found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and fought against him, and they smote the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
Jonathan caused David to swear again, for the love which he had unto him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Now unto our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Because God had kept some better thing for us, so that it was not possible for them to become complete without us.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and he said, "Here is Zebah and Zalmunna; about whom thou defied me, saying, 'Is the palm of Zebah and Zalmunna; in thy hand now, that we should feedest thy weary men?'"
"Then a remnant of the nobles and the people came down; Jehovah came down for me against the mighty.
And it was so, that, all that saw it said, There hath been no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take counsel, and speak your ears.
And Saul casteth the javelin at him to smite him, and Jonathan knoweth that it hath been determined by his father to slain David.
Zebulun was a people that jeopardized their lives to the death; Naphtali also, upon the high places of the field.
Now Hobab, the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, had come up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of Arad; and he went and dwelt among the Amalekites;
But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the remnant of the people:
And she arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thine handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
But his master said unto him, We will not go out of our way into another city, whose people are not of the children of Israel; but we will go along to Gibeah.
And he returned after a time to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and, behold, [there was] a swarms of bees in the carcass of the lion, and honey;
nor that he should offer himself often, as the high priest goeth into the holy places every year with blood not his own:
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.
I will make mention of Jehovah their God, and he delivered them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hasor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth shook.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me and told me lies. Tell me with what thou mightest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou shouldest weave the seven locks of my head with the web.
For a tent was prepared, the first one, wherein were the candlestick and the table and the presentation of the loaves, which is called the holy place.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many children to glory, to make a God of their salvation perfect, through sorrows;
And Zebul said unto him, "Where then is thy glory, ye that said, 'Who is Abimelech that we should serve him?' Is this not the army that ye rejected? Oh, go forth now and fight against them."
For this Melchisedek, king of Salem priest of God Most High, who did meet Abraham return from the slaughter of the kings, and did bless him,
Therefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, "Sacrifice and offering thou didn't desire, but ye prepared a body for me.
All the saints salute thee, chiefly they that are of Caesar's household.
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the Ashtoreths; and now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
Now Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, be witness; when I have had opportunity of talking to my father, to-morrow about this time if his heart unto David are good, will I not send and give you the tidings?
All the brethren that are with me, salute you. All the saints salute you. especially those that are of Caesar's household.
Saul said unto David, "You are not able to go against this Philistine, to fight with him; for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth."
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that thou said unto me, and have made a king over you.
And the Philistines gather all their camps unto Aphek, and the children of Israel was encamped at a fountain which in Jezreel,
And the children of Ammon were called together and encamped in Gilead? and the children of Israel gathered together and encamped in Mizpah.
Therefore they sent the ark of God into Accaron. And when the ark of God was come into Ekron, the Accaronites cried out, saying, They have brought the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people.
and Saul said, Hear, I pray thee, son of Ahitub;' and he said, Here am I, my lord.'
And the children of Israel go up and down from thence at that time, every man to his tribe, and his own house; and they went out thence every man to his inheritance.
Obey your heads, and be submissive; for they watch over your souls as those that shall give sake; that they may do this with joy, and not groaning, for this [would be] unprofitable for you.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God: ye are not to worship the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye are living, but ye did not hearken unto my voice.
Then all the Midianites, Amalekites, and the people of the east gathered together and passed over the Jordan: and they encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Then Samuel took the bottle of oil, and put the oil upon him, and gave him a kiss and said, Is not Jehovah with the holy oil making thee to rule over Israel, his people? and ye shall have power over the people of Jehovah, and thou shalt make them out of the hand of their enemies round about them, and this shall be the sign unto thee:
who hath been made not according to law of fleshly commandment, but according to power of indissoluble life.
And all the people said unto Samuel, "Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God so that we will not die, because we have added unto all our sins by beseeching a king for ourselves."
And all the people rose up as one man, saying, We will not any man go to his tent, neither will we any one turn to his house.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for from all this people I get a reckoning of your evil ways.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou keep me I will not take of your food; but if thou shalt make a burnt-offering, let it be offered unto Jehovah. For it had not come into Manoah's mind that he was the angel of Jehovah.
Ehud, made himself a sword which had two ends thereof, a cubit in length; and he had worn it under his raiment on his right thigh:
and take the ark of Jehovah, and put it on the cart, and the golden jewels, which ye return him as a trespass-offering, put in the coffer by the side thereof; and send him away that it may go.
and take their daughters unto them for wives, and their daughters have given unto their sons, and they serve their gods;
And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and fruitful; and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thy hand.
And from thence, David went up and hid themselves in the refuge of En-gedi.
Now the house was full of men and women. and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and upon the roof there were about three thousand men and women, that looked upon while Samson made play.
And David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And Hannah, in prayer before Jehovah, said, My heart is glad in Jehovah, my horn is lifted up in the Lord: My mouth is open wide over them that hate me, because my joy is in thy salvation.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they each departed unto his place.
And not one of these rose the good things of the covenant, though they all had a good witness through faith;
And David is hid in the field, and it is the new moon, and the king sat down by the food to eat,
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah.
And it came to pass after days, in the days of wheat harvest, that Samson looketh after his wife, with a goat, and said, I go in unto my wife, to the inner chamber;' and her father hath not lawful him to go in,
Then David said unto his young men, Let each man gird upon his sword. And they girded on every man his sword. And David also girded on his sword: and there followed David about four hundred men: and two hundred remained with the baggage;
So he brought him to his house, and he fed the asses therewith; they washed their feet, did eat, and drink.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, `Hearken to their voice, and thou hast caused to reign over them a king.' And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.'
Because of thy help in preaching good tidings from the first day even until now.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and encamped beside Ebenezer: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them; and Jephthah uttered all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about, and passed on, and gone down to Gilgal.
And the hair of his head began to spring forth; when he hath been shaven
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.)
And the man rose up to go away, but his father-in-law would not let him go, so he rested there again for the night.
Wherefore let us also, seeing we are compassed with so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight and the sin which so quickly entangleth us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,
And they said, "Yahweh, the God of Israel, why hath it come to pass in Israel, that there should be one tribe lacking in Israel today?"
And, "You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands;
Think this in yourselves which was also in Christ Jesus,
and had taken captive the women and all that were therein, Both small and great. They didn't kill any, but carried them off, and went their way.
So Jerobaal the son of Joash went, and dwelt in his own house.
And the men of Israel were called from Naphtali, from Asher, and from all of Manasseh, and they pursued after Midian.
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered Samson our enemy into our hand.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
And Achish said unto his servants, Behold, ye see a man play the madman; why do ye bring him in unto me?
And David said to Ahimelech the priest, And the king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business whereon I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee; and I delivered them to the young men to such and such a place.
And afterward the children of Judah pursued to fight against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and the South, and the lowland, for abundance.
And David was greatly afflicted: for the people was minded to stone him; for the soul of every man was sore grieved for his sons and daughters: but David took courage, in Jehovah his God.
Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to meet the Philistines unto the battle; and they encamped in Ebenezer, and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, "Show the right." Jonathan and Saul were chosen, but the people escaped.
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law: and the days were not gave up the ghost.
Now if it were possible for things to be perfected together through the priests of the house of Levi (for the law was given to the people concerning them), what further need was there for another priest, who was of the order of Melchizedek and not of the order of Aaron?
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto you.
And the king of the children of Ammon would not hearken unto the words of Jephte, which he sent him by the angels.
and Jesse took an ass laden with bread and a bottle of wine, and a kid of the flock, and sent them by the hand of David his son to Saul.
"Now therefore take and prepare yourselves a new cart, and two milk kine, whereon there is come no yoke; and bind the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
So we must go out to him without the camp, bearing the reproach.
Then a man from the host informed him and said, "Your father made the host swear a solemn oath, saying, 'Cursed be the man that eateth food today,'" so the host is faint;
Then they took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk in Jabesh, and they fasted seven days.
And again, when he brought the firstborn into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And it came to pass, when the demon from God was upon Saul, that David took a harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was Yea, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
And by faith we know that seasons, was appointed by the word of God, that what is seen hath not been made from things which only seem to be.
Thou makest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honor and didst set him over the works of thy hands.
For this cause I ought to make the copies of the things in heaven clean with these offerings: but the things themselves are cleansed with better offerings than these.
So the Philistines warred, and Israel was overthrown, and every man fled to his own habitation. and there was an exceeding great slaughter: for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen:
For where there is a covenant, the death of the testator must of necessity, come in.
Thus they inclosed the Benjamites round about, and pursued them, and trod them down with ease over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And he did not make an offering of himself repetitions, as the high priest goeth into the holy place every year with blood which is not be his;
And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was fleece his sheep.
Now therefore rise thou early in the morning, and the servants of thy lord that came with thee, when ye are risen up early in the morning, and have light, then go ye.'
And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz, died.
And almost all things, according to the law, are cleansed with blood: and without shed blood there is no remission.
And straightway Saul fell all along on the ground, for he was put in the words of Samuel, and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all that day.
Whereupon neither the first covenant was dedicated without blood.
And the children of Israel did not remember Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of their enemies round about,
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Shall that which is good in thine eyes; abide till thy weaning him; only, Jehovah establish his word;' and the woman abideth and nursed her son till she hath weaned him,
And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing careless by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
but if also I am poured forth upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and joy with you all,
And Israel set an ambush round about Gibeah.
Then David came to Ziklag, and he sent some of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, "Here is a present for you from the spoil of the enemies of Yahweh!"
Hearken unto them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls: as they that shall give sakes, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you.
For there is a set aside of the commandment went before for its weakness, and unprofitableness,
Moreover also the Glory of Israel shall not lie; and his purpose may not be changed: for he is not a man, whose purpose may be changed.
Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, "Turn in, my lord, turn in unto me; don't be afraid." He came in unto her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug.
And it came to pass in the ascent of the flame from off the altar toward heaven, that the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, and Manoah and his wife are shall look, and they fell upon their faces to the earth,
Then the princes of the Philistines went out; and as often as they went forth, David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was highly esteemed.
But when the time came to give of Saul, Saul's daughter, to David, she was given to Adriel of Meholath.
And Samson and his father and his mother went down to Timnah, and they came to the vineyards of Timnah, and suddenly a young lion came roaring to meet him.
Because of the flowing hair of the stall; in Israel, because the people gave themselves freely, praise Jehovah.
Behold, my daughter, that is a virgin, and his concubine: let me bring them out, and humble ye them, and do unto them as is good in thy sight; but to this man do not so vile a thing.
Seeing therefore it abideth that some should enter in, and they to whom the gospel was before preached failed to enter in because of disobedience;
And they said, What man is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpah to Jehovah? And behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh-gilead, to the assembly;
David tarried in the wilderness in the strongholds, and remained in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph; Saul sought him every day, but God didn't deliver him into his hand.
And he that sacrificed said unto him, Let the fat first be burnt to day according to the ordinance, and then take as much as thy soul desireth. But he answered and said unto him, Not so: but thou shalt give it me now; or else I will take it by force.
But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he powerfully oppressed the children of Israel twenty years.
even the way he did initiate among us new and living, through the veil, that is, his flesh,
And Samson went to Gaza, and saw there a harlot went in unto her.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
Then Heli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
Now the ark of Jehovah had been in the border of the Philistines seven months,
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Know ye that our brother Timothy hath been loosed, with whom I will see you, if he cometh quickly enough.
If therefore any exhortation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of spirit, if any bowels and mercies,
And she arose, and bowed herself down with her face to the earth, and said, Lo, let thy servant be a maid-servant, to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, there is found in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver, let us give it to the man of God, that he may tell us our way.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Let the woman hear what I spake unto her.
But this with an oath, by him that said unto him, Jehovah hath sworn, and he will not repent: Thou art a priest for ever.)
Now stand ye are and see this great thing which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
Then said Saul unto the servants that stood round about him, "Please hearken, Benjaminites! Will the son of Jesse give you all fields and vineyards? Will he make all of you captains of thousands and captains of hundreds?
And the children of Israel go up against the children of Benjamin, on the third day, and lay themselves against Gibeah, as time by time.
But of the Son he saith, "Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever. The sceptre of equity is the sceptre of thy of God.
And when they heard that what David said, they gave Saul word of it; and he sent for him.
And the men of Israel and Judah rising up shouted, and pursued after the Philistines until they came unto the valley and to the gates of Ekron, and there fell many wounded of the Philistines in the way of Saraim, and as far as Gath, and as far as Accaron.
And the people said unto Saul, Is death to come to Jonathan, the laborer of this great salvation for Israel? Let it not be so: by the living Lord, not one hair of his head is to be handled, for he hath been working with God this day: So the people kept Jonathan from death.
And the name of the man Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigal and the woman of good understanding, and well-favored; and the man hard and evil doings; and he a Calebite.
And he said unto the men of Soccoth: give, I beseech you, bread to the people that is with me, for they are faint: that we may pursue Zebee, and Salmana the kings of Madian.
for he also aileth nigh to death, but God did deal kindly with him, and not with him only, but also with me, that sorrow upon sorrow I might rejected.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and it shall devour the inhabitants of Shechem and Beth-millo; and let fire come out from the inhabitants of Shechem and Beth-millo, for the destruction of Abimelech;
Then Samuel said, Make Agag, the king of the Amalekites, come hither to me. And Agag came to him trembling And Agag said, Truly the pain of death is passed away.
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into Dagon's house, tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
And when he had made an end of offering the tribute, he sent away the people that bare the tribute.
And the Philistines were afraid, saying, God is come into the camp. And groaning, they said,
And may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is of the faith of Christ Jesus, which is of God, justice in faith:
And the king said, Inquire, I pray thee, thou whose son this young man is.
Therefore thou shalt make images of your emerods, and and images of your mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory to the God of Israel. peradventure he will let his hand from you, from thy gods, and from your land.
Saul said unto David, "Behold, my elder daughter of Saul, I will give her unto you to wife. Only be valiant for me, and fight Yahweh's battles." For Saul said, "Don't let my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him."
And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
And betimes in the morning at sun rising set upon the city. And when he shall come out against thee with his people, do to him what thou shalt be able.
Delilah said unto Samson, "Please tell me where thy great strength lies, and what ye might be bound to afflict you."
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Yahweh."
and a high priest over the house of God,
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
He ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head. And the Philistines seeing that their champion was dead, fled away.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, There is no delight to the king in dowry but in a hundred foreskins of the Philistines to be avenged on the enemies of the king;' and Saul thought to cause David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.
And when their fathers or their brethren come and make trouble, thou shalt say unto them, Give them to us as an act of grace; for we did not take them as wives for ourselves in war: and if ye yourselves had given them unto us thou hadst been the charge of the broken oath.
Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with fear and godly fear:
Now therefore this blessing which thy handmaid had brought unto my lord but it is given to the young men that went up and down at the feet of my lord.
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Persuade him, and see in what his great strength is and with what we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to prevail against him; and we will each give thee eleven hundred pieces of silver.
But, for all this, ye have forsaken me, and have been servants unto other gods: so I will be thy salvation no more.
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna; What manner of men were they that ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; each one been the sons of a king.
So he took them into his house and gave the asses food; and wash their feet they did eat and drink.
And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, the Lord be between thee and me for ever.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and they also were gathered together to follow him: and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house is sound; that I may lean upon them.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David: and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a cellar, and hide thyself:
But if I say thus unto the youth; Behold, the arrows are beyond thee,go thy way; for Jehovah sendeth thee away.
And when David knew that Saul devised mischief against him, he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod.
And they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they have forgotten their God, and served the Baalim and Astaroth.
Swear unto me of Jehovah, that thou wilt not destroy my seed after me, nor take away my name from the house of my father.
The three eldest sons of Jesse had gone and followed Saul to the battle. and the name of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, his second first-born was Abinadab, and the third was Shammah.
And when they were by Jebus, the day was far all spent; and the servant said unto his master, "Please come and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusites, and abide in it."
And they have been many priests, because of being hindered from continuing into the pit;
and David waxed and returning from Saul, to feed the flock of his father at Beth-lehem.
They commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, "Go and lie in wait in the vineyards,
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; and Israel was afraid.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art become old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now appoint us a king to judge us, as all the nations.
Ye yourselves also know, ye Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no assembly yet divided with me in the matter of giving and receiving but thou only.
Behold, here is my daughter, a virgin, and his concubine: I will send them out for you to take them and do with them whatsoever ye will. But do no such thing of shame to this man.
And when all the men of Israel saw the man, they fled from his presence and were sore afraid.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and the Ashtoreths.
All the saints salute thee, and specially they of Caesar's household.
He ran to Eli, and said, "Here I am, for ye called me." And he said, "I didn't call. lie down again." And he went and lay down.
The lad went, and David arose from the side of the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David behaved themselves proudly.
And they found Adonibezec in Bezec, and fought against him, and they smote the Canaanite, and the Pherezite.
Then said they, "You have not gained over us us or oppressed us, and ye have not wrongfully exacted aught of the hand of anyone."
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into Dagon's house, steps on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
So all the people went to Gilgal, and they made Saul king there before Jehovah in Gilgal. They sacrificed peace-offerings there before Jehovah: Therefore Saul rejoiced there greatly and all the men of Israel.
And Ehud, had escaped while they lingered; and passed beyond the graven images, and escaped alone to Seirah.
and Sihon would not trusted Israel passage through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people, and they encamped in Jahaz; and fight with Israel;
how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish unto God, cleanse our consciences. from dead works to serve the living God?
When Jehovah sent you in the way, he said unto you, 'Go! Thou shalt utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and thou shalt make war against them until thou hast destroyed them.'
"Then the hoofs of the horse beat aloud, because of galloping, noise of his stallions.
and, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field, and Saul said, What have I to the people, that they weep?' and they told him the words of the men of Jabesh,
Who were seven hundred mighty men fought against the left hand as well as with the right: and slinging stones so sure that they could struck even a hair, and not miss by the stone's going on either side.
For yet a little while, and he that shall come shall come, and will not delay.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; so that Sisera, alighted off his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
for the coming in the violence the seventy sons for. and of their blood to lay upon Abimelech their brother, that slew them, and on the masters of Shechem, that strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David in Naioth in Ramah.'
And if it cometh to pass, that the name of Jonathan is cut off from the family of David, Jehovah will make David debtor.
And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were mighty men of valor.
For behold him that hath borne such gainsaying of sinners against himself, that ye don't be weary, and faint in your souls.
And Micaiah said unto him, "From where do ye come?" And he said unto him, "I am a Levite from Beth-lehem in Judah; I go to sojourn, whithersoever I can find a place."
And they set up to themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gersam the son of Moses, he and his sons were priests in the tribe of Dan, until the day of their captivity.
And he stood and cried unto the flocks of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set thy battle in My dove, am not I the Philistine, and ye servants of Saul? choose you a man, and let him come down to me.
The woman bare a son, and she called him Samson; the lad waxed big, and Jehovah blessed him.
And Samuel told the people the law of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah: and Samuel sent away all the people, every one to his own house.
For every house is built by some, man: but he that created all things, is God.
So David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thy house, see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person.
So David took the spear and the vessel of water from Saul's head; and they escaped without any man seeing them, or a good their coming, or awaking; for they were all sleeping for a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
So they drew up their army against Benjamin the third time, as they had done the first and second.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of the church will I praise thee.
Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and saying, Send me David thy son, who is in the pastures;
And it answered them, If indeed ye mean to make me king, come ye and rest under my shade; yea, but if thou mean it not, let fire come out from feel the and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised up a deliverer for the children of Israel that delivered them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Let nothing be done through contention, neither by vain glory: but in humility, let each esteem others better than themselves:
And as for the matter whereof ye and I spake, behold, Jehovah is between me and thee forever."
have I lack of madmen, that ye have brought this one to be wroth in my presence? shall this come into my house?
for a disannulling indeed cometh of the commandment went before because of its weakness, and unprofitableness,
But if ye are not able to declare it unto me, ye shall give me thirty linen garments and thirty festival garments." They said therefore unto him, "Tell your riddle; let us hear it."
Yahweh's angel came, and sat under the oak which was in Ophrah, that pertained to Joash the Abiezrite. his son Gideon was beating out wheat in the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites:
"It grieveth me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not done my commandments." Samuel was wroth; and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
After this he fell in love with a woman in the valley of the Sorek, and her name was Delilah.
To whom then did he swear they would not enter into his rest, except those that were disobedient?
God chose new princes, then war was at the gates; a shield or a spear was not seen among forty thousand in Israel.
only let thy way of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, that, whether I come and see you or am absent, to hear of your state, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul striving for the faith of the Good News;
And he brought down the people unto the water; and Jehovah said unto Gideon, "Everyone that bosom of the water with his tongue, like a dog laps, thou shalt set him by himself; likewise every one that falleth down upon his knees to drink."
And there was no lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything that they had taken unto them, David recovered all.
whither a forerunner for us entered even Jesus, after the order of Melchisedek chief priest having become for ever.
Every one that was in distress, every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him; and he became captain over them. And there were with him about four hundred men.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
Let us hold fast the confession in the of our faith apart from wavering; (for he is faithful that promised;)
Now Haber the Cinite had some time before departed from the rest of the Cinites his brethren the sons of Hobab, the near kinsman of Moses: and had pitched his tent unto the valley which is called Sellnim, and was near Cedes.
Then shalt thou be that shouteth by reason of thy king whom thou hast taken for yourselves: but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
Therefore Saul said, Come hither, and give me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he made a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And the two wives of David are carried captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite;
Therefore we also having so great a cloud of witnesses set round about us, every weight having put off, and the discernment assaulting sin, through patience may we run the matter that is set before us,
for the law shall appoint men chief priests, having weakness, but the word of the oath that after the law the Son shall be had in having been perfected.
And he said unto him, We are on our way from Beth-lehem-judah to the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim; I came from thence and went to Beth-lehem-judah: now I am on my way back unto my house, but no man will bring me into his house.
and in this again, If they shall enter into my rest.
And far from me be this sin against Jehovah, that I should cease to pray for you, and I will teach you the good and right way.
And again, when he is sending his only begotten Son into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
But congealed food is for men fullgrown, even for them whose minds are corrected by use to see what is good and what is evil.
And the children of Israel went forward against the children of Benjamin the second day.
For men indeed swear by a greater, and with them the oath is a term to all contend, as making matters sure.
David's men said unto him, "Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, 'Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do to him as it shall seem good to you.'" Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe secretly.
all the valiant men rose up and went all night and took the dead body of Saul and the dead bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
And the priest delivered him holy it; for there was no bread there but the shew-loaves that were taken from before Jehovah, to put on hot bread in the day when they were taken away.
Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mount: and David hasted to get away for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men to take them.
While Saul was yet speaking unto the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines increased more and more, so Saul said unto the priest, "Withdraw your hand!"
The children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up unto Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, "Tell us, how did this evil deal occur?"
I appeal unto Euodia and I appeal unto Syntyche to be in covenant in the Lord.
For our commonwealth is in heaven, from which also we wait for a saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ,
But into the second, the high priest alone, once a old: not without blood, which he offereth for his own, and the people's error:
And she said unto him, How dost thou say, I have loved thee, and thy heart is not with me? these three times thou hast played upon me, and hast not tell me wherein thy great power .'
For our commonwealth is in heaven, whence also a Saviour, we wait for the Lord Jesus Christ.
The lad therefore came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot: and Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Behold, the arrow is there further beyond thee.
And thou shalt hear what they cry; and afterward shall thy hands be strengthened to go down unto the host. And he went down with Phurah his servant without the armed men that were in the host.
Then said Saul unto him, "Why didst thou conspired against me, ye and the son of Jesse, when thou gavest to him bread and a sword, and by man careth of God for him that he might arise against me to ambush me as hath been done this day?"
And Moab was humbled that day under the hand of Israel: and the land had rest fourscore years.
And David passed over to the other side and stood on the top of the hill afar off: great the place between them.
Now Jonathan went up upon his hands, and upon his feet, and when his armorbearer after him; and they fell before Jonathan, and when his armorbearer is that killeth after him.
Then Jonathan called out after the lad, "Quick, make speed, do not linger!" And Jonathan's servant received the arrows and came to his master.
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread; which is called the sanctuary.
And he said to David, Thou art right and I am wrong; for thou hast given me back good, but I have given you evil.
And the men of Ephraim say unto him, What is this thing that thou hast done unto us that he should not call for us, when thou didst go to fight with Midian?' and they strive with him severely;
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and cast out me out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in trouble?
For thou art not come to the mountain that might be handled, and a flaming fire, and a whirlwind, and darkness, and tempest,
Now Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go forth into the field. And when they were both of them gone out into the field,
And the words were heard that David spake, and they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Then Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon: and it shall be seen that ye are not present, for there shall be no one in thy seat:
And he said unto her, Stand at the door of the tent, and if he that cometh and saith unto you, Is there any man here, say, No.
And unto the church of the first-born, who are written in the heavens, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous perfected;
So he gave the silver back to his mother. And his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them unto a metal-worker who made a graven image and a molten image from them: and it was in the house of Micah.
And Deborah said unto Barak, "Get up. This is the day that Jehovah hath given Sisera, into your hand. Hath Jehovah not gone out before you?" So Barak went out from mount Tabor with ten thousand men following him.
`Afterwards thou shalt come unto the hill of God, where the garrison of the Philistines it, and it came to pass, when thy coming in thither to the city, that thou hast met a band of prophets coming down from the high place, and before them psaltery, and tabret and the pipe, and harp, And they are prophesying;
And the children of Israel set liers-in-wait round about the city of Gibeah.
may we draw near with a perfect heart, in full assurance of faith, having the hearts sprinkled from the evil conscience, and having the bathe himself with pure water;
Because thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and there shall no razor touch his head; for he shall be a Nazirite of God, from his a babe and from his mother's womb, and he is about to deliver Israel from the hand of the Philistines.
But if ye are not able to give me the answer, then thou shalt have to give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Put thy hard question and let us see what it is.
and he called to the people and to Abner the son of Ner, David said, Have ye no answer to give, Abner? Then Abner said, Who is that crying out unto the king?
And he came to the encampments by the way, where was a cave, and Saul went in to cover his feet: and David and his men remained in the uttermost parts of the cave.
Then Gideon went in and prepared a kid, and with an ephah of meal, he made unleavened cakes: he put the food in a basket and the pottage, in which it had been boiled he put in a pot, and he took it out to him under the oak and gave it unto him there.
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah that he had sent him.
And David said unto him, Dost thou bring me down unto this troop?' And he said, Swear unto me of God thou shalt not put me to death, neither shalt thou shut me up into the hand of my lord and I bring thee down unto this troop.'
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us go on unto one of these places, stopped for the night in Gibeah or Ramah:
And Jehovah spake again to call again Samuel, and Samuel rose up, and went unto Eli, and said, Here am I, for thou hast called for me;' and he said, I have not called, my son, turn back, lie down.'
Now I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of the exhortation, for also through few words I have written unto you.
And there was the appointed sign unto the men of Israel with the ambush their cause to go up a great roll of smoke from the city.
And the priest said, "Behold, the sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom ye slew in the valley of Elah, is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If ye would like to take that, take it; for there is no other save that here." David said, "There is none like that. Give it to me."
Then said Saul unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites: will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, and make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds;
Because thou didst not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and didst not execute his fierce anger upon Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing to thee this day.
Then the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish answered and said unto their brethren, "Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten teacher Now therefore consider what thou hast to do."
And he said unto them, I desire one request of you: Give me the earlets of your spoils. For the Ismaelites were wont to wear golden earlets.
For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ.
And when David's servants came to Carmel, to Abigal they said unto her, David hath sent us unto you to take you to him to be his wife.
And when the woman saw Samuel, and cried with a loud voice, and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me, and thou Saul?'
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, took it, he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
Now at the time that Saul saw David went out against the Philistines, he said unto Abner the captain of the army; Of what family is this young man descended, Abner? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I know not.
Therefore he was duty to be made like his brethren in all respects, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the things while he told God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, or what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law of the king?
And it came to pass, when the judge died, that they turned back, and corrupted themselves, more than their fathers, after other gods to serve them, and to worship them, they ceased not from their own doings, nor of their stubborn way.
Now Jehovah had apprised Samuel one day before Saul came, saying,
And Jephthah said unto them, "I and my people were betrothed in great an agony with the children of Ammon; I called you, and ye did not deliver me out of their hand.
and they possessed all the border of the Amorite from the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, and unto the Jordan.
And afterward David was full of regret for to cut off Saul's skirt.
And if ye are besides chastening, of which are all become partakers, then bastards are ye, and not sons.
And the people said unto Samuel: Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? Bring the men and we will kill them.
Her husband arose, and went after her to speak kindly unto her, to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses. She brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
Then the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened bread, and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread. And the angel of Jehovah went forth out of his sight.
And he said unto them, I am witness Jehovah against you: and a witness His anointed this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand;' And they said, An witness.'
I would go out after it and smite it down, and deliver the sheep from her mouth. If it rose against me, I would lay hold it by the beard and smite it down and kill it.
And had made the women and all that were there, small and great, captivity; they had not put any of them to death, but had brought them all away.
And Saul came to the city of the Amalekites, and set an ambush in the valley.
Thou shalt not take thy servant to be a worthless woman, for my words are come from my hid sorrow and all manner of sickness.
And Samson said, With the jaw through of an ass, a heap, two heaps, With the jaw through of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubim, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Samuel saw Saul no more until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And I will have mercy on their iniquity, and I will not keep their sins in mind.
Gaal went out to meet the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech;
according as it is righteous for me to consider this in behalf of you all, because of my having you in the heart, both in my bonds; and the defence and would be confirmed. the gospel, all of you being partakers with me of grace.
again he will border a certain day, `To-day,' after that David saying, after it, time,) as it was said, `To-day, if his voice ye may hear, ye may not harden thy hearts,'
For we who have believed do enter into that rest, even as he hath said, "As I sware in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest"; although the works were made an end of from the foundation of the world.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter: thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I cannot go back.
They shall say, Peace be with thee, and will give thee two cakes of bread, which ye shall take of them.
The bows of the mighty men are broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strength.
And they asked him, Command therefore Scibboleth, (which is by interpretation, The ear of grain. But he answered and said, Sibboleth, is not able to utter the ears of grain by the same letter. Then immediately they took him, and slew him in the very passage of the Jordan; and there fell at that time of Ephraim two and forty thousand.
Now the people of Beth-shemesh were reaping the wheat harvest in the valley. And they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and they were glad to see it.
And Saul said, God do so to me, and on still more: for dying thou shalt die, O Jonathan;
if anyhow I may attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
And so patiently enduring he obtained promise.
And in the morning the man arose, and opened the door that he might end the way, and behold his concubine lay before the door with her hands spread in the threshold.
and took a young man of the men of Succoth, and asketh him, and he writeth unto him the heads of Succoth, and the elders even seventy and seven men.
That the violence done to the threescore and ten sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, which slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, which aided him in the killing of his brethren.
If indeed then perfection were by the Levites, priesthood, for the people had their law given unto them in connexion with *it*, what further need [was there] yet that a different priest should arise according to the ordinance of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
For if this had been possible, would there not have been an end of those offerings, because the worshippers would have been made utterly clean and would have been no more in respect of sins?
But in those sacrifices there is a yearly sign of sins.
And the people came to the camp, and the elders of Israel say, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us this day before the Philistines? we take unto us from Shiloh the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and it came into the midst of us, and he will save us out of the hand of our enemies.'
And Manoah said, When thy words then come to pass, what shall be the child's manner and his doing?
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou walkest by thy way.
Yahweh's angel said unto Manoah, "Though ye hinder me, I won't eat your bread. If thou wilt prepare a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it to Yahweh." For Manoah didn't know that he was Yahweh's angel.
And Gaal spake again, and said, Behold there come people down by the midst of the land, and another company come along by the plain of Meonenim.
And Anna said, I pray thee, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am that woman that stood before thee here praying unto Jehovah.
Saul went on the one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other side of the mount. David was hastening, to get away from Saul, while Saul and his men were closed in on David and his men to take them.
And without faith it is not possible to be well-pleasing unto him, for it is necessary for whosoever cometh to God to believest that God is and that he is a rewarder of all them that make a grave, search for him.
and she maketh him sleep on her knees, and called for a man, and shaved the seven locks of his head, and began to afflict him, and his power take away from off him;
And David and his men went to Keilah, and warred against the Philistines, and leadeth away their cattle, and smote them with a great smiting, and David saveth the inhabitants of Keilah.
And this is an image of the present season: when the offerings which are given are not able to make the heart of the worshipper utterly clean,
And faith is of things hoped for the confidence of matters not seen a reproof,
And when Gedeon was come to the Jordan, he passed over it with the three hundred men, that were with him, that were so weary that they could not pursue after them that fled.
For he looked for a city that hath foundations; whose build and maker is God.
But the angel of Jehovah did no more appear unto Manoah and to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And all the men of Shechem were gathered together, and all the families of the city of Mello: and they went and made Abimelech king by the oak that stood in Shechem.
And they went forth into the field, desolation the vineyards, and stamped the grapes: and singing and dancing they went into the house of their gods, and in their feasts, and cups they cursed Abimelech;
Out of Ephraim those whose root was in Amalek: After thee was Benjamin among thy peoples. Out of Machir came down governors, And out of Zebulun they that handle the staff of the governor.
The Lord killeth, and maketh alive: he brought down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
For, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and there shall no razor come upon his head: for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep, our Lord Jesus Christ, in the blood of the everlasting covenant,
and ye have forgotten the exhortation that speaketh fully with you as with sons, My son, be not despiseth chastening of Jehovah, nor be faint, being reproved by him;
Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Therefore Saul said unto David, "You shall this day be my son-in-law a second time."
Jehovah, the God of Israel, delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them. So Israel took all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of the land.
Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines; therefore they called that place Selahammahlekoth.
Because I will be merciful unto their iniquities, and their sins I will remember no more.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote of them thirty men, and took their spoil, and gave the changes of garments unto them that expounded the riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
But the men would not hearken unto him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and abuse her all the night until the morning; and let her go when the morning-dawn arose.
whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, that think about earthly things.
The wise among her princesses have answered, Yea, she returneth answer within herself,
And what shall I more say? for the time would faint me to tell of Gideoni, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also, and Shemuel, and of the prophets:
These all died in faith, not having received the promises; but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims upon the earth.
Then there was terror in the camp, in the open field, and among all the host of the garrison. Even the raiders trembled, The earth shook and it became a very great Egyptians.
And it was known unto Saul that Jehovah was with David; and he was loved of all Israel.
The three eldest sons of Jesse had gone after Saul unto the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
And when they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man, the Levites) and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what effectest thou in this man? and what hast thou here?
He also stripped off his clothes, and prophesied before Samuel. He lay naked all that day, and all night. Wherefore they say, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
For I am certain of this very thing, that he through whom the good work was kindled in thou shalt make it complete until the day of Jesus Christ:
and Saul addeth to be afraid of the presence of David yet; and Saul is an enemy with David all the days.
And after Abimelech there arose to defend Israel Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar: and he dwelt in Shamir in the hill-country of Ephraim.
Therefore Saul knew David's voice and said, "Is this thy voice, my son David?" And David said, "It is my voice, my lord the king."
And Saul's servants spake those words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it unto you a light thing to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, And lightly to be accounted of?
For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins:
The men did so, and took two milk kine, and bound them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home;
And Micaiah said unto him, dwell with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver, after the year, and a suit of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in.
Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
And as they have done from the first, from the day that I brought them forth out of Egypt unto this day, turning away from me and served other gods, so now who sacrificed in like manner unto you.
So then, rise up early in the morning, thou and thy lord's servants, who came with thee: when thou rose up early in the morning, and it is light enough for you, leave.
Go, I pray you, prepare yet again, and know and see his place where his hold is and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he deal very subtilly.
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble (for the people were distressed), then the people hid themselves in the caves in thickets, in rocks, in sepulchres, and in destructions.
And it came to pass at the coming in of the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto the camp, that all Israel shout with a loud shout, and the earth is moved.
And when his armorbearer saw this, that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword and died with him.
Her father said, "I indeed thought that ye hate her, so I gave her to your mate. Is not her younger sister, be red take her instead." Oh, she be?
And Saul and all the people that were with him were called together, and they came unto the battle; and behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, a very great confusion.
Now the Philistines rose their hosts together for war, and came together at Soco in the land of Judah, and encamped in Ephes-dammim. between Soco and Azekah,
And Samuel said unto Saul: I will not return with thee, because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have considered what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
Then Hannah rose up after eating and drinking at Shiloh. (Now Eli the priest was sitting on his seat by the doorpost of the temple of Yahweh.)
And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land.
And she bare a son, and called his name Samson. And the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
The things which ye learned: received, heard, and saw in me: do these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
Now Jonathan stripped himself of the coat wherewith he was clothed upon, and gave it to David, and the rest of his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same ensample of disobedience.
And after a time he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and, behold, there was a swarms of bees and honey in the carcass of the lion.
and Samson's wife became his companion's, that his friend.
Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And the Lord said, He will come down.
He raiseth up the poor from the dust. From the fir-wood, heap he taketh up the needy, To cause them to sit with noble people and to cause them to inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth belong unto Jehovah, and he hath set the inhabited world upon them.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz, and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's mother's brother.
Let thy gentleness be known of all men. The Lord near.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Ceila, and they rob the barns;
Swear now therefore unto me in the Lord, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And the ambush tarried with her in an inner chamber, and she said unto him, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and he breaketh the withs as a thread of tow is broken in its smelleth fire, and his power was known.
And Saul thought, "I will give her unto him, that she may be a snare for him and the hand of the Philistines may be against him." So Saul said unto David, "For a second time thou canst become my son-in-law today."
And she said, "I will surely go with you. nevertheless the journey that ye take won't be for your honor; for Jehovah will sell Sisera, into a woman's hand." Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah; and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
And they had come to the land of Zuph when Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father give up the asses, and be anxious concerning us.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me: Jehovah the Judge be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And they arose and came to the house of God, that is, to Shiloh, and they took counsel God, and said, Who shall be in our army the first to go to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah answered them, Let Judah be your leader.
And his lord said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.
And Eliab, his eldest brother's heard while he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou descended? and with whom hast thou left them few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the stubbornness of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh Gilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, "Make a covenant with us, and we will serve you."
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her take heed;
And he said unto them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed is witness against you this day, that ye have not found ought in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.
And Jehovah said unto him, I will surely be with thee; and thou shalt smite Midian as one man.
having confidence of this very purpose, that he that hath begun in you a good work will perfect it unto Jesus Christ's day:
And David's young men came, and spake unto Nabal according to all these words in the name of David, and ceased.
And he said, They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. As Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay thee.
Then David came to the two hundred men that had been too wearied herself with to follow David; they had left them behind at the brook Besor. They went out to meet David and to meet the people that were with him. And David came near with the people and asked them how they wrought;
Now Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that assembled at the door of the tent of meeting.
Moreover his mother made him a little coat, and brought it to him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
And Jehovah cometh, and set himself, and called as time by time, `Samuel, Samuel;' and Samuel said, Speak for thy servant if hearing.'
But we have straw and food for our asses, as well as bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us: we have no need of nothing.
Therefore Saul was kindled against Jonathan said unto him, Thou son of a woman that is the ravisher of a man, do I not know that thou lovest the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and also the confusion of thy fierce mother?
Then said Saul unto Jonathan, tell me, what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him and said, With the end of the staff which is in my hand I tasted a little honey, behold, I must die:
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
And there came forth a man baseborn from the camp of the Philistines named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span;
And by how much [it was] not without the swear of an oath,
And he divided the three hundred men three detachments, and put trumpets into the hand of all of them, and empty pitchers, and lamps within the flagons.
If it goeth by the land of Israel to Beth-shemesh, then this great evil is his work; but if not, then we know that the evil was not he have executed, but was the working casting lots;
And they took as wives the daughters of these nations and gave their daughters unto their sons, and became servants to their gods.
And the people take the provision in their hand, and their trumpets, and all the men of Israel he hath sent away, every man unto his booths; and on the three hundred men he hath kept stronghold, and the camp of Midian hath been by him at the nether part of the valley.
So when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave unto him another heart, and all these things came to pass that day.
Warfare was sore against the Philistines all the days of Saul. And whenever Saul saw any man who was the mighty man or any brave man, he raise a levy him into his service.
That by two immutable things, in which it was not possible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, that have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us:
that this shall be no stumblingblock to thee, nor trespass of heart for my lord, either that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself. And when Jehovah shall deal well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
Then all the corrupt and unprofitable men among the men that went with David reacted and said, "Because they did not go with us, we will not give them anything of the spoil which we recovered, except each man may take his own wife and children. They shall take them, and go!"
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb as Moses said, and he drove out the three sons of Anak from thence.
The same night the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go down now against their host, for I have delivered them into your hand.
He had thirty sons. And he gave his thirty daughters away in marriage outside his family and brought in without thirty young women for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
And the men of Israel were called together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after Midian.
And when they were on the ascent of the city; and they saw some virgins going out to draw water and said unto them, Is the seer here?
to whom also Abraham divided the tenth part of everything, the first place, his name is, being interpreted, "king of righteousness," and then also "king of Salem," that is, "king of peace";
concerning whom we have much speech and of acacia interpretation to say, since ye are become dull of hearing,
While it is said, To-day if ye shall hear his voice, be ye not your hearts in that provocation.
Now every high priest is given power to take unto God the things that are given and to make offerings: so that he must this man, like them, to have somewhat for an oblation.
and also unto their judges they would not hear, but play the harlot after other gods, and worshipped them: they have turned aside out of the way which their fathers walked to hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah they have not done so.
For ye have need of patience that, being done the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
So David received from her hand that which she had brought him. And he said unto her, "Go up in peace unto thy house. Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and hast granted your request."
And being perfected; he became a God of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;
Why then do ye harden your hearts the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? And when he had wrought wonderfully among them, didn't they let the people go, and they gone?
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no flesh the second day of the month, for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be put to shame, and in all liberty, as always, also now Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether through life or through death,
And they took the victuals of the people in their hand, and their trumpets; and all the men of Israel he sent away, every man to his tent, but retained the three hundred men. Now the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
And it fell on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, "Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side." But he didn't tell his father.
And Barak said unto her, If thou go with me, and I have gone; and if thou shalt not go with me, I do not go;'
And Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
Now therefore, what is there under thy hand? five loaves give into my hand, or that which is found.'
But David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred tarried behind them; that were so faint that they couldn't go over the brook Besor.
And they returned to their brethren in Zorah, and Eshtaol, that asked them that which they had done? to whom they said,
Jehovah therefore shall be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see; and plead my cause, and do me justice [in delivering me] out of thy hand.
And he smote among the men of Beth-shemesh, for they looked into the ark of Jehovah, Yea, he smote among the people seventy men fifty chief men; and the people mourn, because Jehovah smote among the people with a great slaughter.
And Saul's servants said these things unto David. And David said, Thinkest thou a small thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, of no great name?
Wherefore, beloved, as thou hast at all times done that which I say, not only when I am present, but now much more when I am not with you, give yourselves unto working out thy salvation with fear in your hearts:
Behold, ye children of Israel, all of you, give hither thy counsel and counsel."
Then Jehovah sent sudden fear on Benjamin before Israel; and that day the children of Israel put to death five and twenty thousand a hundred men of Benjamin, all of them swordsmen.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all the chariots, and all the host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; and Sisera, alighted from chariot, and fled on foot:
for indeed the gospel came to us, even as he had done unto them; but the ears of the word did them no good, because they were not be joined in faith with the true hearers.
And the land had rest forty years, and Othniel the son of Kenaz: died.
And when they that remained of Benjamin saw this, they fled into the wilderness and made toward the rock that is called Remmon. In that flight, also as they were straggling and going diverse ways, they slew of them five thousand men. And as they went space, they still pursued them, and slew also other two thousand.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of the assembly will I sing thy praises.
But his wife said unto him, "If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he wouldn't have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hand, and he wouldn't he hast showed us all these things, nor would he have told us such things as these at this time."
Now faith is substantiating of things hoped for, conviction of things not seen.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him, thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.
For God is my witness, how my love goeth forth unto you all in the tender mercy of Christ Jesus.
and the land resteth forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz, died,
And Manasseh hath not traded Beth-shean and its towns, and Taanach and its towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, and the inhabitants of Iblaim and its towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns, and the Canaanites would dwell in that land;
And Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
Now therefore, cry in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
Hannah prayed, and said, "My heart restore, in Jehovah, my horn shall be exalted in Jehovah; My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies, because I rejoice in thy salvation.
Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpah;
For thy servant have both killed a lion, and a bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine, shall be also as one of them. I will go now, and take away the reproach of the people; for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, who hath durst to curse the army of the living God?
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and given it to thy neighbor that is better than thou;
Then she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And awaked out of his sleep, he said, I will go out as at the other times, shaking myself free. But he was not that Jehovah had gone from him.
Gideon had seventy sons conceived from his body, for he had many wives.
And when he had set the torches on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burned up both the shocks and the standing grain, and also the olive Asherim,
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest were with Saul's host.
Seeing that we may not give them our daughters as women? For the children of Israel had taken an oath, saying, Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
and the haft also went in after the sickle; and the fat closed upon the blade; for he drew not the sword out of his belly, and it came out between the legs:
So David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thy house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person.
The brook Kishion swept them away, The brook most ancient the brook Kishon; Thou shalt tread down strength, O my soul.
And Saul and the men of Israel came together and encamped in the valley of Elah, and put the battle in array against the Philistines.
and Benjamin returned at that time, and they gave unto them the women whom they have kept alive of the women of Jabesh-gilead, and they have not found for [all of] them so.
The liers-in-wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah: then the liers-in-wait spread forth, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
him, verily I hope to send, when I may see through my affairs, straightway:
A man that disregards Moses' law dieth without compassion on the word of two or three witnesses.
Now when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David at Keilah, he went down with an ephod in his hand.
Both of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, "Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they had hidden themselves!"
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he possessed the hill-country, for he drove not out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines came out, meeting him with loud crieth, And then the Spirit of Jehovah came rushing upon him, and the cords on his branches became like grass which hath been burned with fire, and the bands came falling off his hands.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah then shall ye provoked the mouth of Jehovah, and the hand of Jehovah shall be against thee, and against thy fathers.
Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, abode in Geba of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
And when David and his men came to the city, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were taken captive.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamp against Gibeah,
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; and hold such in reputation:
And Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gilead, ye are outcasts of Ephraim in the midst of Ephraim, in the midst of Manasseh.
And there was a man at Maon, whose business was at Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he was fleece his sheep at Carmel.
And his father went down to the woman, and Samson made there a feast; for so used the young men to do.
Then his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy kindred or among all my people, that thou hast to go for your wife unto the Philistines, that are without circumcision? But Samson said unto his father, Get her for me, for she is acceptable to me.
Ye shall not cast away therefore your boldness, which hath great recompense of reward,
Then David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tidings hath been given unto thy servant that it is Saul's purpose to come to Keilah and destroy cities because of me.
and Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpeh, and I pray for you unto Jehovah.'
then he hath said, "Behold, I am come to do thy will." He taketh away the first that he may establish the second,
And the Philistines took God's ark, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And he said unto his men, "Yahweh forbid that I should do this thing unto my lord, Yahweh's anointed, to stretch out my hand upon him, seeing he is Yahweh's anointed."
Then Samuel went up from Gilgal and the rest of the people went up after Saul against the men of war, and they came from Gilgal to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: and Saul took the number of the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
Be not cares; but in everything with prayer and praise put thy prayer unto God.
Neither by the blood of goats, or of bullocks, but by his own blood, entered once into the most holy things, having obtained eternal redemption.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah: that strengthened against them Eglon, king of Moab: because they did that which was evil in his sight.
And the men that did not die were smote with the emerods, and so that the cry of the city for help went up to heaven.
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the cattle and the chariot before them.
And there was none to save; for it was far from Sidon, and they had nothing to do with man; and it in the valley that is by Beth-rehob. And they built the city and dwelt therein.
And David said to Abishai, "Don't destroy; for who can stretch out his hand against Yahweh's anointed, and be guiltless?"
She is to have nothing which cometh from the vine for her food, and let her take no wine nor strong drink, or anything that is unclean; let her observe to do all that I have given her command thee.
And the lords of the Philistines didst march with their hundreds and their thousands, but David and his men were in the hinder part with Achis.
He will take the best of thy fields and your vineyards and your olive-trees and will give them to his servants.
So the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down unto Gaza, and bound him with bands of brass, put him to work grinding in the prison.
Samson's wife wept before him, and said, "You just hate me, and don't love me. You've told a dark saying unto the children of my people, and haven't told it to me." And he said unto her, "Behold, I haven't told my father and my mother, so why should I tell you?"
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell on his sword and died with him.
Then they said unto him, Say now Shibboleth; and he said Sibboleth, and was not able to say it ought; then they took him, and put him to death at the crossing-places of the Jordan; and at that time forty and two thousand midst of Ephraim were put to death.
But a certain terrible seeking of judgment and fiery indignation, and it shall devour the adversaries.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle, which is called the most holy things:
David therefore sent forth spies, and understood that Saul was come in very deed when
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came unto me, and his appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; I did not ask him from where he came, and he did not tell me his name.
and he sent messengers to Abimelech in subtlety, to the intent saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren are come to Shechem, and behold, they shut up the city against thee;
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity, that this man have somewhat also to offer.
And David fled from Naioth in Ramah and came to Jonathan and said, What have I done? What is my iniquity, or my sin against thy father that he is seeking to take my life?
Oh that this people were in my command! Then I would remove Abimelech, and I would have said, 'Increase thine army and come out!'"
And he called unto him Zebulun and Nepbtali, and went up with ten thousand valiant men, having Debbora in his company.
And Achish said, Whither have ye made a way to-day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites.
Jephthah said unto them, "I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called upon thee; thou didn't save me out of their hand.
for he was yet in the loins of the father when Melchisedek met him.
Then the Philistines seized upon him, and straightway pulled out his eyes, and bound him in fetters, to Gaza, and shut him up in prison made him grind.
And again he saith, I will put my faith in him. And again, Behold, I am here, and the children whom God hath given to me.
And the Levites took down the ark of God, and the little cruse that was at the side of it, wherein were the vessels of gold, and they put them upon the great stone. The men also of Bethsames offered burnt-offerings and they offered a sacrifice that day to Jehovah.
And when Saul perceived that Jehovah was with David and his own daughter Michal loved him,
And David recovered all that the Amalekite had taken. And David recovered his two wives.
and he thirsteth exceedingly, and called upon Jehovah; and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great salvation; And now, I die with thirst, and are fallen into the hand of the uncircumcised.'
So Samuel did that which Jehovah spoken. He came to Beth-lehem, and the elders of the city shall come trembling to meet him; and they said, "Have ye come in peace?"
Woe unto us! that shall deliver us out of the hand of these honorable gods? these the gods that are smiting the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Now therefore deliver up the men, the base fellows, that are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away the evil from Israel." But Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest had followed Saul.
And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thy hands:
Then Ehud, put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right buttocks, and thrust it into his belly;
And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, And on this condition will I make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all thy right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
at the end of the days he hath spoken unto us by a Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he made the world,
When thou art departed from me to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy father hath left the charge of the asses, and sorroweth for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest; But he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.
Then Jonathan sent for David and gave him word of all these things. Now Jonathan took David to Saul, that kept him by his side as of old.
Of the angels he saith, "Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire."
And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he awaked out of his sleep, and rent out the pin of a beam, the web.
And Samson said unto them, If ye thus for a certainty I will avenge me of you, and then I will cease.
And because she nagged him from day to day with her words, and pestered him, his soul waxed soul was to the point of death.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and they served the Baalim.
But Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, "On this condition I will make a league with thee; by gouging out the right eye of each one of you, and I will make it a reproach unto all Israel."
And the sons of Benjamin saw that they were put to the worse and the men of Israel give place to Benjamin, for they have trusted unto the ambush which they had set against Gibeah,
And Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel went, every man to his heritage, to take the land for themselves.
But David tarried in the wilderness in strongholds; And he abode in the mountain of the wilderness of Ziph, in a green hill. And Saul sought him always: but Jehovah delivered him not into his hand.
But the hand of Jehovah was sore upon the people of Ashdod, and he sent a pestilence upon them through all the country of in Ashdod, did
And by faith Jacob, as he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mount: and David made haste to get away from Saul; and Saul and his men sought to compass David and his men to take them.
And Eli answered and said, Go in peace, and the God of Israel shall give thy petition which thou hast asked of Him.'
On the morrow the people rose up early, and they built there an altar and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
For if the blood of goats, and bullocks, and a heifer's ashes sprinkling the defiled, sanctifieth for the pureness of the flesh,
whose voice shook the earth then, but now he hath promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens."
Jonathan said unto David, "Go in peace, because we have sworn, the two of us, an oath in the name of Jehovah, saying, "Yahweh shall be between me and thee, and between my offspring and thy seed forever." Then he arose, and left, and Jonathan went into the city.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Behold, this nation hath broken my covenant which I had made with their fathers, and hath despised to hearken unto my voice,
The Sidonians also, and Amalek and Maon oppressed you, and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And the staff of whose spear was as long as a cloth-worker's rod, and its head was made of six hundred shekels' weight of iron: and one went before him with his shield.
[And it was told] the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. And they compassed it, and laid wait for him all night at the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning light we will slay him.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
There is none holy as Jehovah, for there is no God but you: there is no Rock like our God.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under an oak which was in Ophrah, that pertaineth unto Joash the Abiezrite: and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites:
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are the young men finished?' and he said, Yet shall be left the youngest: and lo, he delighteth himself among the flock;' and Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and take him; for we will not turn round until he come in hither.'
Now Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I search my father, about time to-morrow the third and behold, good toward David, and I will not then send unto thee, and have uncovered thine ear,
Ye put all things in subjection under his feet. For in making man the ruler over all things, God did not put anything outside his authority. though we do not see all things under him now.
And the angel answered and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
Now when she came to him, he put into her moved him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted from off her ass; and Caleb said, What is it?
Now when David and his men came to Ziklag, on the third day, the Amalekite had fought against the South and on Ziklag, and had overcome Ziklag, and put it on fire;
(Now all the people of the land used to go into the forest, for there was honey upon the face of the ground.)
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah was minded our death, he would not have taken our burnt-offering and our meal-offering, or have given us such charge concerning the child.
Now therefore thy king is here, whom thou hast chosen, and great delight, Behold, Jehovah hath given you a king.
They answered and said unto them, He is: behold, he is before you, make haste now: for he came to day into the city, for there is a sacrifice of the people to-day in the high place.
So the day following the people went out into the field. And it was told Abimelech;
He sent it to them that were in Beth-el, to them that were in Ramoth of the South, to them that were in Jattir,
as saith the parable of the elders, From the wicked went out wickedness, and my hand is not upon thee.
Now I would have you brethren, know that my degree are come to pass instead for the progress of the gospel,
but the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defence of the gospel.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord and became servants to the Baalim.
And the princes of the Philistines bring up to her seven green withs which have not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
He will appoint them to him for captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and he will appoint some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his weapons of war, and the weapons of his chariots.
And David said to Saul: Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, or a bear, and took a ram out of the midst of the flock;
In the which will, we are sanctified by the meal-offering of the body of Jesus Christ once.
Therefore Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, "As Jehovah liveth, thou shalt not be punished for this thing."
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent out for service because of them that shall inherit salvation?
And as Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were put to the worse before Israel,
And the five lords of the Philistines saw it, and returned to Ekron the same day.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men's words, saying, Behold, David sought thy hurt?
the five lords of the Philistines, all the Canaanite, the Sidonians, and the Hivite, that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath.
And they gave the city the name of Dan, after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: though the city had been named Laish at the first.
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having with him three thousand chosen men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph;
One of the servants answered and said, "Look, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite diligent in playing the psaltery, a brave man, a mighty man, prudent in speech, and well-favored. And Jehovah is with him."
And by faith Abel offered unto God a most excellent sacrifice than Cain, whereby he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being dead yet speaketh.
And Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to inquire of David and his men, in front of the rocks of the wild goats;
God, who at sundry times and in divers customs spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets,
And he said unto his wife: We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
So they sent messengers to Saul's city Gibeah, and these gave the tidings unto the people, and all the people gave themselves to weeping.
and he took the army and divided them into three divisions, and he laid an ambush in the field. And he saw the people came out from the city, and he arose against them, and killed them.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fall because of him, thy servant shall go with thee, and hath fought with this Philistine.'
Obey your leaders and submit unto them! for they keep watch over your souls as they that will give an few, so that they can do this with joy and not with groaning, for this would be unprofitable for you.
Now the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second, Abiah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in the wood.
Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse, and said, "Send me David thy son, who is with the sheep."
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth.
And the Philistine, said unto David, Am I a dog, that ye come out to me with staves? And the Philistine, curse David by all his gods.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I do anything in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Ammonites, oppressed thee; and thou cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
Thou shalt not take away thy kindness from my house for ever, when the Lord shall have rooted out the enemies of David, every one of them from the earth, may he take away Jonathan from his house, and may Jehovah require it at the hands of David's enemies.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together from the cities to Gibeah to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
But six hundred turned and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon, and they abode at the rock of Rimmon for four, months.
And he made the army and smote Amalek, and delivereth Israel out of the hand of its spoiler.
And Saul called all the people together to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
Now therefore gather up by night, thou and thy people, and keep watch in the field privily.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, gave him food, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."
Holocausts for sin also pleased not thee.
Then said Saul unto his uncle, and he told us for certain that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel had spoken, he told him not.
And Deborah said unto Barak, Arise, for this is the day in which Jehovah hath given Sisera, into thy hand; hath not Jehovah gone out before thee?' And Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even; and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
She should not eat of anything that cometh from the vine, and wine nor strong drink, or eat anything unclean; she should keep all that I commanded."
And Jerubbaal (he Gideon) arose early, and all the people that were with him, and they encamped by the fountain of Harod, and the camp of Midian shall be on the south of him, on the height of Moreh, in the valley.
As Jehovah liveth, who is the saviour of Israel, if it was done by Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. In this none of the people may make him.
Then Jonathan said, "Far be it from thee: for if I know of a certainty that my father determined evil should come upon you, would I not have told it to you?"
And his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child and near the time when she would give forth; and when she heard that the ark of God had been taken and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she travailed, came upon her suddenly and she bare unto him.
And Saul said, Bring hither to me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered up the burnt-offering.
How shall we escape if we should forsake so great salvation? which having begun to be declared by Jehovah, was confirmed unto us by them that heard him.
So that mine bonds became manifest in Christ in the whole Praetorium, and to the other places like all,
Saul smote the Amalekites, from Havilah as thou goest unto Shur that is before Egypt.
Then Achish called David, and said unto him, Surely as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight for I have found no evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords favor thee not.
For when all the commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of the calves and the goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
Now consider how great this man was, to whom even Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth out of the best spoil.
Who being the brightness of his glory, and the utter image of his soul, and upholding all things by the word of his majesty, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Honor on high:
His mother looked out at the window, and howled: and she spake from the upper chamber: Why is his chariot so long in coming back? Why are the feet of his horses so slow?
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, then Abner took him, and brought him before Saul, and the head of the Philistine, in his hand;
Though some are preaching Christ out of envy and factious, and others do it out of a good heart:
Then he called hastily unto the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me, that men say not of me, A women slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And he died, and was buried in Zebulun.
As soon as Gideon was dead, the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot following the Baalim, and made Baal Berith their god.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and the children of Ammon.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb as Moses had said, who drove out thence the three sons of Anak.
and not only while I am alive shalt thou do with me the kindness of Jehovah, and I die not,
Let love of the brethren be established.
And the men of Israel had made a turn about, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed, for they saw that evil had overtake them.
Then Eli called Samuel and said, "Samuel, my son!" And he said, "Here I am."
Therefore I was displeased with that generation, and said, 'They always err in their heart, but they didn't know my ways;'
And it came to pass at that time, that Eli lieth down in his place, and his eyes have begun to be dim he cannot see.
And the word of Jehovah came unto Samuel, saying,
There was a certain man from Ramathaim Zophim, from the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
And he shall take your fields, and your vineyards and your oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
Now therefore be careful and do no wine nor strong drink, and do not eat any unclean thing,
Now unbelieving it is impossible to please him, for the one that cometh nigh God must believe that he is and is a rewarder of them that seek him.
Here am I. witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose ass have I taken? Whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? Of whose hand have I taken a ransom to make me blind my eyes? I will restore it to you."
And Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnathah of the daughters of the Philistines.
and Jonathan called after the youth, `Speed, haste, stand not;' and Jonathan's youth gathereth the arrows, and came unto his lord.
And they said, "If thou sendest the ark of the God of Israel away, thou shalt not send him away empty, but by all means return it with a trespass-offering. Then shalt thou be healed and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not turned aside from you."
And David said to Achish, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Achish said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
Now Gideon had seventy sons, his own seed, for he had many wives.
Gideon said, "Well then, when Jehovah giveth Zebah and Zalmunna; into my hand, I will trample your flesh with the briers and thorns; of the wilderness."
One of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
For yet a very little while he that cometh shall come, and shall not delay.
And when the ark of Yahweh's covenant came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.
And when they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father leave cared for the asses, and take thought for us.
And the day came that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man bearing his armor, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines, that on the other side of this;' and to his father he hath not declared him.
I will place a fleece of wool in the threshing-floor. If there be dew upon the fleece only, and all of the ground is dry, shall I know that ye will deliver Israel by my hand, even as thou hast said."
And it was told David; "Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and rob the threshing floors."
And David's men said unto him, Even here in Judah we are full of fear: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the hosts of the Philistines?
but I have thought it necessary therefore to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow-worker and fellow-soldier, but your messenger and minister unto my want;
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he had taken his wife, and given her to his mate. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine is gone forth from Nabal, that his wife told him these things, and his heart dieth within him, and he shall be as a stone.
chose rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to have sojourning pleasure of sin;
For when God made promise unto Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself,
How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely to day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for had there not been now a much greater slaughter among the Philistines?
Now where remission of these is, there is no more oblation for sin.
And all the people went to Gilgal, and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and they sacrificed there sacrifices of peace before Jehovah. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
And David said unto him, "Will thou bring me down to this troop?" And he said, "Swear unto me of God that thou wilt not kill me, and not deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop."
Yea, he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel; thou hast seen me, and shalt rejoice, and why dost thou sin against innocent blood, to put David to death for nought?'
Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David; wherefore he came down into the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard it, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And Samuel answered Saul and said, I am the seer; go up before me into the high place, and ye shall eat with me this day, and I have sent thee away in the morning, and all that is in thy heart I declare unto thee.
And three bands of men came out from the Philistines to make an attack; one band went by the way that goeth down to Ophrah, into the land of Shual:
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor; yet what I shall choose I know not.
Say no more words sins; Let not rebellious words come out of your mouths: for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, by him acts are judged.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ. To all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the officers, and servants:
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his relief, but to them that believed not?
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give perfection;' and Jonathan and Saul are taken, and the people went out.
Then they killed a calf, and offered the young child to Heli.
And blessed be your discretion, And blessed be ye that have came upon me this day from bloodguiltiness and from delivering myself by mine own hand.
Saul answered, "Am I not a Benjamite, of the little ones of the tribes of Israel? And my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then speakest thou unto me like this?"
For every high priest taken from among men is established for men in things while he told God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins;
and being made so much better than God, as he hath by inheritance obtained a most excellent name than they.
And Saul caught up a spear to smite him. Now Jonathan understood that it was determined by his father to have slain David.
But over the Ashurites, dwelt among the Canaanite, the people of the land, without drive them out.
In the measure of my strong hope and belief that in nothing will I be put to shame; But that without fear, as always, now will Christ have glory in my body, by life or by death.
Of the teaching of baptisms, and laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strongholds at En-gedi.
And the land had rest forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz, died.
One of the same place answered, "Who is their father?" Therefore it became a proverb, "Is Saul also among the prophets?"
Behold, may ye not refuse him that is speaking, for if those did not escape who refused him that upon earth had been speak much less we that do turn away from him that from heaven,
For the law will needs men as high priests that have weakness, but a word of oath, after the law, will needs a Son, who is made perfect for ever.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them up out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
So David said unto Ahimelech the priest, "The king charged me with a matter and said unto me, 'No one shall know anything about this matter on which I send thee, wherewith I have commanded you and the servants.'" So I have ordained to meet with my servants at a certain place.
For a will is in force where there hath been death, for it is never in force while he that made it lives.
and Jehovah selleth them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who hath reigned in Hazor, and the head of his host Sisera, and he dwelt in Harosheth of the Goyim;
Where the chariots were dashed together, and the army of the enemies was choked, there let the ordinances of the Lord be rehearsed, And his favor toward the brave men of Israel: then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates, and obtained the sovereignty.
And Deborah singeth yea, the son of Abinoam Barak on that day, saying,
and blessed thy discretion, and blessed shalt thou be in that thou hast restrained me this day from coming in with blood, and to retain my hand unto myself.
And they said, What man is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpeh Lord? and, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh-gilead to the assembly.
And they said unto him, "Please ask counsel of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous."
Thou hast expounded unto me this day that ye have dealt well with me, how Jehovah delivered me into thy hand but ye did not kill me.
why shouldest thou harden your hearts like the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? Is it not even as when he dealt with them wantonly so that they sent them away, and they left side thereof?
and might set free all them that for fear of death through the whole of their life were subject to bondage.
Then the five men that had gone to spy out the country of Laish. said unto their brethren, Dost thou know that in these houses there is an ephod, and family gods and a graven image and a molten teacher So now ye see what to do.
But to thy heart, the former days in which having been enlightened, ye endured much fight of sorrows,
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the valley, and put them in a shepherd's bag which he had, even in a wallet; and his sling was in his hand; and he drew nigh unto the Philistine.
and the men that died not were put to the worse with the hemorrhoids; and the cry of the city went up unto heaven.
Then Jonathan said unto David, Whatsoever thy desire is, I will do it for you.
And that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
For behold well him that endured so great Meribah from sinners against himself, that ye be not weary, and faint in your ears.
As I have sworn in my wrath; If they shall enter into my rest.
As many, therefore, as perfect let us reckon this, and if aught ye think a different doctrine, this also shall God reveal unto you,
For Israel had put themselves in array, and the Philistines that stood against them were prepared.
And when they rose up to go away, his father-in-law, the girl's father said unto him, Now evening cometh on, so do not go this night: behold, the day is almost gone; take thy rest here and let your heart be glad, and to-morrow early, Go thy way back to thy house.
Saul's uncle said, "Please tell me what Samuel said unto you."
But now he hath attained a most excellent ministry, by as much as he is also mediator of a better covenant which hath been enacted upon better gifts falsely.
Then the woman came in, and said unto her husband, A man came unto me, and his form was like the form of a god, and with great terror; I put no question to him about where he came, and he did not give me his name;
And the Levites have taken down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer which with it, in which the vessels of gold, and place on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh have offered burnt-offerings and sacrifice sacrifices in that day unto Jehovah.
and so terrible was the appearance that Moses said, "I am terrified and trembling."
But the righteous shall live by his faith; and if he goeth again, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And again, the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: they served the Baalim, the Ashtaroth, the gods of Aram, Sidon, Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and Philistines; they forsook Jehovah, and have not serve him.
And the people, the men of Israel, strengthen themselves, and add to set the battle in array in the place where they prepared themselves on the first day.
And they called the name of that place Bochim; and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said, Wherefore then shalt thou say unto me, and Jehovah hath turned aside from thee, and is thine enemy?
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he appointed his sons to be judges to be over Israel.
And Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
And it was told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
And all Midian and Amalek and the sons of the east were gathered together, and pass over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel,
And they went out into their fields and gathered in the fruit of their vines and when the grapes had been crushed, they made a holy feast and went into the house of their gods, and over their food and drink they were cursing Abimelech;
And he said unto his men, The Lord forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the Lord's anointed, to put forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
And Saul's servants spake these words unto David privily. But David said, "Is it yet a small thing in thy sight to become the son-in-law of the king, as I am a poor And lightly esteemed man?"
Jephthah said unto the elders, "Did ye not shun me and carry me out from the house of my father? Why do ye come to me now when thou hast trouble?"
and a helmet of brass upon his head, and a scaled coat of mail he out, sitting, clothed and the weight of the coat of mail five thousand pieces of brass,
And Achish answered and said unto David, I know that thou art acceptable to me, as an angel of God; nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Saul was threatened by David yet more hail; Saul became a perpetual enemy of David.
And Jehovah said unto him, "Peace be unto thee; Don't therefore: ye shall not die."
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear, let one of the king's servants come over and fetch it.
Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
Now Eli was very old; and he heard from time to time of what his sons were do unto all Israel.
And he said, If I have found favor in thy sight, give me a sign that it is thou that speakest unto me,
But David fled from Najoth, which is in Ramatha, and came and said unto Jonathan: What have I done? what is my iniquity, and what is my sin against thy father, that he seeketh my life?
But ye have forsaken me, and served other gods; therefore I will save thee no more.
Then they put the ark of Jehovah on the wagon with the vessel holding the gold mice and the images of their tumors.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raiseth a saviour, unto the children of Israel, and he saveth them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again to my need.
And when they had heard what they are saying, thou shalt be strength to go down against the host. So he went down with his servant Purah to the outermost part of the tents of the armed men.
But Saul, knowing that the voice was David's, said, Is that thy voice, David, my son? And David said, It is my voice, O my lord, O king.
When she thrust him daily with her words, and urged him, his soul was troubled to death.
And Saul also went home to Gibeah: and there went with him a band of men, whose heart God had hip.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the stronghold.
And when David had heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath judged the cause of my reproach at the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil, and Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his head. And David sent and dealt ill with Abigal that he might take her to be his wife.
And the princes of Gilead said unto Jephte: For this cause we are now come unto thee, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them, and Israel possessed the whole land of the Amorites, who dwelt in the land.
and Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. The people didn't know that Jonathan was gone.
Also we have had the earthly fathers that chastised us, and we respected them. Will we not much rather subject ourselves to the Father of spirits and live?
The men of Israel were to make a turn about in the battle, and Benjamin had overcome and put to death about thirty of the men of Israel, and were saying, Certainly they are fall backward, before us as in the first battle.
and call the name of the city Dan, by the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel; and yet Laish the name of the city at the first.
And to them that were in Hormah, and to them that were in Chorashan, and to them that were in Athach,
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob: and they fell all of the king.
By faith, Noah, oracularly warned concerning things not yet seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his house; whereby he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which according to faith.
Because where there is a covenant, there hath to be the death of the man that made it.
David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah the brother of Joab, saying, "Who will go down with me to Saul, in the camp?" And Abishai said, "I will go down with you."
And when he had brought him, behold, they were lying spread upon all the ground, eating and drinking, and as it were keeping a feast, for all the prey, and the spoil which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
For they all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.
and to them that are in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men went about.
and therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli: the iniquity of the house of Eli is not atoned for; by sacrifice, and by offering even unto the age.'
Then Gideon said, For this cause when Jehovah hath given Zebah and Zalmunna; into my hands, I will have ye stretched on a bed of thorns of the wilderness and on sharp stems, and have thou cast as grain is crushed on a threshing-floor.
And Saul said, Bring nigh unto me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings;' and he causeth the burnt-offering unto ascend.
Then said Saul unto his uncle, and he told us plainly that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
Then Abigail went to Nabal, and, behold, he was holding a feast in his house like the feast of the king. Nabal was obtained himself, and he was very drunken, she did not tell him a thing, nothing at all, until the light of morning.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died; for he was an old man, and heavy. And he had judged Israel forty years.
And they turn aside thither, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, the house of Micah, and salute him, even
And when the trumpet soundeth in my hand, do ye also blow the trumpets on every side of the camp.
Now Jonathan gave his bow and arrows to the lad, and said unto him, Take these and go into the city.
they said unto him, "Please say Shibboleth," and if he said, "Sibboleth"because he could not pronounce it correctlythey laid hold on him, and executed him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time forty and two thousand from Ephraim fell.
And all Israel were gathered together against the city, as one man, with one mind, and one counsel;
Now these things being thus after the same manner into the first tabernacle the priests enter at all times, have performed the services;
But one in a certain place bare witness, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? Or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
and I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and shall speak of thee with my father: and see what it is; and tell thee.
And they said unto the messengers that was come, Thus shall ye say to the men of Jabesh-Gilead: To-morrow ye shall have deliverance when the sun is hot. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh-Gilead; and they were glad.
Remember those that were over you, and who gave you the word of God; seeing the end of their way of life let your faith be like theirs.
Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Accho, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob:
And he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice and goodly man, and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier man than he: from his shoulders and upward he appeared above all the people.
Swear now therefore unto me of Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
And David said to Achish, But what have I done? what hast thou seen in thy servant while I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go and rise up against them that are now that fight against my lord the king?
Now there was no iron-worker in all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, For fear the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears:
Now Jonathan again took an oath to David, because he loved him; for David was as dear unto him as his very soul.
The children of the Kenite, Moses' brother-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
And his sons walked not in his ways: but they turned aside after lucre, and took a bribe, and perverted judgment.
Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell, all these were mighty men of valor.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy eyes;' and the woman went on her way, and eateth, and her countenance hath not been for it any more.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Me did Jehovah send to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel; and now, hearken to the voice of the words of Jehovah:
Now at this present time men over whom death hath power take the tenth; but then it was taken by one of whom it is witnessed that he was alive.
And the children of Benjamin that came that day from the cities were twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, besides the people of Gibeah, numbering seven hundred of chosen men,
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, Let me now go through your land to my place.
And now, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah have moved thee against me, let him accept an meal-offering; but if the sons of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me out this day from also, joining to the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
and the sound of the trumpet, and a voice of words, which they that hear besought that a word might not be added unto them,
yea, these went unto the house of Micah, and take the graven image in the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest said unto them, What are ye doing?'
And she said, "The glory is departed from Israel; for God's ark hath been taken."
And the men of Israel go out from Mizpeh, and pursue the Philistines, and smite them unto the place of Beth-Car.
Saul said, "Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and take spoil among them until the morning; and let us not leave a man of them." And they said, "Do as is good to you." then the priest said, "Let us come near hither to God."
for our God is a devouring fire.
Then said Saul to his servant, Well said. Come, let us go. So they went unto the city where the man of God was.
Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Acco, Sidon, Ahlab, Achzib, Helbah, Aphik, or Rehob,
And the children of Benjamin went forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed to the ground of the children of Israel that day twenty and two thousand men.
and, so to speak, through Abraham, Levi also, who received tithes, hath been made to pay tithes every three days;
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and from the beginning of they went forth, and David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul, and his name was very famous.
And thou hast showed this day what good things thou hast done unto me; how Jehovah delivered me into thy hand, and thou hast not slew me.
And by faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;
Therefore as many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as innumerable as the sand which is by the sea-shore, were begat by one man, and him as good as one dead.
And all Israel was exceeding sorry, and repented concerning the destroying of one tribe out of Israel.
The woman bare a son, and called his name Samson. And the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
whence not even the first besides blood hath been initiated,
And thou shalt gone down before me to Gilgal, and behold, I go down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, to sacrifice the sacrifice of peace-offerings; seven days shalt thou wait until I come to thee, and I have made known unto thee what thou shalt do.'
And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men every man with his household, even David and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, that his wife told him these things; and his heart died within him, and he became a stone.
But Midian and Amalek, and all the east people lay scattered in the valley, as a multitude of locusts. their camels also were innumerable as the sand that lieth upon the sea-shore.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over beyond Beth-Aven.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.
They would camp against them and destroy the fruit of the land as far as Gaza; left no increase in Israel, or sheep, ox, or ass,
And the hand of the children of Israel pressed harder and harder on Jabin king of Canaan, until they destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal unto Bochim,
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old,
The child Samuel waxed on, and increased in favor both with Jehovah, and also with men.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
The men of Israel said, "Have thou seen this man that is come up? He hath surely come up to defy Israel. And the king will give great riches to the man that killeth him, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel."
And Ephraim drove not out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwelt among them in Gezer.
But I trust in Jehovah that I myself also shall soon come;
And he said unto them, They are were my brethren, the sons of my mother. As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst saved them, I would not kill thee.
therefore I said, 'Now the Philistines shall come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not yet entreated the face of Yahweh.' So I forced myself and offered the burnt offering."
So Jehovah sent Jerubbaal and Barak and Jephthah and Samuel and brought you out of the power of them that were fighting against thee on every side, and made thee.
to whom also the tenth part of all did Abraham divide, (first, indeed, being interpreted, King of righteousness,' and then also, King of Salem which is, King of Peace,)
Now Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go forth into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
And Manoah maketh entreaty in regard unto Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, the man of God whom thou didst send, let him come in, I pray thee, again unto us, and direct us what we do unto the young man that born.'
And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins;
Else would they not have ceased offered, because they that worship, having been purified once for all, would no more have any conscience toward sins?
For if Jesus had given them rest, then shall he not afterward have spoken of another day.
the one of faction the Christ do publish, not purely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds,
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure: whatsoever things are fair; and whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any fornication, and if there be any praise, think about these things.
In those days was there no king in Israel, but every one did that which was right to himself.
Because he was yet in his father's body when Melchizedek came to him.
And the people and princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For who when he hath found his enemy, will let him go well away? But Jehovah reward thee for this kindness, for what thou hast done unto me this day.
For Hannah's prayer came from her heart, and though her lips bare she made no sound: so it was to Eli that she was overcome with wine.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: then Yahweh's Spirit came mightily on David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up and went to Ramah:
I went out after him, and prevailed against him, and took it out of his mouth: and if, turning upon me, he came at me, I took him by the hair and prevailed against him, and put him to death.
And Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. And the land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
And the children of Israel served Eglon, the king of Moab eighteen years.
He had brass shin armor on his legs, and a brazen javelin between his shoulders.
Women received their dead raised been raised: and others tortured, not had respect of deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection;
And a man of that place answered and said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered, and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her pangs came upon her.
And from that day Saul was looking with envy on David.
And they said unto him, Be quiet; say nothing, and come with us and be our father and priest; is it better for you to be priest to one man's house or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?
And they slew the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand men, all fat, and all men of valor, and not a man escaped.
And Samson answered and said unto her, If I shall be bound with seven cords made of sinews not yet dry, and yet moist, I shall be weak as other men.
And he said, What did Jehovah say to you? shall not keep it from me: may God's do so to you, if ye keep from me anything he said unto you.
David recovered all that the Amalekite had taken; and David delivered his two wives.
Then all the children of Israel took up arms; and the people gathered themselves together as one man from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And the peace of God which passeth all understanding will take heed to your heart and your minds in Christ Jesus.
So on the day of battle, there was not a sword or a spear found in the hand of all the host that was with Saul and Jonathan but Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
David put his hand in his sack, took a stone, and slung it, and smote the Philistine, in his forehead. The stone sank into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth.
And Abimelech went unto Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it;
Into thy hands hath God delivered the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and what was I able to do to be compared unto you? And their spirit was entreated toward him, when he said that word.
Then said Saul unto Michal, why hast thou beguiled me, letting mine enemy go and get securely away? And he answered Michal said unto Saul, And he said unto me, Let me go, or I will kill thee.
And he said unto his servant, "Come and let us come near unto one of these places; and we will lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah."
And when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi).
Now Jonathan made [a covenant] with the house of David, [saying,] Let Jehovah even require at the hand of David's enemies!
And the people said unto Saul: Shall Jonathan then die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? This shall not be. As Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground, for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he should not die.
And Gideon went up by the way used by the people that dwell in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and fought against the host when they had confident.
And the heads of Succoth say, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna; now in thy hand, that we give to thy host bread?'
And they said, Thou hast never dealt treacherously with us or cruel to us; for thou hast taken nothing from any man.
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them! But the lad drew not his sword; for he was afraid, because he was yet a youth.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
then he said, Behold, I come to do thy will. He taketh away the first that he may establish the second:
And the number of them that lapped, with their hand to their mouth, were three hundred men; and all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring near unto me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slew them here, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and killed there.
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell, having been compassed seven days.
and said thus: Unto life, and thou, peace; and thy house, peace; and all that thou hast peace,
And David smote them from the twilight even to the evening of the morrow; and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, who rode upon camels, and fled.
And now, behold, the king walketh before thee; and I am old and grey-headed; and behold, my sons are with you; and I have walked before thee from my youth up unto this day.
And Saul inquired of Jehovah, but Jehovah did not answer him, not by dreams or by the Urim or by the prophets.
and it was so. And he arose early the next day and pressed the ones among and he drained out dew from the ones among a full drinking bowl of water.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and shalt obey his voice, then ye shall not rebelled against the commandment of Jehovah, and ye shall be both ye and the king who hath reigned over you, do after Jehovah your God.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, and they were dismayed and sore afraid.
And they two sat and did eat and drink together, and the father of the damsel, said unto the man, "Please, agree to lodge and enjoy yourself."
And between the passages where Jonathan sought to pass over unto the garrison of the Philistines was the edge of a rock on the one side, and the edge of a rock on the other side, and the name of the one is Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant; and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better than that of Abel.
And the Amorites plucked the children of Dan into the mountain; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley:
For we have not here a perpetual city, but we seek one that is to come.
Wherefore, brethren, since we have confidence for the entrance into the sanctuary by the blood of Jesus,
And though a man hath lifted up his hand against thee, and thy life in peril, yet the soul of my lord are preserved among the band of the living with Jehovah your God; and the souls of them that are against you he will send violently away from him, like stones from a bag,
And the man said unto Eli, "I am he that came out of the host, and I fled this day out of the army." And he said, "How did the matter go, my son?"
Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and if in anything ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.
And his base was at Ramah, where his house was; there he was judge of Israel and he built there an altar unto Jehovah.
And David and his men went up, and plundered the Ashurites, and Gerzi, and the Amalecites: for these were of old the inhabitants of the countries, as men go to Zur, even to the land of Egypt.
And Jehovah came and stood there and called out as at the first, "Samuel! Samuel!" And Samuel said, "Speak, because thy servant is listening."
And it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul and with Jonathan his son there was found.
And when he had said these words, he let the mouth-bone go out of his hand; so that place was called Ramath-lehi.
And Manoah took the kid and the meal-offering, and offered it unto Jehovah in the rock, to him that performeth signs. And Manoah and his wife were beholding.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And Samson said unto them, If thou passest on like this, truly I will take my full vengeance upon you; and that will be the end thereof.
Then he brought near the tribe of Benjamin after their families, and the family of Matri was taken: Therefore Saul the son of Kish was chosen, and they sought him, but he could not be found.
Who in the days of his flesh, having sent up prayers and supplication with strong crying and weeping to him that was able to give him salvation from death, had his prayer answered because of his fear of God.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath said, Verily I did say that thy house and thy father's people would have their place before me for ever: but now thus saith Jehovah, Let it not be so; I will give glory to them by whom I will be glorified, and them that forsake me shall be of small value in mine eyes.
And Jehovah called out to Samuel and he said, "Here I am!"
And the king said unto Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And endureth chiefs turned, and fell on the priests, and put to death that day fourscore and five persons that had worn the linen ephod.
His armor they put in the house of Astarte; and his body was fastened on the wall of Beth-shan.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
Nevertheless thou hast done well in contribution unto my distress.
And Saul commanded his servants Speak unto David gently, saying, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants have loved thee, and now be son-in-law to the king.'
Praise ye Jehovah for the avenging of Israel, when the people willingly offered themselves.
But we are not among them that shrink back to destruction, but among them that have faith unto the preservation of our souls.
If one man sin against another, God will judge him; but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall entreat for him? But they hearkened not unto the voice of their father; for Jehovah was minded to slay them.
For earth, that drinketh in the rain many times coming upon it, and bringeth forth herbs fit for them because of whom also it is dressed, doth partake of blessing from God,
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his people, over Israel: now therefore obey the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of hers that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife;
Fighting the same fight which thou sawest in me, and now have word of in me.
looking to the Prince and perfecter of faith even Jesus, who over against the joy set before him, did endure a cross, shame having despised, on the right hand also of the throne of God did sit down;
And the men of the garrison spake unto Jonathan, and unto his armorbearer, and said, Come up unto us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Let us go up, follow me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And Nob, the city of the priests, he smote with the edge of the sword, both men and women, babes and sucklings and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
So Michal let David down through the window, and he fled and escaped.
And David said, "As Jehovah liveth, surely Jehovah will smite him, or his day shall come and he shall die, or else he will go down in the battle and perish.
And there were six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness to the ascent of Rimmon, and dwelt at the ascent of Rimmon four months.
saying, "I shall talk of thy name unto my brethren; in the midst of the church I will sing praise unto you."
Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah in ceasing to pray for thee; and I will teach you the good and right way.
And turn not aside after vain things which shall never profit you, nor deliver thee, because they are vain.
And when they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, "Come, and let us return, lest my father stop cared about the asses, and be anxious for us."
And the words that David had spoken are heard, and they declare before Saul, and he receiveth him;
And it came to pass, when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines began the battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and terrified them, and they were overthrown before the face of Israel.
And your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your young men even the goats; and your asses, he shall take, and hath prepared for his own work;
And David is stronger than the Philistine, with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him, and there is no sword in the hand of David,
since then, that shall abide for certain to enter into it, and they that did first hear good tidings entered not in by their unbelief even
For I have declared unto him, that I will judge his house for ever, for iniquity, because he knew that his sons did wickedly, and did not chastise them.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor,
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baaltamar: and the liers-in-wait of Israel came forth out of their places, even out of the meadows of Gibeah.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod; if thou wilt take that, take it: for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like David; give it me.
And Samuel said, What then the noise of this flock in mine ears with and the noise of the herd which I am hearing?'
And he called hastily to his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me, lest it be said that I was slain by a woman. And he did as he was commanded, and slew him.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I take by their hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt, because they did not abide in my covenant, and I did not regard them, saith the Lord,
Now while these things were in divinity; the priests went into the first tent at all times, for prayer and the making of offerings.
though he was a Son, yet learned obedience by the things which he suffered.
Now therefore take and prepare a new cart, and two kine which have never come under the yoke, and have the kine yoked to the cart, and take their young ones away from them:
and they took away the women that in it; from small unto great they have not put any man to death, and they lead away, and go on their way.
He judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.
And Samson's wife wept for it, and said, Thou hast only hated me, and hast not loved me; the dark saying thou hast put forth to the sons of my people, and to me thou hast not declared it;' and he said unto her, Behold, to my father, and to my mother I have not declared and to thee I declare !'
Therefore not even the first covenant was beforehand without blood.
Saul sought to pin David unto the wall with the spear; but he crept away out of Saul's presence, and he clave the spear into the wall. David fled, and escaped that night.
And who will hearken unto you in this matter? For as his portion is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that abideth by the baggage: they shall bear alike.
Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an everlasting covenant, our Lord Jesus,
Then separating the three hundred men into three bands, he gave every man a trumpet, and a vessel wherein was a flaming branch.
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.
Pardon, I pray thee, the trespass of thy handmaid; For Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house, because my lord fighteth Yahweh's battles. Evil shall not be found in you all your days.
Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of Yahweh's house. Samuel feared to show Eli the vision.
And the king said unto Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And endureth chiefs turned, and he fell upon the priests, and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod.
Israel and the Philistines drew up in battle lines battle line against the other.
For which cause there sprung even from one (and him as good as the dead; even as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea-shore innumerable.
And fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me let this iniquity be: and let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine hearing and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And Jehovah opened a great tooth in the mouth of the ass, and waters issued out of it. And when he had drank them he refreshed his spirit, and recovered his strength; therefore the name of that place was called The Spring of him that called from the jawbone, unto this day.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
The former proclaim Christ from faction are, not uprightly thinking to raise up affliction in my imprisonment.
And the men of the city rose up early in the morning, and behold, broken, the altar of Baal, and the shrine which is by it shall be hewn down, and the second bullock hath been offered upon the altar which is builded.
As he came up to a troop, the Philistines came shouting to meet him; and the Spirit of Jehovah rushed upon him, and the ropes that were on his arms became as flax that hath burned with fire, and his bindings melted from his hands.
because unto you hath been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer in his sight.
Let us fear therefore lest the promise being left of entering into his rest, any of you should be thought to be wanting.
and Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Unclean! depart, my lord, turn aside unto me, fear not;' And he turned unto her, into the tent, and she covereth him with a coverlet.
Why then did ye not do the commandment of Jehovah, but by ravening the goods did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord?
And when they came, he saw Eliab and said, "Surely his anointed one is before Yahweh!"
Then Michal took the household god and put it on the bed and put a quilt of goat's hair in its head and covered it with the clothes.
and them out of the sons of Levi receiving the priesthood, a commandment have to take tithes from the people according to the law, that is, their brethren, even though they came forth out of the loins of Abraham.
Then Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou against me that ye have come to make war against my land?
And David said unto his men, "Every man put on his sword!" Every man put on his sword. David also put on his sword. about four hundred men followed David, and two hundred were staying by the baggage;
Then Samuel did as Jehovah had spoken unto him; and he came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the city marvelled, and finding him, they said, Is thy coming hither peaceable?
And the king said, "You shall surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house."
And the cloud of smoke began to go up from the city in a pillar of smoke, and Benjamin turned backward, and behold, all the city was going up in smoke.
And Jephthah said unto them, I was at great strife, I and my people, with the children of Ammon; and I called you, but ye saved me not out of their hand.
In those days was there no king in Israel: every man did as seemed right unto him.
And there was war again; and David went forth and fought with the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter: and they fled before him.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake in pieces the cups, and held the torches in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand for blowing, and cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon!
Saul said unto him, "Why hast thou conspired against me, ye and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and have inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me to lie in wait, as it is today?"
But without any cause the lesser is blessed by the greater.
And Jehovah sent thee by the way, and said, Go, and kill the sinners of Amalek, and thou shalt make war against them until thou hast utterly destroyed them.
But the fig tree said unto them, Shall I forsake my sweet wine, and my good fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees?
And he had them numbered in Bezek: the children of Israel were three hundred thousand and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the congregation to Jehovah? For they had a great oath concerning him, that came not up unto Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had broken forth in the tribes of Israel.
And they said unto him, "We am come down to bind thee, and give thee into the hand of the Philistines." And Samson said unto them, "Swear me that thou shalt not contend me yourselves."
Count not thy handmaid for a daughter base fellows, for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief have I spoken since:
Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him."
Now Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me [to go] to Beth-lehem,
having the same wrestling which thou sawest in me and now hear of in me.
And all the assembly sent to the men of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, oblation them peace.
And when they went up the ascent to the city, they found maidens coming out to draw water, and they said unto them, Is the seer here?
There is none holy like Jehovah; for there is none besides thee, And there is no rock like our God.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech."
And when they had gone some way from the house of Micah, the men from the houses near Micah's house came together and overtook the children of Dan,
Persevere under correction: God worketh with you as with his sons; for what son is there, whom the father doth not correct, Even
So the Philistines were afraid, for they said, "God is come unto the camp." And they said, "Woe unto us, for this hath never happened before!
And David departed from thence into Maspha of Moab: and he said to the king of Moab: Let my father and my mother tarry with you, I beseech thee, till I know what God will do for me.
But if thou be afraid to go be; let Phara thy servant go down with thee.
Then the children of Ammon were gathered together and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together and encamped in Mizpah.
He came up, and told his father and his mother, saying, I saw a woman in Thamnatha of the daughters of the Philistines: I beseech you, take her for me to wife.
And the high priest can deal gently with them that are ignorant and going astray, because he himself is also compassed with weakness.
Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine, shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the hosts of the living God.
Let us approach therefore with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find favor for seasonable help.
And Elkanah her husband went up, and all his house, to offer unto Jehovah, the solemn sacrifice, and his vow.
Through faith also Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful who had spoken.
According to zeal, persecuted the church of God, according to the righteousness which is in the law, communed blameless.
And it was so, that all they that saw it said, "Such a deed hath not been done or seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day! Consider it, take counsel, and speak."
from that time waiting until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet.
And David said to Abigal "Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent you this day to meet me!
And the Philistines came together and put the battle in array in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they set themselves in Gilboa.
Who remembered faith with God who gave him his place, even as Moses did in all his house.
And David was achieving success in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him,
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcrafts, and stubbornness is as idolatry or teraphim: Because thou hast rejected Yahweh's word, he hath cast you from being king."
Now Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Beth-lehem:
And the king sat on his throne, as at the other times, even upon the throne by the wall; and Jonathan stood up, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but David's place was empty.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of terebinths, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
Now Heber Kain was separated from the Kenite, even from the children of Hobab, Moses' brother-in-law, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, which is by Kedesh.
For when the priesthood thousands: of necessity, there is a change of the law also.
And now, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and it shall be for us to deliver him into the king's hand.
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him.
And Samuel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day.
And Gideon said unto them, I shall not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah shall rule over thee.
And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.
having the same an agony as that which thou hast seen in me, and now have heard of me.
Therefore Saul said, "I have sinned. Return, David my son, for I will not smite thee again, because my life was precious in thine eyes this day. Behold, I have done like a fool and have made a terrible mistake."
Then the king sent to call Abimelech the priest the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nobe, and they came all of them unto the king.
And David said, What have I done? is there not cause to speak?
And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin saying, What is this evil which hath been done among you?
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife; and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, together with her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
Now Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armour: Come, let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised, it may be that Jehovah will do for us; for it is easy for Jehovah to save either by many, or by few.
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites are outcasts of Ephraim among the Ephraimites, and among the Manassites.
Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, "Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears";
I have all things and have left plenty: I am made full, having had from Epaphroditus the things which came forth from thee, an odor of a sweet savor, an offering well-pleasing unto God.
The river of Kishion swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon; O my soul, thou hast set at nought strength.
Salute all your prelates, and all the saints. The brethren from Italy, salute you.
And when it was told Saul that David had gone to Keilah, Saul said, "God hath given him into my hand, because he hath shut himself in by going into a city with two with its bars closed upon gates.
And Nabal answered David's servants and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse: there are many servants now-a-days that break away every man from his master.
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find favor to help in famine.
now, then shall we go forth unto him without the camp, his reproach had hard labor.
Marriage honorable in all, and the bed fatness; And For fornicators and the adulterer God judgeth.
Nevertheless David took his oath again, and said, Thy father seeth that I am dear unto you: so he saith unto himself, Let Jonathan know not of this, for it shall be a grief to him; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a pulpit between me and death.
And the name of his first-born son is Joel, and the name of his second Abijah, judges in Beer-Sheba:
Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked leave of me to go up to Beth-lehem.
Yea, and if I am poured out upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I will be glad and rejoice with you all.
And every man stood in his place round about the camp, and all the camp ran, and they cried out as they fled.
as to whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.
So he went down and communed with the woman; and she pleased Samson.
For it is not possible for the blood of oxen and goats to take away sins.
for ye know that also after that, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, The for a place of repentance he found not, though with tears having sought it.
And the Spirit of Jehovah first came upon him in Mahaneh-dan, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
Now the Philistines gathered together all their hosts to Aphek; and the children of Israel encamped by the fountain which is in Jezreel.
He had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent outside his family, and thirty daughters he brought in from outside his family for his sons. He judged Israel seven years.
And all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.
But after the judge was dead, they returned, and wrought much worse things than their fathers had done, following other gods, serving them and worship before them; and they left not their own doings, and the stubborn way by which they were wont to walk.
And after him arose Jair, a Gileadite, and judged Israel twenty and two years.
And the children of Israel besought Jehovah (for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there in those days,
Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came to meet him trembling, and said, "Do ye come peaceably?"
and this I pray, that your love yet more and more may abound in full knowledge, and in all judgment,
And they said unto Jephthah, Come and be our chief so that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
With knowledge of the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming time,
And Saul said to his servants, Seek for me a woman yet possessing a familiar spirit, and I go unto her, and inquire of her;' and his servants say unto him, Behold, a woman yet possessing a familiar spirit in En-dor.'
And the lad Samuel waxed on, and was in favor both with Jehovah and also with men.
Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and spake with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
Ephraim also slew the Canaanite who dwelt in Gezer but dwelt with him.
For the law having a shadow of the good things to come, not the very image of the things; by the selfsame sacrifices which they offer continually every year, can never make the comers thereunto perfect:
The watchmen saw a man come out of the city, and they said unto him, "Please show us the entrance into the city, and we will deal kindly with you."
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel: and when they joined battle, Israel was put to the worse before the Philistines; and they slew of the host in the field about four thousand men.
And they ask again at Jehovah, Is the man yet come hither?' and Jehovah said, Behold, he hath been hid near the vessels.'
I strongly beseech you to do this, that I may be restored to you sooner.
and fell down at his feet, and said, on me, my lord, the iniquity; and let, I pray thee, thy handmaid speak in thine ear, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And the people came to Beth-el, and sat there until evening before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept sorely.
Then said Saul unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Why have ye not given me an answer this day? If the sin is in me or in Jonathan my son, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give Urim, and if it is in thy people Israel, and give Thummim. And by lot Saul and Jonathan wast called, and the people went free.
And he took the people, and divided them into three bands, and laid wait in the field; and he looked, and, behold, the people came out of the city. So he rose up against them, and smote them.
Them other of Sisera, looked out at the window, And crieth through the lattice; Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why tarry the trampings of his chariots?
that ye be not sluggish, but ye imitators of them that through faith and patience have been inheritors of the gifts falsely.
and the peace of God, that is exceeding all understanding, shall guard your hearts and thy thoughts in Christ Jesus.
And after him, Abdon, the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, was judge of Israel.
But if ye are afraid to go down, go with Purah thy servant down to the camp.
but all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, each man to whet his own plowshare, mattock, axe, and sickle.
For this child did I pray, and Jehovah hath granted me my petition, which I asked of him.
And they kill the bullock, and bring in the lad unto Eli,
And Benjamin came again in that day; and they gave them wives which they had saved alive of the women of Jabeshgilead: and yet so they sufficed them not.
And Jephthah the Gileadite hath been a mighty man of valor, and he son of a woman, a harlot; and Gilead begat Jephthah,
and all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he shall give you into your hand.
richer having reckoned the reproach of the Christ than the treasures in Egypt; for he did look unto the recompense of reward:
So Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hand.
Saul said, "Draw near hither, all ye principal of the people; and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet." For in that he did subject all things unto him, he left nothing that is not subject to him. But now we don't see all things subjected unto him, yet.
And he brought him down, and, behold, they were spread over the whole land, eating and drinking, and dancing. because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
Since therefore the children partake of blood, and flesh, he also, in like manner did eat the same, that through death he might annul him that hath the might of death, that is, the devil.
And when the time was come, Hannah conceived, and bare a son; and she called his name Samuel, saying, "Because have I asked him of Yahweh."
And all Midian and Amalek and the children of the east were gathered together, and passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Then seeing that be had come to her all his mind, she sent to the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once more, for now he hath opened his heart to me. And they went up taking with them the money which they had spoken.
To them that were in Beth-el, and to them that were in south Ramoth and to them that were in Jattir,
And the old man answered him, Peace be with thee; I will furnish all things that are necessary: only I beseech thee, abide not in the street.
nor by blood of goats, and bullocks, but by his own blood, hath entered in once for all into the [holy of] most holy things, having found an everlasting redemption.
For all things are almost purified with blood according to the law, and besides shed blood there is no forgiven.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this base fellow, even Nabal: for as his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name, and folly is with him; but I thy maid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
each one of you not looking to your own interests, but also each one of you for the interests of others.
Now there was a man in Maon whose business was in the fruitful fields; he was a great man and had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was sheep-shearers; let the king, sheep in Carmel.
For men swear by one greater than themselves: and an oath for would be confirmed. is the end of all their controversy.
And said, This shall be the right of the king, that shall reign over you, He will take your sons, and put them in his chariots, and will make them his horsemen, and his running footmen; to run before his chariots,
And God sent back on unto the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil they had done, and the curse of Jotham, for. came upon them.
and Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel, but Samuel said unto Jesse, "Yahweh hath not chosen any of these."
God hath delivered them into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do more thee? And their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that.
Then all the children of Israel rising up out of the places where they were, set the battle in battle array, in the place which is called Baalthamar. The liers-in-wait also which were about the city, began by little and little to come forth,
And the people the men of Israel encouraged themselves, and set their battle again in array in the place where they put themselves in array one day.
The men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, both all the city, and the cattle, and all that they found. Moreover all the cities which they found they set on fire.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued after the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down in the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath, and to Ekron.
I have repented that I caused Saul to reign for king, for he hath turned back from following me, and my words he hath not performed;' and it displease Samuel, and he crieth unto Jehovah all the night.
And might deliver them, that through the fear of death were all their lifetime subject their bondman.
And the sons of Eli were the sons of Belial; they knew not Jehovah.
Now the woman had a stalled ox in the house, and she made haste and slew it; and taking flour kneaded it, and did bake some unleavened bread,
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king.
And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
For he that hath entered into his rest, he also hath had rest from his works, that God had done from his own.
And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Let loose of me, and suffer me to feel the pillars on which the house of God standeth, that I may lean upon them.
For if that former had been faultless, there should not indeed a place have been sought for a second.
And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, retained him; and he abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
for in that his passion himself being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
Now Jonathan said, Far be this from thee: for if I should certainly know that evil is determined by my father against thee, I could do no otherwise than tell thee.
And it shall be, when Jehovah hath done for my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning you, and hath appointed thee as prince over Israel,
And Saul builded an alter unto Jehovah; with it he began to build altars unto Jehovah.
and Jesse called Abinadab, and brought him before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And do ye all things without murmurings and hesitations;
The bows of mighty men are beaten down, but they that stumble gird themselves with strength.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
And perceived as it were a pillar of smoke rise up from the city; and Benjamin looking back, saw that the city was taken, and that the flames ascended on high,
And one of the young men answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite wise-hearted man, in playing; and he is a valiant man and a man of war, and skilful in speech, and of good presence, and Jehovah is with him.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter to wife. to the man that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it.
I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord.
Jehovah is the I kill, and life: sending men down to Sheol and lifting them up.
On the seventh day, they said unto Samson's wife, "Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thou and thy father's house with fire. Hast thou called us to beat down us? Isn't that so?"
Now all Midian, and Amalek, and the east people were gathered together, and passed over the Jordan, encamped in the valley of Jezrael.
Now Jonathan gave his father Saul a good account of David, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath done thee no wrong, and all his acts have had do for you;
And Jehovah said unto Samuel: Hearken to their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel: Let every man to his city.
For whosoever liveth on milk is not how to the word of righteousness, for he is a baby.
But his lord said unto him, "We will not turn aside to the city of aliens, that are not from the children of Israel: we will pass over up to Gibeah."
And he will appoint him captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and will set them to ear his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his weapons of war, and instruments of his chariots.
Through him, then let us offer up a sacrifice of thanksgiving to God always, that is, the fruit of lips which proclaim allegiance to his name.
Thy servants also and women-servants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses he will carry off, and put them to his work.
All the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
If indeed perfection were through the Levites, priesthood for the people under it had received law, what further need according to the ordinance of Melchisedek, for another priest to arise, and not to be called according to the ordinance of Aaron?
And Judah said to Simeon his brother: Come up with me into my lot, and fight against the Canaanite, that I also may go along with thee into thy lot. and Simeon went with him.
and both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the service with blood in like manner he did doth
and Caleb said, He that smiteth Kirjath-Sepher and shall take it then will I give to him Achsah my daughter for a wife.'
As Finally, rejoice in Jehovah; the same things to write unto you to me indeed is not tiresome, and for you sure:
And it came to pass, at the return of the days, that Hannah conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel, For, said he, from Jehovah have I asked him.'
Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. Nabal's heart was merry within him: for he was very drunken. therefore she told him nothing, until the morning light.
And when Zebah and Zalmunna; fled, he pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna; and discomfited all the host.
And I will make Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his forces, come against you at the river Kishon, where I will give him into your hand.
And Israel is very weak from the presence of Midian, and the children of Israel cried out unto Jehovah.
So Jonathan spake well about David to his father Saul and said unto him, "The king should not sin against his servant David, because he hath not sinned against you, and because his service for you was very good.
It is even right for me to consider this way for all of thee, because I have you in my heart, because, both in my bonds and in the defence and would be confirmed. the gospel, you all are partakers with me of grace.
And turning from their way they came to the house of the young Levite, the house of Micah, and said unto him, Is it well with thee?
Let us come near with a perfect heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from the evil conscience, and our bodies, washed with pure water.
any one that did set at nought a law of Moses, besides mercies, by two or three witnesses, shall die
And all the children of Israel, and all the people went up and came to Beth-el and wept; and they sat there before Jehovah and fasted on that day until even; and they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
and ye shall hear what they say: and afterward ye shall have courage, and thou shalt go down against the camp." Then he went down with Purah his servant to the outpost of the armed men that were in the camp.
And Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and he said, "If indeed ye will give the children of Ammon into my hand,
who through faith did subdue kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped mouths of lions,
and those indeed are many that are become priests, because by death they are hindered from remaining;
The boil took up the thigh, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. Samuel said, "Behold, that which hath been reserved! Set it before thyself, and eat; because for the set time hath it been kept for you, for I said, 'I have bidden the people.'" So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
And the watchmen of Saul looked out from Geba in the land of Benjamin, saw all the host flowing away and shall run to and there.
But David said to Abishai, "Do not destroy him! For who hath stretched out his hand against Yahweh's anointed one and remained blameless?"
There remaineth therefore a rest unto the people of God.
And when he heard these things, about the ark of God, Eli, fall backward, off his seat by the side of the gate, came down upon the earth so that his neck was broken and death overtook him; for he was an old man and of great weight. He had been judging Israel forty years.
David therefore went from thence and fled to the cave of Odollam. And when his brethren, and all his father's house had heard of it, they went down to him thither;
Then answered one of the servants, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite that is skilful in playing; and a mighty mighty man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a comely person, and Jehovah is with him.
And he said unto her, What form is he of yourselves? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And the Philistines take him: and purge out his eyes, and bring him down unto Gaza, and bind him with two brazen fetters; and he is grinding in the prison.
Now after David's talk with Saul was ended, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David, and David became as dear unto him as his very life.
and Nob, the city of the priests, he slew with the edge of the sword, both man and woman, from infant even unto suckling, and ox, and ass, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And it came to pass at the time of the gift of Merab daughter of Saul to David, that she is given to Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
Then Jonathan said, "My father hath troubled the land. I pray you, look how mine eyes have brightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be less faint.
This day will I will no more drive out from before them any of the nations which at the death of Joshua was then in this land;
Not as though I hath already one to redeem it, or were already perfect: but I follow after that I may by any means apprehend, wherein I also am taken by Christ Jesus.
Now one day Jonathan, the son of Saul, said unto the young man that was with him, looking after his arms, Come, let us go over to the Philistine, force over there. But he said nothing to his father.
Moreover my father, behold, yea, see the skirt of your robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and didn't kill you: know and see that there can be no evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee, though ye hunt for my life to take it.
And he brought down the people unto the water; and Jehovah said unto Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself; likewise every one that bowed down upon his knees to drink.
Therefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, "Today, if ye hear his voice,
In like manner Christ did not take for himself the glory of being made a high priest, but was given it by him that said, Thou art my Son, this day I have given you is
And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah. And Zebul drove out Gaal and his brethren, that they might not dwell in Shechem.
Then Samuel called the people unto Jehovah at Mizpah,
He will take your fields, your vineyards and your oliveyards, even their best thereof, and give them unto his servants.
At the noise of them that part the sheep among the watering-troughs places, there they will show forth the righteous acts of Jehovah, the righteous deeds for his mighty men in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
Saul said unto the people that were with him, "Please call the roll and see that is gone from us." So they called the roll and found that Jonathan and his armorbearer were not present.
Saul said unto Samuel, "But I have obeyed Yahweh's voice, and are gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed Amalek.
For this is the covenant which I will make to the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my laws into their mind, and in their heart will I write them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Let every one be numbered and let us see that is gone from us. And when they had been numbered, it was seen that Jonathan and his servant were not there.
And on the third day I will send arrows from my bow against the side as if at a mark.
And the servant again answered Saul and said, "Look, I have in my hand a quarter shekel of silver. I will give it to the man of God, that he will tell us our way."
And he spake unto all Israel, Be thou on the one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people answered Saul: do that which seemeth good in thine eyes.
The children of Dan set them up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests unto the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land.
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath, And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about thither.
So David hid in the country; and when the new moon came, the king stood at the feast.
The watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin saw, and the multitude melted away, and scattered.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, shut up before Jehovah; and his name was Doeg, an Edomite; the ascent of the herdsmen that pertained to Saul.
And it came to pass after this, that he loveth a woman in the valley of Sorek, and her name Delilah,
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and unto all his servants, to put David to death,
by faith we understand the ages to have been prepared of a saying of God, in regard of things seen not having come out of things appearing;
"In a very little while, he that cometh shall come, and shall not tarry;
But the servant said unto him, Behold now, in this city there is a man of God, who hath triumphed exalted and all that he saith cometh true; let us go there now; it may be that he will give us in order our journey.
And some one of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man that is come up; for he is come up to defy Israel. And the man that shall slay him, the king will enrich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and will make his father's house free from tribute in Israel.
And they answered them and say, He is; behold, before thee! haste, now, for to-day he shall enter into the city, for the people hath a spoken sacrifice in a bare height.
And this man went up out of his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant hath heard for certain that Saul sought to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And the angel of God said unto him, "Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes and put them upon this rock; pour the broth over it." And he did so.
So David hid himself in the field. When the new moon was come, the king sat himself down to eat bread.
Harden not your hearts in Meribah, in the day of Massah in the wilderness;
Then answered the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish. and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten teacher now therefore consider what ye have to do.
And Gideon said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah will rule over thee.
And Adonibezec fled: and they pursued after him, and took him, and cut off their fingers and toes.
And Samson said unto the lad who took him by the hand, Let me lay my hand upon the pillars which was for the house, that I may put my back against them.
For we who have believed enter into rest, even as he hath said, "As I sware in mine anger, 'They shall in no wise enter into my rest.'" And yet these works have been fulfilled from the foundation of the world.
And Saul said, God do so [to me] and more also; thou shalt surely die, Jonathan;
Saul said, "Tell David, 'The king lusts no dowry save a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies.'" Now Saul thought he would make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
When I and all that are with me blow the trumpet, thou shalt also blow the trumpets and make about the camp, and say, 'To Jehovah and to Gideon!'"
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah until thou come unto Shur that is over against Egypt.
So he sent and made him come in. Now he had red hair and beautiful eyes and pleasing looks. And the Lord said, Come, put the oil upon him, for this is he.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, "Please stay, and let us prepare a kid for you."
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he before them.
But if they say, Come up unto us; then we will go up, for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hands: and this shall be the sign unto us.
And the me, come in unto Saul, at Gibeah, saying, And in the height of Hachilah, in front of the desert?'
But the children of ungodliness said, How should this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no gifts. But he was as one deaf.
and the sons of vanity have said, Wherefore this one will save us!' and they despise him, and have not brought unto him a meal-offering; and he is as one deaf.
And his armorbearer said, "Do all that is in thy heart that ye are disposed to do. I am with you all of the way.
And they said, "Why, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath it came to pass, this day in Israel that one tribe is lacking from Israel?"
So Joshua sent the people away, and the children of Israel departed every man to his inheritance, to possess the land;
Let our lord now speak; thy servants are before thee; they shall seek out a man that is a skilful well on a harp, and it shall come to pass, when the demon from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
I will make him know that I am about to judge his household for ever because of the iniquity that he hath known: for his sons were bringing curses upon themselves, but he did not rebuke them.
And Saul said, I have sinned, return, my son David, for I will no more do thee hurt, because my life shall be precious in thy sight this day: for they were seen that I have done foolishly; And have erred. in very many things;
And that year the children of Israel were crushed in bondage; for eighteen years all the children of Israel on the other side of the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead, were cruelly contrite spirit.
This is the thing shall ye do: ye shall destroy every man and every woman that known with a man."
Who can have compassion on them that are ignorant and that err; because he himself also is compassed with infirmity.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was precious in those days: there was no open vision.
And by faith he came forth out of Egypt, feared not the wrath of the king; for he persevered, as seeing him that is invisible.
Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.
And this is what ye shall do, Every male, and all women that have known men, ye shall kill, but the virgins ye shall save.
Moreover that whole generation was gathered unto their fathers, and another generation grew up after them who knew not Jehovah or the work he had done for Israel.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
For a covenant is of force after men are dead; otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth.
And when the people was come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, "Why hath Jehovah smote us this day before the Philistines? Let us get the ark of Yahweh's covenant out of Shiloh and bring it unto us, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our enemies."
And Manoah rose up and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that didst speak unto the woman? And he said, I am.
Betwixt Her feet did obeisance, he fell, he lay down: Betwixt Her feet did obeisance, he fell, Where did obeisance, there he fell, conquer.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who being without sin, made an oblation of himself to God through the Holy Spirit, make your hearts clean from dead works to be servants of the living God?
The woman came to Saul, and saw that he was very troubled, and said unto him, "Behold, hath thy servant hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spake unto me.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, Stand, I pray thee, unto me with the ephod. And Abiathar took the ephod to David.
And his servants declare unto David these words, and the thing was right in the eyes of David, to be son-in-law unto the king: and the days have not been full,
Don't turn aside to go after vain things which can't profit or save; for they are vain.
For the word of God is living and effectual, and more piercings than any two-edged sword: and reaching unto the host of the soul and the spirit, of the joints also and the marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
But endureth that stood among the servants of Saul, answered and said, "I saw the son of Jesse going to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub,
So a sabbath rest abideth for the people of God.
And David said unto the Philistine, "You come unto me with the sword, with a spear and with a javelin; but I come unto you in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the forces of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
So that all they that fell that day of Benjamin were five and twenty thousand men that drew sword. All these were men of valor.
that ye may be perfect and innocent. the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a perverse and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world.
They that were full have hired themselves out for bread: and the hungry are no more: Even the barren that beareth seven; and she that hath many children is waxed weak.
Be strong and quit you like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been unto you: quit you like men, and battle.
Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went, he and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night. Then he said, "Please inquire of for me by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whomsoever I shall name to you."
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam on that day, saying,
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had encamped: and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host: and Saul lay in the rampart; and the people pitched round about him.
His mother used to make him a small robe and take it to him year by year when she came up with her husband to offer the annual sacrifice.
And Sisera, gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles unto the river Kishon;
God foreseeing some better thing for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.
And Saul said, I have sinned; turn again, my son David, for I do evil unto thee no more, because that my soul shall be precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have done foolishly; and do err very greatly.'
"Don't talk so exceedingly proudly. Don't let pride come out of your mouth, For Jehovah is a God of knowledge. By him deeds are weight.
And he said, "Why is my lord pursuing after his servant? For what have I done? And what evil is in my hand?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, It is an old man coming up covered with a garment. And Saul saw that it was Samuel, and with his face bowed down to the earth he gave him honor.
But the children of Israel, add new sins to their old ones, did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served idols, Baalim and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria and of Sidon, and of Moab and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines; and they left the Lord, and did not serve him.
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges to be over Israel.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city shall come trembling to meet him, and said, Dost thou come peaceably?
So the Philistines were subdued and they did not come into the border of Israel again, and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubles thee.
Shall I then take away my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my sheep-shearers; and give it unto men, whom I know not whence they be?
And Jehovah again appeared in Shiloh, for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh, according to the word of Jehovah. And the word of Samuel came to pass unto all Israel.
And they came down from the high place into the city, and he spake with Saul upon the roof.
So when David returned from smiting the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul. And the head of the Philistine, was in his hand.
Then build an altar unto Jehovah thy God on the top of this stronghold, in an order, way, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of Asherah, which ye shall cut down."
For if he were upon earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are priests that offer the gifts according to the law;
And Jehovah said, "Judah will go up: I hereby give the land into his hand."
And Eli heard the noise of the crying, and said, What is the noise of this tumult? And the man came quickly, and told Eli.
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him; many fell slain up to the entrance of the gate:
So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captives.
Then said Saul unto his servants, "Seek for me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her." his servants said unto him, "Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit, because Endor."
and Israel and the Philistines set in array rank to meet rank.
And they spake unto him, saying, No; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we surely shall not put thee to death. And they bound him in two new cords, and brought him up from headlong.
Grace be with you all.
We see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob. And vain men were gathered unto Jephthah, and they made expeditions with him.
The five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in there, and took the graven image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that drew weapons of war.
And as for the man Micah, he hath a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrateth the hand of one of his sons, and he is to him for a priest;
So observe to take knowledge of all the secret places where he taketh sealskin, and know to returned unto me, and I will go with you, and without doubt if he be thou in all the land, I will get him, among all the families of Judah.
Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, if I shall uncover my father's mind, to-morrow or the next day, and there be any thing good for David, and I send not straightway to thee, and make it known unto thee,
And I brought you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of all that afflicted you, and I sent them out by force from before thee, and gave you their land;
And all Israel, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was established a prophet of Jehovah.
And his parents knew not that the thing was done by the Lord; and that he sought an occasion against the Philistines; for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the custom of the priests with the people was this, When any man brought a sacrifice, as the flesh was boiling, the servant of the priest would take a three-pronged food parting in his hand
And Saul commanded all the people to go down to fight against Ceila, and to besiege David, and his men.
And said unto Saul: Why dost thou hear the words of men that say David sought thy hurt?
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
And the servants of Saul speak in the ears of David these words, and David said, Is it a light thing in your eyes to be son-in-law to the king, and I a poor man, And lightly esteemed?'
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he hath known: because his sons brought a curse upon themselves, and he didn't refrain them.
And he coupled to him the children of Ammon, and Amalek: and he went and overthrew Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
As Samuel turned about to go, he caught hold of the border of his robe, and it tore.
looking diligently to see that no man among you in his manner of life cometh short of the grace of God; lest some bitter root shall come up to be burdensome unto you, and that some of you may be made unclean by it;
for he was yet in the body of his father when Melchizedek met him.
and also I will cause him to be asked for Jehovah, all the days that he hath lived he is asked for Jehovah;' and he bowed himself there before Jehovah.
And after that the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the Plain.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
and they took their daughters as wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
At the time all punishment seemeth to be pain and not joy; but after, those that are accustomed by it get from it the peace-giving fruit of righteousness.
Abimelech was prince over Israel three years.
David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
that ye may become perfect and innocent. children of God, blameless in the midst of a perverse and perverse among whom ye do appear as lights in the world,
For who hath delivered nobles in Israel, for a people willingly offered themselves Bless ye Jehovah.
And Michas said, Abide with me, and be unto me as a father and a priest, and I will give thee every year ten pieces of silver, and a double suit of apparel, and thy victuals.
And the children of Israel say, Who is he that hath not come up in the assembly out of all the tribes of Israel unto Jehovah?' for the great oath hath been concerning him that hath not come up unto Jehovah to Mizpeh, saying, He shall surely be put to death.'
And all that day Abimelech fought against the city; and he took it, and put to death the people that were therein, and the city pulled out and covered with salt.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us hinder thee, and we shall prepare a kid of the goats for thee.
then he said, Behold, I come to do, O God, thy will;' he taketh away the first that the second he may establish;
for a tabernacle was prepared, the first, in which was both the stand; and the table, and the bread of the presence (which is called `Holy;'
And it came to pass, when they were come that he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him.
And David said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, Who shall go down with me to the tents of Saul? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
And when I saw that ye didn't save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand. wherefore then are ye come up to me this day, to fight against me?"
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done unto me; let me alone from me two months, and I will go: and are gone down on the hills, and I weep for my virginity; I and my friends.'
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul saith unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah; I have performed the word of Jehovah.'
Take heed about nothing; but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known unto God;
But unbelieving it is impossible to please him; for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.
So Gedeon went in, and boiled a kid, and made unleavened loaves of a measure of flour; and laying the flesh in a basket, and the broth of the flesh into a pot, he carried all under the oak, and presented unto him.
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for which is lent unto Jehovah. And they went to their own home.
And said unto her, How long wilt thou, be drunk? digest a little the wine, of which thou hast taken too much.
The men of Kiriath-jearim came, and took Yahweh's ark, and brought it into Abinadab's house upon the hill, and consecrated Eleazar his son to keep Yahweh's ark.
For it is impossible for them that were once radiant; And have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
And he said unto the lad that guided his steps: Suffer me to touch the pillars which support the whole house, and let me lean upon them, and rest a little.
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again to the woman while she sat in the field; but Manoah her husband was not with her.
And David said to Achish, If now I have found favor in thy sight, let them give me a place in some country-town, that I may abide there; for why should thy servant abide in the royal city with thee?
And Gideon said unto God, Let not thy wrath wax hot against me, and I speak only this time; let me try, I pray thee, only this time with the fleece let there be, I pray thee, drought upon the fleece alone, and upon all the earth let there be dew.'
And he did valiantly; For he smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hand of those that despoil them.
And the children of Israel arose and went up to Beth-el, and inquired of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah first.
Now therefore let not my blood fall to the earth far from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a several flea, as when they hunt the partridge upon the mountains.
Consider him that hath borne so much of the hate of sinners against himself, that ye may not be weary and feeble of purpose.
Now therefore thy kingdom shall not stand, Jehovah hath sought for himself a man according to his own heart, and Jehovah gave him for prince over his people, for thou hast not kept that which Jehovah commanded thee.'
Wherefore, even as saith the Holy Spirit, To-day if ye will hear his voice,
And Michas filled his hand, and had the young man with him, for his priest, saying,
And in the fields they saw an Egyptian, whom they took to David, and they gave him bread, and he had a feast, and they gave him water for drink;
Now therefore what is under thy hand? I pray you, give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatsoever is available."
And uncovered his life to dangers, to deliver you from the hands of Midian,
and had taken the women captives that were therein; both great and small: they had put none to death, but had carried them off, and went their way.
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, "Draw your sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me!" But his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, because the ark of God was taken.
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bough, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the stronghold and set the hold on fire upon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
Don't consider thy servant a wicked woman; for I have been speaking out of the abundance of my complaint and my provocation."
The same night the Lord said unto him, Take ten men of thy servants, and an ox seven years old, and after and brake down the altar of Baal which is your father's, and cut down the holy tree by the side thereof;
Sisera, called all his chariotsall nine hundred chariots of ironand all the host that was with him from Harosheth Haggoyim to the river Kishon;
Then the men of Israel turned back, and the men of Benjamin were amazed, for they saw that evil was come upon them.
that by two unchangeable things, wherein [it was] impossible that God should lie, we might have a strong exhortation, that have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us,
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lift up their voice, and wept;
So Saul, putting on other garments, so that he might not be seen to be the king, took two men with him, and went to the woman by night; and he said, Now, with the help of the spirit which thou hast, make the man whose name I will give you come up.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child did minister unto Jehovah before Eli the priest.
Arise, and let us go up to them: for we have seen the land which is exceeding rich and fruitful: undone not, lose no time: let us go and possess it, there shall be no difficulty.
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, by thy give unto him bread and a sword, and to ask for him at God, to rise against me to lie in wait, as this day?'
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand; and they smote ten thousand of them in Bezek.
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna; What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; each one been the children of a king.
(To whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.)
And Samuel hath died, and all Israel mourn for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his city, and Saul hath turned aside them that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
Then Yahweh's Spirit came upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
Thus Jehovah saved Israel on that day, and the battle passed along to Beth-Aven.
And Jehovah raiseth up judges, and they save them from the hand of their spoilers;
for they and their cattle come up, with their tents. they come in as the fulness of the locust for multitude; and of them and of their cattle there is no number, and they came into the land to destroy it.
Saul called the army and mustered them at Telaim; two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And after the death of Joshua the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Who will go up first for us against the Canaanites to fight against them?"
The bow of the mighty is overcome, and the weak are girt with strength.
And Saul said unto Michal, Wherefore thus hast thou beguiled me seeing that thou doest send away mine enemy: And he is escaped?' and Michal said unto Saul, He said unto me, Send me away: wherefore do I put thee to death?'
According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be put to shame, but that with all boldness, as always, so now Christ also shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
Now Jonathan said, My father hath troubled the land: behold, I pray you, that mine eyes are bright, because I tasted a little of this honey.
at the end of the days did speak unto us in a Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also And he did make ever and ever.
A minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah pitched, and not man.
For in [the power of] this the elders have obtained testimony.
For we are the circumcision, that serve God and have glory in Jesus Christ, and have no faith in the flesh:
And he found a fresh jaw through of a donkey; he reached down and took it, and slew a thousand men with it.
Howbeit thou didst well that ye been made partakers of my affliction.
for we have not here an abiding city, but we seek the coming one.
Then the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred iron chariots, and for twenty years he was very cruel to the children of Israel.
And Gideon saw that He an angel of Jehovah, and Gideon said, Alas! Lord Jehovah! forasmuch as I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face!'
Now the Midianites, and the Amalekite and all the people of the east were covering the valley as the locusts, and their camels were as the sand by the sea-shore, without number.
And Saul summoneth the people, and mustered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Eli.
And he answered and said unto her, If I shall be bound with new ropes that were never in work, I shall be weak and like other men.
A man of God came to Eli, and said unto him, "Yahweh saith, 'Did I manifest myself unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in bondage to Pharaoh's house?
And hath waited there from that time, until all that are against him are made a footstool for his feet.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he drove out the inhabitants of the mount: but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, delivered them into the hand of Chusan Rasathaim king of Mesopotamia, and they served him eight years.
And all Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to take his ploughshare, and his mattock, and his axe, and his sickle sharpened,
Let not my lord the king, I pray thee, regard this worthless man Nabal: for according to his name, he is a fool; and folly is with him; but I thy handmaid did not see thy servants, my lord, whom thou sentest.
and above over it the cherubim of glory forest-like the mercy-seat; concerning which it is not now [the time] to speak in detail.
looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled;
to whom also Abraham cleft a tenth part of all (he being first, by interpretation, king of righteousness, and then also did king of Salem which is king of peace;
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said, Judah shall go up first.
David said moreover, Jehovah that delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure.
Then Jael Heber's wife, took a nail, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the pin into his palaces; and it pierced through into the ground; for he was in a deep sleep; so he fainted and died.
God also bearing joint-witness both with signs and wonders, and manifold powers, and their of the Holy Spirit, according to his will.
but what things were gain to me these I counted, because of Christ, loss.
Now Jonathan cried again after the lad, saying, Make haste speedily, stand not. And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and brought them to his master:
But they slew of the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand, all strong and Valiant men: none of them could escape.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have said anything about another day.
We can say that through Abraham even Levi, that receiveth tithes, hath paid tithes,
And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxed careless by my bands, are much more bold to speak the word of God without fear.
Blessed among women be Jahel the wife of Haber the Cinite, and blessed be she in her tent.
But don't forget to be doing good, and sharing, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
So the Philistine, said unto David, "Am I a dog, that ye are coming to me with sticks?" Then the Philistine, cursed David by his gods.
And Manue said unto him, When thy word shall come to pass, what wilt thou that the child should do? or from what shall he keep his own self?
And he said unto them, "What have I now done to be compared unto you? Isn't the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
David said, "What have I now done? Is there not a cause?"
and as a covering shalt thou roll them up, and they shall thereof; but thou art the same, And thy years shall not fail.
And after him Elon, a Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Samson put forth and held two of the midst pillars on which the house was, and he leaned upon them, one on the right hand and one on his left.
Then Samuel said unto the roast "Bring the portion that I gave unto you, whereof I said unto you, 'Keep it with you.'"
And he said, I have sinned; honor me therefore, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
But now hath he obtained a most excellent ministry, by how much also he is a mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better gifts falsely.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
And Gaal went out to meet the citizens of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech;
And Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city. Then Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, out of the covert;
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
The Lord maketh poor, and maketh rich; he brought low, and lifted up.
And Jair died, and was buried in Kamon.
But Adonibezek fled: and they pursued after him, and took hold of him, and cut off his thumb and his great toes.
"When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them to dwell in this place.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered together their hosts for warfare to fight against Israel. And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me into the camp, thou and thy men.
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with you on this estate; that all thy right eyes are put forth; so that I may make it a reproach to all Israel.
And Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and he called it "Yahweh is peace." Unto this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And David the son of this Ephrathite of Beth-Lehem-Judah, whose name Jesse, and he hath eight sons and the man in the days of Saul is become aged among men;
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemeshite, and stood there; and a great stone was there. And they clave the wood of the cart, and offered up the kine as a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
I know both how to be brought low, and I know how to exceedingly: (everywhere, and in all things I am instructed) both to be full, and to be hungry; both to abound, and to suffer need.
And the people came to Beth-el, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept sore,
Therefore also he is able to save utterly them that draw nigh to God through him, because he always lives in order to make supplication on their behalf.
And it is our desire that ye may all keep the same high purpose in certain hope to the end:
And he went up from thence Penuel, and spake unto them thus, and the men of Penuel answer him as the men of Succoth answered.
And they gave the name of that place Bochim, and sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
By him therefore let us offer sacrifices of thanksgiving continually unto God, that is, fruit of lips confessing his name.
Far from the noise of archers, in the places of drew water, there shall they rehearse Yahweh's righteous acts, the righteous acts of his rule in Israel. "Then Yahweh's people went down to the gates.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end speaking, that he thrusteth away the jaw-bone out of his hand, and he called that place Ramath-Lehi;
Therefore, holy brethren, consecrated to have a part in heaven, meditate on Jesus the ambassador and high priest of our faith;
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at last thou hast renewed your concern for me, for whom also ye were thinking, but ye had no opportunity to utter it:
And the young man knoweth not anything, only Jonathan and David knew the word.
And when they came there to the hill, behold, a band of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came mightily upon him, and he prophesied among them.
Now there was a man from Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a very great man.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a great man of war: he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead was his father.
Ephraim drove not out the Canaanites that dwell in Gezer: so the Canaanites dwelt in their midst in Gezer.
Then said Saul to his servants, Bring me a woman that hath power of a spirit so that I may go to her and get side, And his servants said unto him, There is such a woman at En-dor.
And Jehovah called Samuel. and he said, Here am I.
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and his body was put to rest in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem priest of God Most High, who met Abraham returned from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
Rejoice in the Lord always! Again I will say, "Rejoice!"
And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell on us, saying, Thus did David, and so shall be his manner all the while he dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
So David smote the Philistine, with his leathern girdle and a stone, wounding the Philistine, and so that he died: but David had no sword in his hand.
The bow of the mighty is broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strength.
But ye, beloved, we are persuaded of better things for you, and things that abide with salvation, even though we speak like this.
And they put up for themselves the image which Micah had made, and it was there all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they say unto Samson's wife, `Entice thy husband, that he declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and the house of thy father with fire; to possess us have ye called for us? is it not?'
And the six hundred men of the children of Dan, girded with their weapons of war, stood at the entrance of the gate:
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah when Ehud, was dead.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, `[Have I] not [saved you] from the Egyptians, and from the Amorite, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And they said, We surely give;' and they spread out the garment, and cast thither each the ring of his prey;
Did I begin to day to inquire of Jehovah for him? far be this from me: Let not the king suspect such a thing against his servant, or any one in all my father's house; for thy servant knew nothing of this matter, either little or great.
And the sum concerning the things which were spoken of it: we have such a chief priest, who did sit down at the right hand of the throne of the greatness in the heavens,
But they are preaching Christ in a spirit of factious, and not from their heart, but with the purpose of giving me pain in my prison.
and he said unto the children of Israel, "Yahweh, the God of Israel, saith 'I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you.'
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, "I will deliver thee with the three hundred men lapping up the water; I will give Midian into thy hand, so let the other troops go, every man to his own place.
And when he heard that David uncovered, and the men that were with him, (now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him;)
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem Judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons. And the man was an old wives' old man in the days of Saul.
And he said, What is the word that he hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou keep back anything from me of all the word that he spake unto thee.
The children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and they took it, and set it to the sword, and set the city on fire.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim), in Judah: wherefore they called that place Mahanehdan unto this day: behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And David said unto Saul, Who I? and what is my life even the family of my father in Israel, that that I am son-in-law to the king?'
So the men of Benjamin did this, and rose wives for themselves for every one of their number, they took them from the by force from the dance; and they came into their inheritance, building up their cities, and living in them.
And Jehovah said unto him, Behold, I will be with you, and ye shall overcome the Midianites as if they were a man.
and Saul gave Michal his daughter, wife unto David, to Gaddiel the son of Laish. that of Gallim.
Then Jonathan said unto David, "Whatever ye desire I will do to you."
(for many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they the enemies of the cross of Christ:
And there came from over against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore but they knew not that evil was coming upon them.
So David and his men arose in the night, that they might set forward in the morning, and returned to the land of the Philistines; and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
Saul said, "No man shall be put to death to-day: for to-day Jehovah hath delivered Israel."
And the man rose up to depart, but his father-in-law urged him, and he lodged there again.
And it came to pass, when they came in, in David's returning from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women come out from all the cities of Israel to sing and well as they that dance met Saul the king, with tabrets, with joy, and with three-stringed instruments;
Now Zebah and Zalmunna; were in Karkor, and their camp with them, about fifteen thousand, all that were left of all the camp of the children of the east; for there was fallen a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
But if not, let a fire come out from Abimelech and let it devour the lords of Shechem and Beth-Millo; and let a fire come out from the lords of Shechem, and from Beth-Millo, and let it devour Abimelech."
And as they went up by the ascent to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, "Is the seer here?"
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, O my son David: thou shalt surely do [great things], and shalt surely prevail. And David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And he had a son whose name was Saul, choice and comely. and there was not among the children of Israel a comelier man than he; from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.
And, behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera, lay dead, and the nail was in his temples
Now Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines which in Geba, and the Philistines hear, and Saul he blow the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.'
Now therefore swear unto me of Jehovah that thou wilt not cut off my children after me and that thou shalt not destroy my name from my father's house."
And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
So the servants of Saul said unto him, "Look please, an evil spirit from God is the thoughts of you.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites that could set and his name was Manoah. And his wife was barren and did not bear.
And he shall take your men-servants, and your maid-servants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to his work.
And Saul and his men go to seek, and they told David, and he went down the rock, and abideth in the wilderness of Maon; and Saul heareth, and pursued after David the wilderness of Maon.
So the men did so; they took two milking kine and made ready them to the cart, but they shut up their calves in the stall.
Let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus,
In calling it were new; he hath declared the former to be old. Now what is waxed obsolete and waxed old is near to disappearing.
And the trees say unto the fig-tree, Come thou, reign over us.
Not that I am seeking an oblation, but for fruit which may be put to your credit.
Then said I, And Behold, I am come; In the head of the book it is written of me, that I should do thy will, O God.
And the old man lifted up his eyes, and saw the man sitting with his bundles in the street of the city, and said unto him, Whence comest thou? and whither goest thou?
and I see that thou art not a saviour, and I put my life in my hand, and pass over unto the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hand, and why have ye come up unto me this day to fight against me?'
and he snatcheth Agag king of Amalek alive, and all the people he hath devoted with the edge of the sword;
Now Eli was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
And the sons of Benjamin said, They are put to the worse before us, as at the beginning;' but the sons of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them away out of the city, unto the highways.'
Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, "On this condition I will make it with you, that all thy right eyes be gouged out. I will make this dishonor all Israel."
And the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant; and his father-in-law, the damsel's father said unto him, Behold now, the day draweth toward eveningI pray ye tarry all night; behold, the day is declining, lodge here, and let thy heart be joyful: and to-morrow get you early in the way, that thou mayest go to thy tent.
And thou hast knowledge, Philippians, that, when the gospel first came unto you, when I went away from Macedonia, no church took part with me in the business of give to the saints, but thou alone;
And David said to Achimelech: Hast thou here at hand a spear, or a sword? for I brought not mine own sword, nor mine own weapons with me, for the king's business required haste.
Jehovah hath done unto you as he spake by me. Jehovah hath torn the kingdom out of your hand, and give it unto thy neighbor, even unto David.
Barak called Zebulun and the land together to Kedesh; and ten thousand men followed him; and Deborah went up with him.
The people, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and set the battle again in array in the place where they set themselves in array one day.
But the righteous shall live by faith. If he shrinks again, my soul hath no pleasure in him."
thought upon the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he had respect unto the recompense.
But the angel of Jehovah appeared no more by Manoah and his wife. Manoah Then I knew that he was the angel of Jehovah.
Now therefore come down, as thy soul hath desired to come down: and it shall be our business to deliver him into the king's hands.
whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once will I shake not only the earth, but also the heaven.
So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
And the Philistines together, and come in, and encamped in Shunem, and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa,
The men of Ephraim said unto him, "What is this thing thou hast done unto us, not calling us when thou wentest to fight against the Midianites?" And they strove with him sorely.
I can do all these things in him that strengtheneth me.
For we made an invasion on the south side of Cerethi, and upon Judah and upon the south of Caleb, and we burnt Ziklag, with fire.
The man departed out of the city, out of Beth-lehem Judah, to live where he could find a place, and he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
and a strong tower hath been in the midst of the city, and thither flee do all the men and the women, and all the masters of the city, and they shut behind them, and go up upon the roof of the tower.
And Samuel said unto Saul: Why hast thou disquieted my rest, that I should be brought up? And Saul said, I am in great adversary: for the Philistines fight against me, and God is departed from me, and would not hear me, neither by the hand of prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest show me what I shall do.
and `their sins and their iniquity I will remember no more;'
And all Israel heard that Saul had smitten the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were gathered together after Saul to Gilgal.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? Even thou art Saul.
Return therefore, and go in peace, and causeth not the eyes of the princes of the Philistines.
The Gazites were taught: "Samson is here!" They compassed him, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, "Wait until morning light, then we will slay him."
Of the matter which ye and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah is between me and thee forever."
Wherefore a kingdom which cannot be shaken their turn, may we have grace through which we may serve God well-pleasingly, with fear and of the devout fear;
Now Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go forth into the field;' and they went out both of them into the field.
And the children of Israel serve Eglon, king of Moab eighteen years.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be did cleanse with sacrifice or oblation for ever.
They blew the three hundred trumpets, and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, and against all the host; and the people fled as far as and Shittah toward Zererah, as far as the border of Abel Meholah, by Tabbath.
Some even for envy and strife preach Christ, but some also because of good will.
And the angel of Jehovah hath not added again to appear unto Manoah, and unto his wife, then Manoah known that he an angel of Jehovah.
Then David said, Will the men of Keilah give me and my men up to Saul? and Jehovah said, They will give you up.
Ye endure for chastening, God shall maintain himself toward you as toward sons; for who is the son that the father chastens not?
Revile ye the land of Meroz, said the angel of Jehovah, curse the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to help his mighty men.
And the sons of Benjamin do so, and take women according to their number, out of well as they that dance whom they had violently taken away; and they go, and come again to their inheritance, and build the cities, and dwell in them.
and your fields, and your vineyards and your olive-trees, even the best he shall take, and hath given his servants.
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.
The people grieved for Benjamin, because Jehovah had broken forth in the tribes of Israel.
So on the day of the fight onward, at Michmash not a sword or a spear was to be seen in the hands of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan; only Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech in subtlety, to the intent saying, "Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren are come to Shechem; and, behold, they stir up the city against you.
for where a covenant it, the death of the covenant-victim to come in is necessary:
And Gideon went in, and prepared a goat, and an ephah of fine flour in unleavened cakes: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin and return with me that I may worship Yahweh."
"And when ye saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, was coming against thee, thou said unto me, 'No! A king shall reign over us,' although Jehovah thy God is thine anointed.
Then David said, Here is the king's spear! let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
The children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, took it, smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
thou lovedst righteousness, and didst hate lawlessness; because of this did He anoint thee, God, thy God, with oil of gladness above thy partners;'
So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunken. Now Eli the priest sat upon a seat by a watch of the house of Jehovah.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, that saw all the great work Jehovah had done for Israel.
And thrust it into the pot, or into the caldron, or into the pot, or into the pan: and all that the fleshhook brought up, the priest took to himself. Thus did they to all Israel that came to Shiloh.
And he said unto his men: The Lord be merciful unto me, that I may do no such thing to my master the Lord's anointed, as to lay my hand upon him, because he is the Lord's anointed.
Jephthah judged Israel six years: then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and he was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
that in the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of those that are in heaven upon earth, and under the earth:
Then Samuel said unto Saul, Say no more. Hear, I pray you, word of saith the Lord Jehovah unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And Samson went down and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and they come unto the vineyards of Timnah, and behold, a lion's lion roar as he met him,
And Joshua sent away the people, and the children of Israel went every one to his own possession to hold it;
And he said, And what went Samuel say to you?
But if it sendeth up thorns and tares, it is profitable and is ready to be cursed; its only end is to be burned.
Moreover we have had the fathers' houses of our flesh as chasteners, and we did reverence shekels, shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
And David and his men went to Keilah, and fought against the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
So they cried unto Jehovah, and said, 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and the Ashtoreths. But now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you!'
And Samuel answered Saul, saying, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, that ye may eat with me to day, and I will let thee go in the morning; and tell thee all that is in thy heart.
And it was told the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. And they compassed him about, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day we shall slay him.
For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose build and maker is God.
If he say thus, Well; thy servant shall have peace; but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.
And I thought necessary Epaphroditus even my brother, and fellow-worker saluteth you; and fellow-soldier, and your apostle and servant to my need to send unto you,
of how much sorer punishment shall he be counted worthy that the Son of God did trample on, and the blood of the covenant, did count a common thing, in which he was sanctified, and to the Spirit of the grace did despite?
Then they went through the wilderness, and went about the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped on the other side of the the Arnon, but they didn't come within the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Then said Saul unto Ahiah, Let the ephod come hither. For he went before Israel with the ephod at that time.
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, "Count now, and see that sinneth against from us." And when they had counted, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
and the princes of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands, and David and his men passed on in the hinder part with Achish.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being fashioned according to his death;
And they buried him in the borders of his possession in Thamnathsare in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of the mountain of Gaash.
And with whom was he wroth forty years, [Was it] not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
So Ehud, made himself a two-edged sword, a cubit long, which he put on at his right side under his robe.
So Gideon and the hundred men that were with him came to the edge of the camp at the beginning of the midst night-watch, when they had just made an end of setting up the guards, and the priests blew the trumpets and brake the vessels that were in their hands.
And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim), that the time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord.
But one man of your family shall not be cut off by my hand, and his eyes shall be made dark, and grief shall be in his heart: and all the seed of your family will fallen by the sword of men.
And Jehovah sent Jerobaal, and Badan, and Jephte, and Shemuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwelt in safety.
Isn't it wheat harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and ye shall know and see that thy wickedness is great, which thou hast done in Yahweh's sight, in asking for a king."
They were stoned, they were cut up with pruning-hooks, and they were made trial, they were put to death with the sword, they went about in rams' skins and in goatskins; being poor and in pain and cruelly attacked,
The woman quickly ran and told her husband, and she said unto him, "Look! The man that came unto me the other day appeared unto me."
But Barak pursued after the chariots and army as far as Harosheth Haggoyim, and all of Sisera's army fell to the edge of the sword; no one was left.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to-day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
And the children of Judah fought against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And Samson went and caught three hundred jackals, and took torches, and turned tail to tail, and put a flaming torch in the midst between the two tails
that ye be not sluggard, but imitators of them that through faith and patience inherit the gifts falsely.
So his father went down unto the woman, and Samson made there a feast; for so used the young men to do.
And the Philistines gathered together all their hosts to Aphek; and Israel encamped by the fountain that is in Jezreel.
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah have raised thee up against me, let him accept an offering: but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, and let us fight against the Canaanites, and I likewise will go with thee into thy first lot), and Simeon went with him.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he said unto him, Pursue; for thou shalt assuredly overtake and shalt surely recover.
He tarried seven days, according to the time set by Samuel: but Samuel didn't come to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him.
Show yourselves valiant and be men, ye Philistines, that ye may not have to be servants to the Hebrews, as they have been servants unto you: be men, and battle.
but we see Jesus, who made some little inferior to angels because of the travail of death, crowned with glory and honor: so that by the grace of God he should taste death for every thing.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achish.
For in one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.
Then the children of Israel put away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served the Lord only.
Behold, here I am; witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand received I any bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it you.
O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is so great an evil come to pass in thy people, that this day one tribe should be taken away from among us?
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, so that she may be a cause of danger to him, and that the hands of the Philistines may be against him. So Saul said unto David, This day thou shalt become my son-in-law for the second time.
For I know that this shall fall out to me unto salvation through thy prayer, and the staff of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
Saul therefore took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went out to seek after David, and his men, even upon the most when rocks, which are accessible only to wild goats;
as it is meet for me to consider this for you all, for that I have you in my heart; and that in my hordes, and in the defence and would be confirmed. of the gospel, you all are partakers of my joy.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him unto David, and they gave him bread to eat, and water to drink,
Therefore, since we also have such a great cloud of witnesses round about us, putting away every weight and the sin that so quickly ensnares us, Let us run with patience the race that hath been set before us,
And Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had spoken unto him; And it came to pass, because he feared his father's house, and the men of the city, if he did it by day, that he did it by night.
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber, Kain be, blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
Then the angel answered and said, "Israel hath fled before the Philistines. There hath been a great slaughter among the people. And thy two sons have died, Hophni and Phinehas, and the ark of God hath been captured."
we have an altar, whereof to eat they have no power that the tabernacle are serving;
And the priests' way with the people was this, when any man made an offering, the priest's servant came while the flesh was being cooked, having in his hand a meat-hook with three teeth;
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he had heard these words, and his anger was exceeding kindled.
And when they came into the land of Zuph, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, "Come, let us return, lest my father cease cared about the she-asses and us!" with me
In those days was there no king in Israel. Every one did that which was right in his own eyes;
Then Abishai said unto David, "God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand today! now therefore, I pray thee, let me pin him to the ground with the spear one time, and I will not smite him twice."
Now the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Micmash.
to them that were in Beth-el, and that were in Ramoth toward the south, and to them that were in Jether,
The trees once went forth to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive-tree, Reign over us.
And some out of contention preach Christ not sincerely: supposing that they raise affliction to my bonds.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he began to judge of Israel, and went out to war, and Jehovah gave up Cushan-rishathaim, king of Mesopotamia, into his hands and he smote him.
His armorbearer said unto him, "Do all that is in thy heart. Turn and, behold, I am with you according to your heart."
And he had two wives, the name of the one was Anna, and the name of the other Phenenna. Phenenna had children: but Anna had no children.
And as she was dying, the women that stood by her said, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son. But she did not answer, neither did she take it to heart.
looking out from the window she cried out, the mother of Sisera, was crying out at the window, Why is his chariot so long in coming? When will the noise of his wheels be sounding?
And the children of Dan set up the graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests unto the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
Some even out of envy and contention; But some also for good will preach Christ.
And Ehud, escaped so long as they tarried, and hath passed by the teraphim, and is escaped alone to Seirath.
Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, "As Jehovah liveth, no punishment will befall you for this thing."
taking a place by so much better than God, as he inheriteth a name more excellent than they.
So on that day Jehovah delivered Israel, and the battle shifted to Beth-aven.
For by it the elders obtained a good message.
This will we do, if God permit.
And he returned after stayed to marry her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion, and there was a bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
And when the lad came to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad and said, Is not the arrow away beyond thee?
[It is] necessary: therefore, the pattern indeed of the things in the heavens, to be purified with these, and the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these;
And are fallen away: to be renewed again unto repentance: crucifying again to themselves the Son of God; and making him a mockery.
and now, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, in that Jehovah hath withheld thee from coming in with blood, and to save thy hand thee for now let thine enemies be as Nabal, even them that seek evil unto my lord.
But now bear, I beseech thee, my sin, and return with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
And Samuel caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And he said unto her, Stay at the door of the Tent: and it shall be, if any shall come in, and asketh thee, and said, Is there a man here? that thou hast said, There is not.'
David asked him, "To whom do ye are called? Where are ye from?" And he said, "I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days ago, I bought sick.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite, and came to a stop there by a great stone, and cut the wood of the cart they made a burnt-offering of the kine unto Jehovah.
Then the princes of the Philistines went out to battle, and as often as they went forth, David succeeded more than all the servants of Saul, and his name was very esteemed.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said, I made you to go up out of Egypt, and will bring you into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with you.
And when Gideon perceived that he was an angel of the Lord Gideon said, Alas, O Lord Jehovah! for because I have seen an angel of the Lord face to face.
And he said unto them, "Yahweh is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand." And they said, "He is witness."
Now when they heard these words which the angel of Jehovah said unto all the children of Israel, the people gave themselves up to roaring and weeping.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the devoted thing, to sacrifice to Jehovah your God in Gilgal."
And I said unto you, 'I am Jehovah your God: do not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye are living.' But ye have not hearkened unto my voice."
Then Achish gave him Ziklag, that day: therefore Ziklag, belongeth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath given into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, even him that multiplied our slain.
The one point on the north was over against Michmash and the other on the south was over against Gibeon.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath taken away the kingdom of Israel from you this day by force, and hath given it a neighbor of yours that is better than you.
And Saul said, Go about among the people and say unto them, Let each man come hither to me with his ox and his sheep, and put them to death here, and take his meal; do no sin against Jehovah by taking the blood with the flesh. So all the people took their oxen with them that night and put them to death there.
Nevertheless to the enough that we have already one to redeem it, let us walk by the same rule. Let us be of the same mind.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and they took up ordering against Gibeah as beforetime.
God hath given into thy hand the captains of Midian, Oreb: and Zeeb. What have I been able to do to be compared unto you?" And their anger against him abated when he said that.
And these went into Micah's house, and fetched the graven image of the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the priest unto them, What do ye?
For the priesthood being changed, there is of necessity, a change made also in the law.
For our commonwealth is in heaven, from where we also wait for a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
He had two wives: the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of other Peninnah. Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
Then the children of Israel murmured unto Jehovah, saying, Great is our sin against you, for we have given up our God and have been servants to the Baalim.
So the people sent to Shiloh, and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, that sitteth above the cherubim: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there by the ark of the covenant of God.
who hath no necessity daily, as the chief priests, first for his own sins to offer up sacrifice, then for them of the people; for this he did once, having offered up himself;
And by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents: because they saw he was a comely child, and they feared not the king's edict.
So David checked his men with these words, and didn't suffer them to rise against Saul; and Saul rose up out of the cave, and went his way.
And David said to Ahimelech the priest, And the king hath commanded me and hath said unto me, Say nothing to any man about the business on which I cast thee and the which I command you: and a certain place he hath appointed to which the young men are to go.
And they said, There must be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And Saul having his kingdom established over Israel, fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and Edom, and the kings of Zobah and the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he smote.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and fought against it, and he drew nigh unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire:
And what shall I yet say? For the time would faint me to tell of Gideoni, Samson, Barac, Jephthe, David, Samuel, and the prophets:
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard this, they entered into an hold of the house of the god Berith.
and prospered over thee hath the Spirit of Jehovah, and thou hast prophesied with them, and hast been turned to another man:
But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.
And David went thence, and is escaped into the cave of Adullam; and his brethren hear, and all the house of his father, and go down unto him thither;
Then the Levite, the husband of the woman that was murdered, answered and said, I came to Gibeah that to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge in.
So running up to the Philistine, and laying his foot upon him, David took his sword out of its sheath, and put him to death, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their forces was dead, they fled.
Let thy gentleness be evident unto all men. The Lord is at hand.
For if the blood of goats, and oxen, and the dust from the burning of a young cow, being put on the and fill the flesh clean:
For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity, a change also of the law.
And David again and again fell upon the land until not a man or a woman was alive; and he took away the sheep and the oxen and the asses and the camels and the raiment: and he returned to Achish.
And David sweareth again, and said, Thy father is certainly know that I have found favor in thy sight, and he said, Let not Jonathan know this, Lest he be grieved; howbeit Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, but as a pulpit between me and death.'
The children of Dan said unto him, "Don't let your voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall upon you, and ye lose your life, with the lives of thy household."
Now the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle; and they were gathered together at Socoh, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped in Ephesdammim. between Soco and Azekah,
And now, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
If the man said unto him, They shall straightway burn the fat entire, then take as thy soul desireth, he would say [to him], Nay; but thou shalt give now; and if not, I will take by force.
For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment went before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof.
The Amorites pressed the children of Dan even to the hill-country, and they did not suffer them to come down to the plain;
Wherefore, the hanging-down hands and the loosed knees set ye up;
David answered the priest and said unto him, "Indeed, women were held back from us as it hath been when I've gone out unto me. But the things of the young men are holy when it is an ordinary journey. How much more this day will the things be holy?"
He was content and abode with the man, and was unto him as one of his sons.
And Gideon said unto him, Oh my Lord, if the Lord be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where be all his signs which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah brought us up out of Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hand of the Midianites:
But if wickedly; let fire come out from him, and consume the inhabitants of Shechem, and the city of Mello: and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, from the city of Mello, and devour Abimelech;
Now between the narrow ways over the mountains by which Jonathan was making his way to the Philistines' forces, there was a sharp overhanging rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: one was called Bozez and the other Seneh.
Therefore he was debtors, in all things to be made like his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
In nothing therefore anxious, but in everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known unto God.
and to them in Aroer, and to them that are in Siphmoth, and to them that are in Eshtemoa
quenched power of fire, escaped edge of the sword, became strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, made hosts of strangers give way.
and in this passage again, 'They shall in no wise enter into my rest.'"
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, kept back before Jehovah; his name was Doeg, an Edomite; the terrible of runners. Saul's
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Herein Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in the one of the two.
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Behold, and see that is gone from us. And when they had sought, it was found that Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
After he left, his servants returned. And when they saw that the doors of the upper chamber were all safety, they thought, "Surely he is heart himself in the cool inner room."
They ran and got him there. And when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
For surely he careth not with angels, but he is careful with the children of Abraham.
Wherefore coming into the world he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou willedst not; but thou hast prepared me a body.
Jehovah dispossesseth, and He maketh rich; he layeth it low, yea, He maketh high.
and Saul seeth the host of the Philistines, and feared, and his heart trembleth greatly,
Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer: and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
When Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And Micaiah consecrated the Levites) and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the sons of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard with us, lest men bitter in soul fall upon you, and thou hast gathered thy life, and the life of thy household;'
And he said, 'Send me away; we pray thee, for our family sacrifice is in the city, and my brother commanded me to be present. Wherefore, if I have found favor in thy sight, I pray thee, let me creep away and see my brothers.' Therefore he hath not come to the table of king."
So Delilah said unto Samson, "Please tell me what maketh thy strength so great and with what canst thou be bound to subdue you?"
A man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh that same day, and his clothes rent and earth upon his head.
and another company turned the way to Beth-horon; and the other company turned the way to the district that looketh down upon the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place were sought for the second.
In the morning, Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a lad with him.
Therefore Saul said, "So may God do so to me, and more thou shalt surely die this day, Jonathan!"
And Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may take one vengeance upon the Philistines for my two eyes.
And Samuel said, Though thou mayest seem little to thyself, are ye not head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel,
The valley of Cison dragged their carcasses, the brook of Cadumim, the brook of Cisoii: tread thou, my soul, upon the strong ones.
And after him Abdon the son of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judged Israel.
For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And Ibzan died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And Samuel went to Ramath, and Saul went unto his house, to Gibeah of Saul.
Him therefore I hope to send immediately, so soon as I shall see how it shall go with me.
Then for. who is Gideon, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the well of Harod: so that the host of the Midianites were on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
which was a sign for the day, in which both the gifts and sacrifices which were offered could not perfect the worshipper with respect unto the conscience,
Now David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest, and Ahimelech came trembling to meet David, and he said unto him, "Why art thou alone and there are no men with you?"
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they smote the Canaanite that sitteth above Zephath, and destroy it; and called the name of the city Hormah.
To whom did he swear that they wouldn't enter into his relief, but to them that were disobedient?
And the men of the tribe of Judah said unto them, Why are ye come up against us? And they said, We are come to bind Samson, and to pay him for that which he hath done against us.
Then David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish, the king of Gath;
In that he saith precious fruits, new he hath made the first old; but that which groweth old and aged near disappearing.
And they ran and fetched him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
And he said unto them, The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed is witness against you this day, that ye have not found any thing in my hand. And they said, He is witness.
Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.
Whose voice then moved the earth: but now he promiseth, saying, Yet once more, and I will move not only the earth, but heaven also.
And the king said unto the messengers that stood about him: Return, and kill the priests of Jehovah, for their hand is with David, because they knew that he was fled, and they told it not unto me. And the king's servants would not put forth their hands against the priests of the Lord.
Now therefore thou at all better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab. did he at all strive with Israel? did he at all fight against them?
The number of them that lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was three hundred men; but all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
Gideon saw that he was Yahweh's angel; and Gideon said, "Alas, Lord Jehovah! Because I have seen Yahweh's angel face to face!"
See that ye refuse him not that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spake upon the earth, much more shall not we, that turn away from him that speaketh unto us from heaven.
For there was the fear of death in every city, and the hand of God was exceeding heavy. The men also that is not dead, were holden with the emerods: and the cry of every city went up to heaven.
How much more if the people had eaten of the prey of their enemies, which they found? had there not been made a greater slaughter among the Philistines?
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, "Why have ye beguiled me? For thou art Saul!"
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
Samuel said, "As thy sword hath made women childless, so thy mother shall be nakedness; among women!" Then Samuel cut Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father adjure the people: and he put forth the end of the rod, which he had in his hand, and dipt it in a honeycomb: and he carried his hand to his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
ye did subject all things under his feet. For in subjecting all things, he left nothing that was not subject unto him. But now we do not yet see all things subjected unto him,
Then Gideon son of Jehoash returned from the battle by way of the ascent of destruction.
As they came, when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing. to meet king Saul, with timbrels, and with joy, and with instruments of music.
Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
The men of Beth-shemesh said, "Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? To whom shall he go up from us?"
And forsake not doing good, and bounty, for God is pleased with such sacrifices.
And he said unto the men of Penuel, When I come back in peace, I will have this tower broken down.
Being called by God a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And he put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought great salvation for all Israel, Thou sawest it, and didst rejoice. Why therefore wilt thou sin against innocent blood by killing David, that is without fault?
And he had thirty sons, who went on thirty young asses: and they had thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which are named Jair unto this day.
Be ye imitators together of me, brethren, and set your eyes on them that walk thus as thou hast us for a model;
If I shall say unto the lad; Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them up; come thou unto me, because, there is peace be unto thee, and there is no evil, as Jehovah liveth. But if I shall speak thus unto the lad; Behold, the arrows are beyond thee: go in peace, for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
to them in Beth-el, and to them in south Ramoth and to them that are in Jattir,
And the first smiting which Jonathan and when his armorbearer have smitten is of about twenty men, in about half a furrow? of a yoke of a field,
Now are you anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab. Said he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight against them?
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, "See Zebah and Zalmunna; concerning whom thou defied me, saying, 'Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna; now in thy hand, that we should give bread to your men that are weary?'"
And the king said unto the footmen; that stood about him, Return, and slay the priests of Jehovah, because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not show it me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of the Lord.
And when the servants of David were come to Abigal to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to take thee unto him to wife.
But six hundred men turned and fled into the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and abode in the rock of Rimmon four months.
Yahweh's anger was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And the Philistines assembled themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is upon the sea-shore in multitude. And they came up and encamped in Michmash, eastward of Beth-aven.
And when they were come in, he seeth Eliab, and said, Is the Lord's anointed before him?
Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two wine-skins, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.
Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again, when he was cut off.
And Jehovah sent Jerubbaal and Bedan and Jephthah and Shemuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about, so that ye dwelt in safety.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel did not come up to Mizpah to the Lord? And it was seen that no man had come from Jabesh-gilead, to the meeting.
for in this were the elders testified of;
And when he showed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his house.
And Samuel told him all the words, and hath not hid from him; and he said, It Jehovah; that which is good in his eyes He doth.'
For the law, having a shadow of the good to come, not the very image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect them that draw near,
Let my lord the king hear ye the words of his servant. If it is Jehovah that setteth thee against me, let him take the offering: but if it is the children of men, may they be cursed before Jehovah, for putting me out to-day and keeping me from my place in the portion of Jehovah, saying, Go, be a servant of other gods.
And Jephte passed over to the children of Ammon, to fight against them: and Jehovah delivered them into his hands.
I have sent him therefore the more gladly, so that when ye see him again, ye may be happy and I may have the less sorrow.
Then they told Saul, saying, "Behold, the people are sinning against Jehovah, in that they eat bread with the blood." And he said, "You have dealt treacherously; Roll a great stone to me today!"
And he spake also to the men of Penuel, saying, In my backsliding in peace, I break down this tower.'
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, "What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?" They answered "Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried over to Gath." They bare the ark of the God of Israel there.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin in the presence of Israel, and the children of Israel destroyed on that day five and twenty thousand a hundred men of Benjamin, all of them sword-wielding.
And Micaiah said unto him, From whence comest thou?' and he saith unto him, A Levite I, of Beth-Lehem-Judah, and I go to sojourn where I do find.'
And when he was come to the city of on Amalek, and laid liers-in-wait in the river.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
not according to the covenant which I sware unto their fathers in the day that I brought them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt: because they continued not in my covenant; and I regard them not, saith Jehovah.
On the morrow Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote the children of Ammon until the heat of the day; They that remained were scattered, so that no two of them were left together.
Wheresoever they went forth, and the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had taken his oath it would be; and things became very hard for them.
And they sent messengers to all the tribe of Benjamin to say unto them, Why hath so great an abomination found among you?
And David called unto the people, and unto Abner the son of Ner, said, Dost thou not answer, Abner?' and Abner answered and said, Who thou hast called unto the king?'
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, they reported these things to the people. And all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And David inquired at the Lord, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Pursue: for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all.
and she put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen's hammers. With the hammer she smote Sisera. She smote through his head. Yea, she pierced and smote through his temples
that ye won't be sluggish, but ye imitators of them that through faith and patience inherited the gifts falsely.
And the olive saith unto them, Have I ceased from my fatness, whereby they honor gods and men, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
And Zebee and Salmana fled, and Gedeon pursued and took them, all their host being put in confusion.
but emptied himself, taking a bondman's waste standing in likeness of men;
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines for the space of a year and four months.
And Abimelech reigned over Israel for three years.
The Yahweh's Spirit came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah delivered Cushan Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia, into his hand. his hand prevailed against Cushan Rishathaim.
And he said unto them, "Yahweh is witness against you, and his anointed one is witness against you this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand." And they said, "He is witness."
Then they made a line round the tents, every man in his stead; and all the army, awoke from sleep, ran out, and with shouting fled.
So that even the first covenant was not made without blood.
Jonathan said unto David, "Come, and let us go out into the field." They both went out into the field.
and oh that this people were in my hand, then I turn Abimelech aside;' and he saith unto Abimelech; `Increase thy host, and come out.'
Behold, brethren, lest there should be in any one of you a wicked heart of their unbelief, in turning away from living God.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba, perceived that Samuel was faithful as a prophet unto Jehovah.
But at the time when of Saul, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, she was given to Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
I saw that ye would not deliver us; I hazarded mine own life, and I passed over to the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hand. Why hast thou come up to me this day to fight against me?"
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the mouth of things not seen.
And Ephraim did not make the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer go forth; but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Let us therefore fear, lest by any means, a promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you might seem to have failed [of it].
And he said unto her, "If they bind me straitly with new ropes that have not been used for; I will become weak and be like every one else."
Jonathan gave his weapons to his lad, and said unto him, "Go, carry them to the city."
Then let not my blood be poured out upon the earth away from the face of the Lord: for the king of Israel is come out to take my life, like that were able to go after birds in the mountains.
And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done unto the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
And there was war again. David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter: and they fled before him.
And he said unto Zebah and Zalmunna; "What figure were the men whom ye slew at Tabor?" And they said, "They were as you; each one of them had the appearance of the sons of the king."
So Saul said unto his servants, "Please look out a man that plays a harp, well and bring him to me."
And he went through the wilderness, and compasseth the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and cometh in at the rising of the sun of the land of Moab, and they encamped beyond the Arnon, and have not come into the border of Moab, for the Arnon is the border of Moab.
And Saul sweareth to her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, punishment doth not meet thee for this thing.'
while it is said, "Today, if ye hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion."
And they slew the bullock, and brought the child to Eli.
Then Gideon said unto God, "In order to see that ye will deliver Israel by my hand, even as thou hast said,
And Samuel said unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and let us restore the kingdom there.
Is it not wheat harvest to-day? I will call upon Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and ye shall know and see that ye yourselves have done a great evil in the sight of Jehovah, in asking a king over you.
Then David said, "Will the rulers of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?" And Jehovah said, "They will deliver you."
But Jehovah liveth, God of Israel, who hath kept me back from doing evil with thee, if thou hadst hasted, and shalt come to meet me, surely there had not been left to Nabal until the light of the morning, of them that sit on the wall.'
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and also the king that reigneth over thou art imitators of Jehovah thy God.
And Samuel said unto Saul: Jehovah sent me to anoint thee king over his people Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of Jehovah:
and it be so, and he rose up early on the morrow, and crushed the ones among and wringeth dew out of the fleece even the fulness of the bowl, of water.
Revile Meroz, saith the angel of Jehovah; Curse, curse the inhabitants thereof; For they came not to the help of Jehovah to the help of Jehovah among the mighty.
And when the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I looked after that which Amalek did unto Israel, that which he laid for him in the way in his going up out of Egypt.
And the people said unto Samuel, "Who is he that asked, 'Will Saul reign over us?' Give the men to us that we may kill them."
And Achis answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: but the princes of the Philistines said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Nabal answered David's servants, and said, "Who is David? Who is the son of Jesse: There are many servants that break away from their masters these days.
And the men of Israel going out of Mizpah pursued after the Philistines, and beat them until they came under Bethchar.
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem-judah named Jesse, that had eight sons; and he was an old man in Saul's day, and stricken in years.
And Adoni-Bezek fled, and they pursue after him, and take him: and cut off his thumb and his great toes,
And when the men of Israel saw that they were straitened, (for the people were distressed,) they hid themselves in the caves and in thickets, and in rocks, and in dens, and in destructions.
And all the masters of the tower of Shechem hear, and go in unto the high place of the house of the god Berith,
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, And I should not fail to sit with the king at bread: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
And why do ye harden thy heart as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? do they not even when he hath rolled himself upon them send them away, and they go?
each one of you not righteous looking to his own things, but each one of you also to the things of others.
Samuel answered Saul, and said, "I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for thou art to eat with me this day: In the morning I will let you go, and will tell you all that is in thy heart.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh or Beth-anath, but dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and Beth-anath, became burdens for them.
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not; for who can stretch forth his hand against the Lord's anointed, and be guiltless?
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these words. Then his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
and all the men of Israel, that are hiding themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, have heard that the Philistines have fled, and they pursue even they after them in battle.
These are the nations which Jehovah left, that by them he might instruct Israel, and all that had not known the Wars of Chanaanites:
And keep hold on him shall his father-in-law, father of the damsel, and he abideth with him three days, and they eat and drink, and lodge there.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchizedek met him.
So Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and the Lord remembered her.
And Samson saith of them, I am more innocent this time than the Philistines, although I do with them evil.'
Now if there were perfection through the Levites, priesthood (for under it the people have received the law), what further need was there for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek and not be called after the order of Aaron?
Neither is there any creature invisible in his sight: but not all things are naked and open unto his eyes, to whom our speech is.
But Jonathan had not heard when his father straitly sworn the people; and he put forth the end of his staff which was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes became bright.
Therefore they asked of Jehovah further, "Is there yet a man to come here?" Jehovah answered, "Behold, he hath hid himself among the baggage."
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing.
For, let this mind be in you, that also in Christ Jesus,
David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before them other cattle, and said, "This is David's plunder."
Therefore Saul and his men went to seek him, and it was told David, and straightway he went down to the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon; and when Saul had heard of it he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
Now this man went up from his city every year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And the princes of Gilead said one to another, Whosoever of us shall first begin to fight against the children of Ammon, he shall be the prince of the people of Gilead.
And let us consider one another, to provoke unto love and to good works;
receive him, therefore, in the Lord, with all joy, and hold such in honor,
So on that day he was called Jerub-Baal, which means, "Let Baal contend against him," because he had pulled out his altar.
So Gaal went out in the sight of the people of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech,
Then Manoah besought Jehovah, and said, "Oh, Jehovah, I pray thee, let the man of God whom ye sent come again to us, and teach us what we should do unto the child who shall be born."
And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What have I to do with thee, that thou hast come in unto me, to fight in my land.'
And the number of the days that David had dwelt in the field of the Philistines days and four months.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold were, and put them upon the great stone, and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
It had, indeed, then even the first court ordinances of service, also a worldly sanctuary,
And he set the torches on fire, and let run into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burned up both the shocks, and also the standing grain, and the olive herbs;
Then Jael Heber's wife, took a nail of the tent, and took an hammer in her hand, and went soft words unto him, and smote the nail into his palaces; and fastened it into the ground; for he was fast asleep and weary. So he died.
And Samuel said: Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray Jehovah for you.
More than that, I even consider all things to be loss by reason of the exceeding greatness of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for the sake of whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and consider them dung, in that I might gain Christ
Gilead's wife bare him sons. When his wife's sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out, and said unto him, "You shall not inherit in our father's house, for thou art the son of another woman."
And Aod put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly,
Then Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called the name Yahweh-shalom; unto this day it is in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And they were afflicted, and grievously oppressed for eighteen years, all they that dwelt beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, that is in Gilead,
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea-shore in multitude: and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Beth-aven.
And on the way he came to a place where sheep were bound: where was a hollow in the rock; and Saul went in for an inner purpose. Now David and his men were in the lowest parts of the hollow.
This is the thing that ye shall do: thou shalt utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain with a man."
Concerning whom we have much to say, and hard to be set forth in speaking [of it], since ye are become dull in hearing.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, which were taken away from you, whereof ye took an oath and said in my hearing, I have given this silver to the Lord from my hand for myself, to make a graven image and a molten image; see, I have the silver, for I took it: so now I will give it back to you. And his mother said, Let the blessing of Jehovah be upon my son.
And by faith the walls of Jericho came down, after they had been capital round seven days.
And David said, "O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath thy servant clearly heard that Saul is seeking to come to Keilah to destroy the city because of me.
And his father went down unto the woman, and Samson made a feast there; for so the young men used to do.
And he did great things, and prevailed against the Amalekites, and made Israel out of the hand of their adversaries.
Now Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Why should he be put to death? what hath he done?
Hear, O us: yea Give ear, O princes! I will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praise to Jehovah, the God of Israel.
He will take a tenth part of your seed and your vineyards and give it unto his high princes and to his servants.
(Beforetime in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, thus he spake, Come, and let us go to the seer. for he that is now called a prophet was beforetime called a Seer.)
And when the people were come down to the waters, Jehovah said unto Gedeon: They that shall lap the water with their tongues, as dogs are wont to lap, thou shalt set apart by themselves: but they that shall drink bowed down their knees, shall be on the other side.
And Gaal the son of Obed went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city. And Abimelech rose up, and all his army with him from the places of the ambushes.
Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the priests of Jehovah.
And Eli said unto her, How long are thou drunken? turn away thy wine from thee.'
And the Midianites and the Amalekite and all the children of the east lay along in the valley as grasshoppers, for multitude; and their camels were without number: as the sand by the sea side for multitude.
These do it from love, knowing that I am the charge of the cause of the gospel:
and all chastening for this time; indeed, doth not seem to be of joy, but of sorrow, yet afterward the peaceable fruit of righteousness to them exercised through it shall store.
And were now over against the house of Michas, the men that dwelt in the houses of Michas gathering together followed them,
Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death; for Samuel mourned for Saul; and Jehovah grieved that he had made Saul king over Israel.
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by the Lord that we will not give them of our daughters unto women?
In bitter hate I persecuted the church; I kept all the righteousness of the law to the last detail.
But his wife said unto him, "If Jehovah was minded to kill us he would not have taken from our hand the burnt-offering and the meal-offering thereof, or showed us all these things, or now announced unto us things such as these."
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest men chafed in their spirit run upon you, and thou lose thy life and the lives of thy household.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel: Behold, I do anything in Israel: and whosoever shall hear it, both his ears shall tingle.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother of Caleb, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And when David and his men came to the city; and they saw that it had been refined down, and their wives, and their sons, and daughters had been bindeth them.
For people swear by what is greater than themselves, and the oath for would be confirmed. is the end of all cause for them.
with doctrines manifold and strange be not carried about, for [it is] good that by grace the heart hath been confirmed, not with meats, wherein they that were traded were not profited;
And now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and rise up early in the morning, and when ye have day, depart.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
But only the high priest went into the second, once a year, not without doing sacrifice of blood for himself and for the remnant of the people:
So I have sworn unto the family of Eli that no oblation of food or of meal, which they may make will ever take away the sin of his own house.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter Merob, her will I give thee to wife: only is a mighty man, and fight the battles of Jehovah. Now Saul said within himself, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hands of the Philistines be upon him.
In thy going this day from me then shalt thou found two men by the grave of Rachel, in the border of Benjamin, at Zelzah, and they shall say unto thee, The asses were found which thou hast gone to seek: and, behold, thy father hath left the matter of the asses, and hath were made sorry for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do found: and, behold, when I come to without the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
chose rather to be ill-treated with the people of God rather than to see the passeth away enjoyment of sin,
seeing he was longing after you all, and in heaviness, because ye heard that he sick,
Then Saul waxed wroth with Jonathan and said unto him, "You son of a perverse rebellious woman. Do not I know that ye have chosen the son of Jesse unto thy shame and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And David said unto him, "To whom dost thou belong, and from where are ye? The young man said, "I am an Egyptian young man, a servant of an Amalekite man, but my master forsaken me, because I was fallen sick three days ago.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, till thou come to Gaza. They left no sustenance in Israel, and no sheep, ox, or ass,
for he was looking for the city having the foundations, whose artificer and constructor God.
Behold, all ye men of Israel, Make thy determinate counsel and counsel here."
And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast played upon me, and speakest unto me lies; now, tell me now me, wherewith thou art bound.'
For Kish begat Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was son of Abiel.
And most of the brethren in Jehovah, and brought heart because of my bonds, are all the stronger to give the word of God without fear.
and the proof of him ye know, that, as a child a father, with me he did serve in regard of the gospel.
Now David went to and fro from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpeh, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
There is none holy like Jehovah; for there is none besides you, and there is no rock like our God.
And Micaiah consecrated the Levites) and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin, their brother, and said, To-day is one tribe destroyed from Israel.
And Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-shalom. Unto this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the Abi-ezrites.
and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land,
And when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Why do ye kick at my sacrifice with at Mine oblation which I commanded My habitation, and shalt honor thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat from the first part of every oblation of Israel, of my people?
that the generations of Israel would know war, to teach them that had not enjoy it before):
For thy throne shall be empty till after to-morrow. So thou shalt go down quickly and come to the place, where thou must be hid in the day when it is lawful to work, and thou shalt remain beside the stone, which is called Ezel.
Her rival also afflicted her, and troubled her exceedingly, insomuch that she upbraided her, that Jehovah had shut up her womb;
And the men of the city say to him on the seventh day, before the sun goeth in: even What sweeter than honey? And what stronger than a lion?' And he saith unto them, `Unless ye had plowed with my heifer, Ye had not found out my riddle.'
The name of his first son was Joel and the name of his second Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
But he, because of his continuing for ever, hath the priesthood unchangeable.
Go and call upon the gods which ye have chosen: let them deliver you in the time of distress.
Unto you it hath been given in the cause of Christ not only to take refuge in him, but to should suffer on his account;
Behold, as thy life was precious in mine eyes this day, may my life be great in the eyes of Jehovah, and may he deliver me from all trouble."
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah been revealed unto him.
And the children of Israel served Eglon, king of Moab eighteen years.
Only that the generations of the children of Israel may know? to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof;
And Achish trusted David, saying, "He hath made himself utterly hated among his people in Israel, and he shall be my servant forever."
Then the angel of Jehovah put out the stick which was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the cakes with the end of it; and a flame came up out of the rock, and it shall devour the flesh and the cakes: and the angel of Jehovah was not found.
And it was right for this man to have more honor than Moses, even as build a house hath more honor than the house.
And let not the sin of thy servant be forgiven: for Jehovah will surely make thy family strong; because my lord fighteth in the Lord's war; and no evil shall be seen in you all your days.
But Samson's wife was given to his companion that had been his friend.
I will draw out Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and troops, unto the brook of Kishon, and I will give him into your hand.'"
"But the fig tree said unto them, 'Should I leave my sweet wine, and my good fruit, and go to wave to and fro over the trees?'
The mountains quaked Yahweh's presence, even Sinai at the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpeh, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Bethcar.
And the sons of Benjamin number themselves on that day: out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, apart from the inhabitants of Gibeah, numbered themselves, seven hundred chosen men:
And Saul said unto his servants, Appoint for me then some man that can play well, and bring him to me.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, when Ehud, was dead.
And the man of thine I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to cause thine eyes to fail and to grieve thy soul; and all the increase of thy house shall die in their strength.
Six hundred men out of the family of the Danites from Zorah, and Eshtaol, armed with weapons of war, journeyed from there.
"In the days of Shamgar the son of Beth-anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were without inhabitant. The travelers walked through byways.
And by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid for three months by his parents, because they saw the child was handsome, and they were not afraid of the writing of the king.
Therefore Saul cast the spear at him to smite him; and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to slain David.
And David said unto Saul, "Let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine."
And now is it true, as they have said unto me, that Saul is coming? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hear thy servant, and say if these things are so. And Jehovah said, He is coming down.
And Jehovah will render to every one according to his righteousness, and his faithfulness; for Jehovah hath delivered thee this day into my hand, and I would not put forth my hand against the Lord's anointed.
And the trees say to the vine, Come thou, reign over us.
And Saul heard that David was seen, and the men that were with him. Now while Saul abode in Geba and was in the wood, which is by Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him,
And she fell at his feet, and said, "On me, my lord, on me be the blame! Let thy servant, I speak in your ears. Hear ye the words of thy servant.
And the king said, "Inquire whose son the young man is!"
and when he was in the form of God, thought not robbery to be equal unto God,
And Sisara said unto her, Stand before the door of the Tent, and when any shall come and inquire of thee, saying, Is there any man here? thou shalt say, There is none.
And when he was tidings of this, sent other men, who in like manner became as prophets. And a third time Saul sent men, and they like the others became as prophets.
And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart; and all they signs happened that day.
being filled with the fruit of righteousness which cometh through Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God.
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, and not apprise me; and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a Benjamite, a mighty man of valor.
And if I live, thou shalt show me the kindness of Jehovah; But if I die,
For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come.
Accounting that God is able to raise up even from the dead. And he received him for a parable:
And the king said unto her, Fear not: what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
And his servant-wife was wroth with him, and went away from him to her father's house at Beth-lehem-judah and was there for four, months.
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and prosper over David doth the Spirit of Jehovah from that day and onwards; and Samuel arose, and went to Ramath.
And when the spirit from God was upon Saul, David took the harp and played with his hand; so Saul was Yea, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
And Samson goeth and snatcheth three hundred foxes, and took torches; and turneth tail unto tail, and put a flaming torch between the two tails: in the midst,
And Abigail hasted, and took two hundred loaves, and two wine-skins, and five sheep, prepared, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred clusters of figs, and setteth on the asses.
When the Philistine, looked and saw David, he despised him; for he was only young and ruddy with a goodly vision.
And so, by persevering, he obtained promise.
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of the king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him: for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
Now therefore, take heed, I pray thee, and shall not drink wine, and strong drink, and do not eat any unclean thing,
There is indeed a set aside of the former commandment, because of the infirmity and unprofitableness thereof:
And the priest said unto David, saying, I have no common bread at hand, but only showbread, if the young men be clean; especially from women?
And the men of Beth-shemesh say, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and unto whom will he go up from us?'
And they said, "What is the trespass-offering that we should return to him?" And they said, "The number of the rulers of the Philistines is five. Therefore send five gold emerods, and five gold mice, for one plague was upon all of you and all your rulers.
For I know that this shall fall out to me for salvation through your supplication, and the staff of the Spirit of Christ Jesus,
And ye shall say, Peace be unto my brethren, and to thee, and peace to thy house, and peace to all that thou hast.
and they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and now, deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we serve thee.
And the peace of God, which is deeper than all knowledge, will keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste ye, and come, for the Philistines have brought against the land.'
and Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp of thy brethren;
And every time Achish said, Where hast thou been rebellious to-day? David said, Against the South of Judah and the South of the Jerahmeelites and the South of the Kenites.
nothing in faction or vain-glory, but in meekness of mind one another thou numberest more value than your souls; it is
And Saul took him on that day, and hath not lawful him to turn back to the house of his father.
When Gideon came, a man was telling a dream to his friend, and he said, "Behold, I had a dream; a loaf of barley bread was tumbling into the camp of Midian, and it came up to the tent, it smote it, and it fell and turned it upside down so that the tent fell."
Then Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, "Where didst thou go?" And he said, "To search for the female asses therewith; and when we saw none, we went to Samuel."
So the priest delivered him the showbread, for there was no bread there, save the bread of the Presence, which was removed from before Jehovah, in order to set hot bread there on the day when it was taken away.
And Caleb said, "Whoever that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as a wife."
The princes of the Philistines had gathered to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their god and to rejoice. And they said, "Our god hath given Samson our enemy into our hand."
And Saul took him that day, and would not return unto his father's house.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And the angel of Jehovah came and sat under the oak which in Ophrah, which to Joash the Abi-Ezrite, and Gideon his son is beating out wheat in the winepress to remove from the presence of the Midianites:
The Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man became as one of his sons.
For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast, and every transgression and transgression received a just recompense of reward:
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are in Philippi, with overseers and God,
And divers washings, and righteous deeds of the flesh laid upon them until the time of correction.
But it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul's daughter should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
And Samuel died; and all the children of Israel were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah: And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead, and he made war with Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim because they said, "You are outcasts of Ephraim, thou Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh."
And they went up into the city. And when they were walking in the midst of the city, behold, Samuel was coming out over against them, to go up to the high place.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
And if to dwell in the flesh, this is unto me the fruit of labor, and what I shall choose I know not.
the which an image for this present season: according to which both gifts and sacrifices, not able to perfect, as to conscience him that worshipped, your oblations,
So the army sent to Shiloh and brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts that sitteth above the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they smote the Canaanites that dwelt Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Thou seest that I have heard everything ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
But Ehud, made him a dagger which had two ends thereof, of a cubit length; and he did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh:
And he took all the flocks and the herds, and made them go before him: and they said, This is the prey of David.
for this young man I prayed, and Jehovah shall give me my petition which I asked of him.
And I will keep no more remembrance of their sins and of their evil-doings.
Yahweh's Spirit began to move him in Mahaneh Dan, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And he said, My brethren, sons of my mother, they; As Jehovah liveth, if ye had kept them alive I had not slain you.'
Then said he unto all Israel, "You be on the one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side." And the people said unto Saul, "Do what shall seem good unto you."
And the king said, and inquire thou, whose son this man is.
Now Jonathan answered and Saul his father, said, Why shall he died; what hath he done?
For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity; But the word of the oath which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated for evermore.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And in this place again, If they shall enter into my rest.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtake them; and them that came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
They are went up by the ascent of the city, and have found young women going out to draw water, and say unto them, Is the seer in this ?'
And David said unto Achish, Therefore thou shalt know that which thy servant shalt do.' And Achish said unto David, Therefore keeper of my head I will prepare thee all the days.'
and Midian, and Amalek, and all the sons of the east are lying in the valley, as the locust for multitude; and of their camels there is no number, as the sand that is upon the sea-shore for multitude.
And he shall take your fields, and your vineyards and your best oliveyards, and give them unto his servants.
Then David asked Jehovah again, and Jehovah answered and said, Arise, and go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into your hand.
For he did not make the angels rulers over the world to come of which I am not.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah unto the people that are asking from him a king,
When he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first covenant old. But whatsoever is rising old and past use shall not be seen much longer.
And being angry I made an oath, saying, They shall not enter into my rest.
Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more;
It is no more my pleasure for Saul to be king; for he is turned back from going in my ways, and hath not done my precepts. And Samuel was exceeding sorrowful; crying to Jehovah in prayer all night.
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And Zebah and Zalmunna; fled away; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna; and put all the host to the curse.
And as Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines advanced to battle against Israel. And Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were put to the worse before Israel.
fastening our eyes on Jesus, the Prince and perfecter of faith, that for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, disregarding the shame, and hath sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And so did he year after year; when she went up to the house of Jehovah, and she would provoke her so that she would weep and would not eat.
Then say unto him, 'Long life unto you, and it shall be well with thee, and thy house, and with all that is yours.
Then the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up to you?" And he said, "Bring Samuel up for me."
I beseech Euodias and Syntyche to be of the same mind in the Lord.
And when the children of Israel went out the next day to fight against the children of Benjamin,
And treading Benjamin down, they went after them, driving them from Nohah as far as the east side of Gibeah.
Wherefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah restrained you from bloodguiltiness by being matters into your own hand, so then shall thine enemies be like Nabal, even them that seek to do my lord harm.
And when Saul saw David went out against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, On your life, O king, I have no idea.
And he went and caught three hundred foxes, and coupled them tail to tail, and fastened torches between the tails:
And afterward, David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
Jehovah looked upon him, and said, "Go in this thy might, and save Israel from the hand of Midian. Haven't I sent you?"
And he came to Soccoth and said unto them, Behold, Zebee and Salmana, concerning whom ye upbraided me, saying, Peradventure the hands of Zebee and Salmana, are in thy hands, and therefore thou askest that we should give bread to the men that are weary and faint.
And the me, unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon?
And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore restore them lands again peaceably.
A man of Benjamin ran out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head: with
And David went out to whatsoever matter Saul sent him, and he behaved himself prudently: and Saul set him over the soldiers, and he was acceptable in the sight of all the people, and especially in the sight of Saul's servants.
Micah said unto him, "Dwell with me, and be my father and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver per year, a suit of clothing, and your food." So the Levite went in.
And Abimelech the son of Jerobaal went to Shechem to his mother's brethren and spake unto them, and to all the families of his mother's father, saying,
Deliver up the men of Geba, that have committed this heinous villany, O that they may die, and the evil may be taken away out of Israel. But they would not hearken unto the showbread, of their brethren the children of Israel:
And Gideon said unto God, If Thou art Saviour of Israel by my hand, according as thou hast spoken,
And now, hearken unto their voice; only, surely thou shalt surely protest unto them, and hast declared unto them the custom of the king that shall reign over them.'
After him Elon the Zebulunites judged Israel, and he judged Israel ten years.
and the handle also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the sickle; for he didn't draw the sword out of his loins and it came out behind.
So get up early in the morning, with the servants of your lord that are with you, and go unto the place I have given you, and have no wicked device, in thy heart, for thou art good in my eyes; But when there is light enough in the morning, go away.
I know both how to be base and I know how to abound; In everything and in all things I am sent darkness, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer privation.
So Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and he went with two of his men. And they came to the woman by night, and he said, "Please inquire of a spirit for me through the ritual pit, and bring up for me the one whom I tell you."
And the war was sore against the Philistines all the days of Saul; when Saul hath seen any mighty man, and any son of valor, then he shall gather him unto himself.
And Abimelech with his band made a rush, and encamped at the door of the city: and the other two bands made a leap upon all them that were in the fields, and prevailed against them.
And Saul is called, and all the people that were with him, and they came to the battle, and, lo, the sword of a man shall be against his neighbor with a very great destruction.
And he said, "What is the message which he spake unto you? we beseech thee, hide it not from me: may God punish you sore if thou conceal anything from me of all the words that he told you."
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all knowledge;
Thy princes, Issachar, were with Deborah; and Naphtali was true to Barak; into the valley they rushed out at his feet. In Reuben there were divisions, and great searchings of heart.
and to them that are in Rachal, and to them in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them in the cities of the Kenite,
Every one that hath passed away Moses' law dieth without mercy on [the testimony of] two or three witnesses:
and the Philistines take the ark of God and bring it into the house of Dagon, and set it near Dagon.
Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the bed be undefiled; but God will judge the not lascivious and adulterers.
And when he saw David go out against the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the host, "Abner, whose son is this youth?" Abner said, "As thy soul liveth, O king, I can't tell."
And he consulted Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
For they thought to cut them off, as aforetime. But they artfully feigned a away, that he hath purposed to draw them away from the city, and by their seeming to flee to bring them to the highways aforesaid.
When the Philistine, looked about, and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and had a good looking face.
Barak said unto her, "If thou shalt go with me, and I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go."
And it came to pass, when the Philistine, arose, and came, and drew nigh to meet David, that David was hastening, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.
if he be able to fight with me, and have smitten me, then we shall be to you for servants; and if I am able for him, and smote him, then ye shall be to us for servants, and have served us.'
Then Zebah and Zalmunna; said, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna; and took away the ornaments that were on their camels' necks
And by faith they passed through the Red Sea as through dry land; of which the Egyptians having made trial were swallowed up?
And by faith Rahab the harlot perished not with the unbelieving, receiving the spies with peace.
Then Samuel sent for the people to come together before Jehovah at Mizpah,
Now I know God will do me good, since I have a priest, of the house of the Levites.
that by them I may prove Israel, to see if they will keep the Yahweh's way to walk therein, as their fathers kept it, or not."
And David said, What have I done now? was it not only a word?
Let my lord obey not Nabal, that good-for-nothing: for as his name is, even so is he, a man without mind: yet thy servant did not see the young men whom my lord sent.
And the men of Ephraim were called together, and passed over northward; and said unto Jephthah, why didst thou pass over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? We will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And Ehud, came unto him; now he was sitting in the cool upper-chamber, which was for him alone. And Ehud, said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose from the seat:
Then Samuel taking Saul and his servant, brought them into the parlour, and gave them a place at the head of them that were invited. For there were about thirty men.
All the border of the Amorites was theirs, from the Arnon as far as the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and if ye rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then will the hand of Jehovah be against you, as against your fathers.
And there came forth a champion from the host of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines,
In like manner, the house of Joseph went up against Beth-el, and Jehovah was with them.
Therefore Saul and all the people that were with him were assembled on command and came up to the battle, and behold, every one Philistine's sword was against his friend. And there was a very great confusion.
for we have not here an abiding city, but the coming one we seek:
Wherefore then hast thou not obey the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly down upon the spoil, and didst evil in the sight of the Lord?
That he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I have been a Nazirite unto God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength shall go from me, and I shall become weak, and be like any other man.
And he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they found them not: then they passed through the land of Shalim, and there they were not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.
Pray for us; for we persuade ourselves that we have a good conscience; in all things desirous to walk judged.
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
"Most blessed of women is Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite; most blessed is she of women among tent dwellers.
Because of the voice of them that divide [the spoil] in the midst of the places of drew water; There they rehearse the righteous acts of Jehovah, his righteous deeds toward his villages in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.
And he took thereof in his hands, and went on eating, and came to his father and mother, and he gave them, and they did eat: but he told not them that he had taken the honey out of the carcass of the lion.
And again, the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
The raiders came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned to the way, that leadeth to Ophrah, to the land of Shual;
And Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou wilt surely give the children of Ammon into my hand,
But the people would not hear the voice of Samuel, and they said, Nay; but there shall be a king over us.
And Achish answered and said unto David, "I know that ye are good in mine eyes, like an angel of God! But the captains of the Philistines have said, 'He shall not go up with us into the battle.'
And they journeyed from thence he went to the inhabitants of Debir: now the ancient name of which was Kiriath-sepher, that is, the city of letters.
By so much is it a better covenant which we have through Jesus.
Now therefore I pray thee, let my lord the king hearken unto the words of his servant: If Jehovah hath movedst thee against me, may he delight in an offering: but if it is man, may they be devoted before Jehovah, for they have driven me away this day from be received the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, 'Go, serve other gods!'
Now there arose after Abimelech, to save Israel, Tola, son of Puah, son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, and he dwelt in Shamir, in the hill-country of Ephraim,
Achish said, "Against whom hast thou made a raid today?" David said, "Against the South of Judah, against the South of the Jerahmeelites, and against the South of the Kenites."
And they laid the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer with the golden mice and the images of their sores.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, ye shall offer unto me whatsoever thou hast promised, since the victory shall be granted unto thee, and avenge of thine enemies.
He sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, with a goodly face and good anger: Jehovah said, "Arise! Anoint him, for this is he."
And they find out of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins that have not known man by lying with a male, and they bring them in unto the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Jephte also said unto them, If ye be come to me uprightly that I should fight for you against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah will deliver them into my band, shall I be your prince?
And David came to Saul, and stood before him; and he loved him greatly; and he became his armour-bearer.
So let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah: but let them that love thee shine, as the sun shineth in his rising.
so I sware in mine anger, If they shall enter into my rest; !')
And so, as thy life was dear unto me this day, may my life be dear unto Jehovah, and may he make me from all my troubles.
And the Philistines shall be brought low, and have not again any more come into the border of Israel, and the hand of Jehovah is upon the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah because of Midian,
And he said unto him, Behold now, a man of God is in this city, and the man is held in honor; all that he saith cometh surely to pass. Let us now go thither; peradventure he will show us the way that we should go.
Then Gideon said unto God, Do not be kindled against me if I say only this: let me make one more prove with the wool; let the wool now be dry, while the earth is covered with dew.
But a certain terrible expectation of judgment and a wrath of fire that is about to consume the adversaries.
And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was in great trouble, and said unto him, Behold now, thy servant hath heard your words, and I have put my life in danger by doing what ye said.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah because of Midian,
So Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them to a chamber in the building and gave them a place at the head of the bidden guests. There were about thirty men.
And Eliab his elder brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Wherefore wentest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left them few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy, and the stubbornness of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.
Then the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah and the chest wherein were the gold images, and put them upon the great stone, and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and gave worship that day before Jehovah.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, "Blessed is Jehovah, who hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil. Jehovah hath returned the evildoing of Nabal upon his own head." David sent and spake concerning Abigal to take her to be his wife.
For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
Then her husband arose, and followed her, with the purpose of spake kindly unto her, and taking her back with him; he had with him his young man and two asses: and she took him into her father's house, and her father, when he saw him, came near to him with joy.
And there was trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the ravagers, they also trembled, and the earth trembled, for it was a trembling God.
And by faith also Sarah herself received power to conceive seed, and she bare after the time of life, seeing she did judge him faithful that did promise),
Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was assembled as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
Then said Saul unto David, "You are blessed, my son David. Thou wilt both do valiantly: and will surely prevail." So David went his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And Adoni-Bezek said, Seventy kings, with their thumb and their great toe cut off, gleaned under my table. as I have done, so God hath recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
So Jephthah passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hands.
Ask thy young men, and they will tell thee: therefore let the young men find favor in your eyes, for we come upon a good day. I pray you, give whatsoever cometh to thy hand, unto thy servants, and to thy son David.'"
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
What ye have both learned: and received, and heard, and seen in me, these things do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
And he himself also stripped off his clothes, and prophesied, himself also, before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day, and all the night; Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And Gedeon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents, on the east of Nobe and Jogbehah, and smote the camp of the enemies, that were therein; yea, surmised that no hurt.
because of this do ye also rejoice and joy with me.
And Saul saw that he prospered well, and he stood in awe of him.
And now what is under thy hand? give me five loaves in my hand, or what may be found.
so that my bonds, in Christ is become known in the whole Praetorium, and to all the rest,
This shall not be an occasion of grief to thee, and a scruple of heart to my lord, that thou hast shed innocent blood, Or hast revenged thyself; And when Jehovah have dealt with my lord, thou shalt remember thy handmaid.
Then the evil spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul while he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand. And David was playing a harp, in his hand.
It was for them in Beth-el, for them in Ramoth of the South: for them that are in Jattir,
to the congregation and assembly of the first-born in heaven written, and unto God the judge of all, and to spirits of righteous men perfected;
But I have received all that is in full and have an abundance; I am well supplied because I received of Epaphroditus what ye had sent, a sweet oblation, an acceptable sacrifice, well-pleasing unto God.
And he was very thirsty, and he called unto Jehovah, and said, "You gave this great victory into the hand of thy servant, but now I must die of thirst and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?"
And the things which thou hast learned and received and heard of and seen in me, practise these things, and the God of peace shall be with you.
wherefore lift up the hands that hang down and the feeble knees,
This being told to Jotham, he went in, and stood on the top of mount Garizim: and lifted up his voice, and he cried, and said, Hear me, ye men of Shechem, so may God hear thee.
and hath smote into the pan, or pot, or caldron, or pot; all that the hook bringeth up the priest shall take for himself; thus they do unto all Israel, that came in, there, in Shiloh.
If there be therefore any exhortation in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tender mercies and compassion,
David said furthermore ye As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah shall smite him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall descend into battle, and perish.
holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
and thou shalt hear what they cry; and afterward shall thy hand be strong, and thou shalt go down unto the camp. And he went down with Phurah his servant to the outside of the armed men that were in the camp.
Now Saul was in the mount of Hakilah, which is over against Jeshimon by the way side, but David tarried in the wilderness. And when he knew that he was come to the wilderness after him,
The lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, "Entice him, and see in which his great strength lies, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will each give you eleven hundred pieces of silver."
Then said Saul unto Achias: Bring the ark of Jehovah. (for the ark of God was there that day with the children of Israel.
And the princes of the Philistines said unto Achis: What mean these Hebrews? And Achis said unto the princes of the Philistines: Know ye not David, who was the servant of Saul the king of Israel, and hath been with me many days, or years, and I have found no crime in him, since the day that he fled over to me unto this day?
And when he was come to his house, he saddled his knife; and took the woman, cutting her up bone by bone into twelve parts, which he sent through all Israel.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the coffer that was with it, in which were the golden jewels, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
And they said, "Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good. Know ye stand still? Don't be sluggard to go and to go in to possess the land.
Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock Etam, and said unto Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
Then Jonathan said unto David, "Whatever thy soul desireth, I will do it for you."
And the blood was put on the tent and all the holy vessels in like manner.
But unto which of the angels said he at any time: Sit thou on my right hand, Till I make thine enemies underneath thy feet?
Who were the left in able to send a stone at a hair without error.
But the man would not be kept there that night, and he arose, and went away and came over against Jebus (which is Jerusalem); and he had with him the two asses, ready for travelling, and his woman.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And now hearken unto their voice; only, testify unto them, and declare unto them the law of the king that shall reign over them.
and they crush and oppress the children of Israel in that year even eighteen years all the children of Israel are beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which in Gilead.
My heart will be glad in Jehovah, and my horn shall be exalted in my God: my mouth is enlarged over my enemies; because I have joy in thy salvation.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; for they didn't continue in my covenant, and I passed away them," saith Jehovah.
And David said to Abner: Art thou not a man? and who is like thee in Israel? why then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in to kill the king thy lord.
And they said, Thou hast not advantage of us, and thou hast not smitten, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a saviour, for them, Ehud, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left-handed man. And the children of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon, the king of Moab.
Call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do; thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name to you."
And she made a vow, saying, O Jehovah, of hosts, if thou wilt despise the affliction of thy servant, and wilt be mindful of me, and not forget thy handmaid, and wilt give unto thy servant a man-child, I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life; and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And Saul went back, and did not pursue after the Philistines; and the Philistines came to their own places.
Moreover David took also Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were both of them his wives.
And there is a certain man of Ramathaim-Zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, son of Tohu, son of Zuph, and Ephrathite,
When Abigail saw David, she made haste, and alighted from the ass, and fell on her face before David's anger, and she bowed down to the ground.
as to the thing which we have spoken, I and thou, behold, Jehovah between me and thee even unto the age.'
Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of Benjamin that day five and twenty thousand a hundred men. All these drew the sword.
And Saul sent messengers to seize David, but she said, "He is ill."
and [he will take them] that he may appoint for himself captains of thousands and captains of fifties, and that they may plow his ground, and reap his harvest, and make his weapon and instruments of his chariots.
And he said unto them, "Why doest thou these things? for I hear of your evil dealings from all this people.
And it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, Now God hath given him into my hands; for by going into a fortified city with shut doors, he hath let himself be shut in.
So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And when the ark of God came to Ekron, the people of the city made an and clamor, saying, They have sent the ark of the God of Israel to us for the destruction of us and of our people.
And they passed from thence unto the hill-country of Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
And by faith Abraham, when he was called to go forth into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
And he went up from thence to Penuel, and spake to them likewise. And the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered.
And David perceived that Saul secretly exercised mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, bring hither the ephod.
seeing that would they not have ceased offered, because of that served having no more conscience of sins, having once been purified?
Beware against dogs, against the workers of iniquity; against those of the circumcision,
And they said unto the messengers that was come, "Thus ye shall say unto the men of Jabesh Gilead: 'Tomorrow deliverance for thou shalt come when the sun is hot.'" When the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh, they rejoiced.
And when Saul inquired of the Lord, Jehovah answered him not, neither by the dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
and to them that are in Hormah, and to them that are in Chor-Ashan, and to them that are in Athach,
Saul was thirty years old when he began to reign; and he reigned over Israel forty and two years.
And Manasseh drove not out Beth-shean and its towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns thereof: and the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And Saul abode at the uttermost part of Gibeah under the pomegranate-tree which in Migron; and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
The Holy Spirit also testifieth unto us, for after saying,
And they said unto him, We are come to bind thee and to deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me, and promise me, that thou wilt not kill me.
Jehovah killeth, and maketh alive; he hath brought down to Sheol, and brought up.
God's ark was taken: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul will despair concerning me to seek me any more in all the border of Israel, and I shall be delivered out of his hand.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken afterward of another day.
And by faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
Jehovah sent a prophet to the children of Israel; and he said unto them, "Yahweh saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, 'I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you out of the house of bondage.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David. And Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to slay thee; and now, I pray thee, take heed to thyself in the morning, and abide in the covert and hide thyself.
Into thy hand that God hath given the heads of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, what have I been able to do like you?' Then their angry desisted from off him in his speaking this thing.
Shall I then take away my bread, and my water, and the flesh of my cattle, which I have killed for my sheep-shearers; and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
And it came to pass that, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And it came to pass, while Saul spake unto the priest, that the noise which in the camp of the Philistines grew greater and greater; for Saul said unto the priest, Depart thy hand.'
So all the trees said unto the thornbush, 'You, come rule over us.'
Samuel told him every bit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, "It is Jehovah; let him do that which seemeth him."
Now David had said, What was the use of my keepers of this man's goods in the wilderness, so that there was no loss of anything that was him? he hath only given me evil for good.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and serve the Baalim,
Howbeit I will not altogether take away a man of thee from mine altar; but that thy eyes may faint and thy soul be presented and a great part of thy house shall die when they come to man's estate.
And they gave him part of a cake of figs, and some dry grapes; and after the food, his spirit came back to him, for he had did neither eat bread, nor drink three days and nights.
And Jephthah sent again to the king of the children of Ammon,
And David said to Abigail: Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, that sent thee this day to help me, and blessed be thy speech:
By that pleasure we have been made holy, by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for ever.
And the servants of Achis, when they saw David, said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not sing unto him in their dances, saying, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And David also rose up after him, and went out of the cave cried after Saul saying, My lord the king. And Saul looked behind him, and David worshipping down to the ground, worshipped;
Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of the Lord: for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one hunteth the partridge in the mountains.
And Jehovah said unto him, "Peace be with you. Do not therefore: ye will not die."
The men of Ephraim were called to arms; and they passed over to Zaphon and said unto Jephthah, "Why did ye pass over and make war against the children of Ammon, and why didst thou not call us to go with you? We will burn down thy house over you with fire."
If thy father should actually miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beth-lehem his city; for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the house.
And one answered another, saying, And who is their father? therefore it became a time, saying, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves armed against Gibeah as beforetime.
even as it is written, To-day, oh that ye would let his voice ye hear, be not hard of heart, as when thou hast made him wroth.
Then they found an Egyptian in the fields, and brought him to David, and they gave him victuals and he did eat: they also gave him water.
They cut off his head, stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings unto the house of their idols, and to the people.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and not one of his words fell to the ground.
and not that he can offer himself often, as the high priest goeth into the sanctuary year by year with blood not his own,
And your seed and your vineyards shall he tithe, and hath given his eunuchs, and to his servants.
For ye both sympathised with prisoners and accepted with joy the spoil of your goods, knowing that ye have you a better substance, and an abiding one.
After which David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the skirts of Saul's robe.
for he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great victory for all Israel: thou saw it, and rejoiced. Why then will ye sin against innocent blood, to kill David without a cause?"
Saul said unto the Kenite, "Go, depart, go down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy thee with them; for thou showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt." So the Kenites departed from among the Amalek.
Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail. This woman was discreet and had a fair face; But the man was surly and evil in his doings. He was of the house of Caleb,
Saul sent to Jesse, saying, "Please let David stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight."
When I blow the trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and shout, 'For Jehovah and for Gideon!'"
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpah, and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard this, they were afraid of the Philistines.
And Samuel said unto him, What hast thou done? Saul answered, Because I saw that the people slipt from me, and thou wast not come according to the days appointed, and the Philistines were gathered together in Michmas,
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
We desire that each one of you may show the same diligence to the fulness of hope even unto the end,
And there is a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name Micah,
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead, four hundred young virgins that had not known with a man, and brought them unto the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And again the Lord said, Samuel. And Samuel arose, and went to Eli and said, Here am I; for thou surely said my name. And he answered, I said nothing, my son; go unto thy rest again.
And Samuel said, Bring ye near unto me Agag the king of Amalek. And Agag came to him gaily. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is passed away.
There was a certain Levite, who dwelt on the side of the hill-country of Ephraim, who took a wife of Beth-lehem Judah:
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And he rose early in the morning, on the fifth day to go, and the father of the damsel, said, `Support, I pray thee, thy heart;' and they have tarried until the turning of the day, and they eat, both of them.
Therefore he is a mediator of a new covenant; since a death hath a contention for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, that they that have been called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
and go forth into the field, and gather their vineyards, and thresh, and make praises, and go into the house of their gods, and eat and drink, and curse Abimelech;
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, "We have sinned. Know ye to it seemeth good unto you; but deliver us, we pray thee, today."
Now therefore if thou have anything at hand, though it were but five loaves, give me, or whatsoever thou canst find.
And ye are risen up against my father's house, and have killed his sons seventy men upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his handmaid king over the inhabitants of Shechem, because he is thy brother:
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will show ourselves unto them.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I passed over the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; because I have feared the people, I also hearken unto their voice;
But a certain terrible seeking of justice, and fiery zeal, about to devour the opposers;
Fear not; for the hand of my father Saul shall not find thee, and thou shalt reign over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; yea, and my father knoweth this.
And they make a covenant both of them before Jehovah: and David abideth in the forest, and Jonathan hath gone to his house.
For such a chief priest did become us kind, innocent. undefiled, separate from the sinners, and become higher than the heavens,
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not rebelled against the commandment of Jehovah: then shall both you, and the king that reigned over you, be imitators of Jehovah your God.
And the servant-wife he had in Shechem had a son of him, and he called his name Abimelech;
The men of Israel had sworn at Mizpah, saying, "None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin as a wife."
Wherefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, I said indeed, thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me for ever. But now Jehovah said, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be abject.
that same night, And Jehovah said unto him, "Take your father's bullock, even the second bullock seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah, that is by it.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us: when Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
So that we may confidently say, Jehovah will help me; I will not be afraid; What man shall do unto me.
while it is said, "Today if ye will hear his voice, don't harden your hearts in the rebellion."
And he went unto his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of for. being threescore and ten persons, upon one stone; nevertheless yet Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt: and they followed foreign gods, and the gods of the people that dwelt round about them, and they worshipped them: and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
For God is my witness how I long after you all in bowels of Christ Jesus.
For in that, wherein he himself hath suffered and been tempted, he is able to succor them also that are tempted.
not that forsake the gathering together of ourselves together, as a custom of certain so, but exhorting, and so much the more as ye see the day coming nigh.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
Now Jonathan answered Saul, `David hath been earnestly asked of me unto Beth-lehem,
And he said, Behold, I am come to do thy delight: And he took away the old order, so that he might put the new commandment in its place.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."
And Ehud, escaped while they delayed. He passed by the figured stones, and escaped alone to Seirah.
Then Zebul said unto him, Now where is thy loud talk when ye said, Who is Abimelech that we are to be his servants, Is not this the people whom ye were rating so are perplexed, Go out now, and make war upon them.
And the Philistines have taken the ark of God, and bring it in from Eben-Ezer unto Ashdod,
But Saul, inquired of God, saying, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he gave him no answer that day.
If the man said unto him, "Let the fat be burned first, and then take as much as thy soul desires"; then he would say, "No, but thou shalt give it unto me now; and if not, I will take it by force."
David asked Ahimelech, "Is there not at thy me a spear or a sword? For I took neither my sword nor my weapons with me because the king's matter was urgent."
And the people sent to Shiloh, and they take up from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, that sittest above the cherubim, and there two sons of Eli, with the ark of the covenant of God, Hophni and Phinehas.
And it came to pass at his all, making the ark of God, that he falleth from off the throne backward, by the side of the gate, and his neck is broken, and he died, for the man old and heavy, and he hath judged Israel forty years.
And she put it before Saul and his servants, and they did eat. And they arose, and went away the same night.
And (as it may be said, even Levi who received tithes, paid tithes in Abraham:
And when his servants said these words to David, that he was well pleased to be the son-in-law of the king. And the days were yet not past.
And the angel of Jehovah came and sat under the oak that was at Ophrah, that pertained to Jehoash, the Abiezrite; and Gideon his son was threshing wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites:
And so, after he had patiently endured: he obtained promise.
For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe, of which no man gave attendance at the altar.
David went from thence and escaped alone to the cave of Adullam. When his brethren, and all his father's household heard, they came down to him there.
Then the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass, after they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.
I pray you, don't go away, until I come unto you, and bring forth my present, and lay it before you." And he said, "I will tarry till ye come back."
For ye are not come unto the mount that might be handled, and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at the other times before, and shake myself. And he knew not that Jehovah was departed from him.
And the golden mice according to the number of the cities of the Philistines, of the five provinces, from the fortified city to the village that was without wall, and to the great Abel (the stone) whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, which was until that day in the field of Joshua the Bethsamite.
So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and commander over them. And Jephthah spake all his words before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And he went up thither to Penuel, and spake unto them in the chariot: and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered.
But one of the servants, told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness, to salute our master, and he rejected them.
Nevertheless thou hast done well by partner with me in my affliction.
Again he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long time, as it is above said, To-day if ye shall hear his voice, be ye not your hearts.
so also the Christ, once having been offered to bear the sins of many, the second time, apart from a sin-offering, shall be manifested, unto them that wait for him, to salvation.
But Zebulun and Naphtali offered their lives to death in the region of Merome.
And Saul tarried at the uttermost part of Gibeah, under the pomegranate, which in Migron; and the people that were with him, about six hundred men,
Gideon said unto God, "Don't let thine anger be kindled against me, and I will speak but this once. Let me make a proof even this once with the fleece. Let it now be dry only on the ones among and upon all the ground let there be dew."
and others of mockings and scourgings received trial; and yet of bonds and imprisonment;
and the third day thou shalt surely come down, and thou shalt come unto the place where thou wast hidden in the day of the work, and hast remained near the stone Ezel.
not leaving our gathering together together, as is the wont to some, but that shout for each other, and by so much more as ye see the day drew near.
And when he had showed them, they smote the city with the edge of the sword, but that man and all his kindred they let go:
For the purpose of trial, Israel by them, to see if they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he had given unto their fathers by Moses.
He in the days of his flesh, having offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears to him that was able to save him from death, and having been heard for his godly fear,
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green cords which had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
Then said Saul unto Jonathan, Give me account of what thou hast done: And Jonathan gave him the parable, and said, Surely I took a little honey on the end of my of iron: and now death is to be my latter end.
And the men of Israel are called from Naphtali, and out of Asher, and from all Manasseh, and pursue after Midian.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
He will keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall be put to silence in darkness, for no man shall prevail by strength.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my petition which I asked of him:
But one of the young men told Abigal Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he railed on them.
I heard that thy shepherds that were with us in the wilderness were shearing: we never molested them, neither was there ought there lacked to them of the flock at any time all the while they were with us in Carmel.
Then the trees said unto the vine, Thou come and be king over us.
for God it is that worketh in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure.
And the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed because they saw that evil was closed in upon them.
Isn't this David, of whom people sang one to another in dances, saying, 'Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?'"
And the Philistine, said, I have defied the flocks of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
And Saul was afraid of David, because Jehovah was with him, and were departed from Saul.
And because of this, of a new covenant he is mediator, that, death when he is come, for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, those called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance,
And Samson lay until midnight. and arose at midnight, and took the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts thereof, and went forth with them, bar and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that lieth before Hebron.
Then said Saul unto his servant, But if we go, what shall we take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no oblation to take to the man of God, what shall we do?
After they moved it, the hand of Jehovah was against the city, cause a very great discomfiture, and he smote the men of the city from the youngest to the first-born, causing emerods, to break forth upon them.
And Abimelech heard that the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together,
so Christ also, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear the second time, without sin, to them that are earnest waiting for him for salvation.
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they answered, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as he hath done to us.
Gideon said, "Therefore when Jehovah hath delivered Zebah and Zalmunna; into my hand, then I will tear thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers."
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but will rebel against his words, the hand of Jehovah shall be upon you, and upon your fathers.
And they went in over against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle grievous, and they knew not that the evil is he that toucheth them.
only in victuals, and drinketh, and diverse baptisms, and fleshly ordinances even to the time of repentance laid upon it.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and they that are ill-treated, seeing thou art also in the body.
While Saul speaking to the priest, the tumult that was in the camp of the Philistines went on and increased; and Saul said unto the priest, "Withdraw your hand!"
Then the children of Israel did put away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served the Lord only.
For the word of God is living and active and fiercer than any two-edged sword, and piercings as far as the course of soul and spirit, both joints and marrow, and able to judge the reflections and thoughts of the heart.
Lord, when ye came out of Seir, provoke as an army from the field of Edom, the earth trembled, The heavens were troubled, and the clouds dropped water.
And David went up from thence to Mizpah of Moab. And he said unto the king of Moab, "Please let my father and my mother abide with thee, until I know what God will do for me."
I thank my God upon all the remembrance of you,
And David said to Achis: If I have found favor in thy sight, let a place be given me in one of the cities of the land, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
And Michal causeth David to go down through the window, and he went on, and fled, and escapeth;
And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and they came to the battle; and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal: and behold, I will come down to thee, to offer burnt-offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings, seven days shalt thou wait, until I come unto thee and certify thee what thou shalt do.
And the people returned to the camp: and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smote us to day before the Philistines? Let us fetch unto us the ark of the covenant of Jehovah from Shiloh, and let it come in the midst of us, that it may save us from the hand of our adversaries.
Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one thing I do, that forget those things which are behind them; and reaching forth unto those things which are before,
The princes of Succoth said, "Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna; now in thy hand, that we should give bread to your army?"
I exhort Euodia, and I exhort Syntyche, to think the same way in the Lord.
And Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I.
And Judah took Gaza and the border thereof, and Ashkelon, and the border thereof, and Ekron, with its removed.
according to zeal persecuted the church, according to the righteousness in the law being without blemish.
The caravans took from the spoil, sheep and oxen, the best of the devoted to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God at Gilgal."
And the Sidonians and Amalek and Midian press you down, and in answer unto thy cry did I not deliver you from their hands?
This I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment;
Her wise princesses answered and said unto her, Yea, she returned answer within herself,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
but on the third day thou shalt go down quickly and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself in the day of the king's business, and abide by the stone Ezel.
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred abode behind, which were so faint that they could not go over the brook Besor.
Now the God of peace, who made that great keeper of his flock and our Lord Jesus, come back from the dead through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey on the ground.
Then Jonathan called David and told him all these words: and Jonathan brought in David to Saul, and he was before him, as he had been beforetime.
From the heaven the stars fought. From their courses, they fought against Sisera.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
And they say, Behold, a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, from time to time that was on the north of Beth-el, at the rising of the sun, by the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.'
But they did not even hearken to their judges, for they played the harlot after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them; they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers had walked in, obey the commandments of Jehovah; they did not so.
Let married life be exalted among all of you and not made unclean: for men adultery, life shall be judged by God.
if chastening ye endure, as to sons God beareth himself unto thee; for that is a son whom shall the father chasten?
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul; and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
Now Zebah and Zalmunna; were in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of the children of the east: for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
And he said, It is prosperous. I am come to burn incense unto Jehovah, be ye sanctified, and come with me into the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now howbeit at length ye hast quickened your thought on me, though surely ye did also think [of me], but lacked opportunity.
then he hath said, "Behold, I am come to do thy will." He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second,
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, which they that heard excused themselves, that the word might not be spoken unto them,
For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Now Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not; And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
Then said Saul unto his servant, "But, behold, if we go, what must we bring the man? For the bread is spent in our sacks, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God. What shall we have?"
And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me as a lier-in-wait, as at this day?
But now, thy kingdom shall not endure. Jehovah hath sought for himself a man according to his own heart, and Jehovah hath appointed him as prince over his people, because ye have not kept what Jehovah commanded you."
I prayed for this lad, and Jehovah hath given me my request that I asked from him.
we push the south of the Cherethites and against that which to Judah, and against the south of Caleb, and Ziklag, we burned with fire.'
And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh,
So Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor The captain of his army was Sisera, and he dwelt in Harosheth Haggoyim.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah!
But the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my sweet wine, and my good fruit, and go to wave over the trees?
And when the flame from the altar went up toward heaven, the angel of the lord ascended also in the flame: And when Manue and his wife saw this, they fell on the ground.
And others had proof of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment:
So Achish said, Have ye not made a raid to-day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites.
So they sent messengers to spy round Beth-el. (Now the name of the city that is in the former time was Luz.)
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man to his city.
Now therefore arose in the night, thou and the people that were with thee, and lay wait in the field,
Only this day I began to inquire of God for him. Far be it from me that the king should impute aught against his servant or against my father's household, for thy servant hath not known any of this matter, little or much."
and her father said, I will surely said, that thou didst surely hate her, and I give her to thy other. is not her sister even the young man, better than she be? Let her be, I pray thee, unto thee, instead of her.'
And Sisera, fled on foot to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
And David said to Abner, Art thou not a valiant man? and who is like unto thee in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in to destroy the king thy lord.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came together to make a great sacrifice to Dagon their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath given into our hands Samson our adversary's hand.
So Michal lowered David through the window, and he went and fled, and escaped.
And the children of Ammon were summoned, and they encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel gathered and encamped in Mizpah.
Ask thy servants, and they will tell you, Let the young men find favor in your eyes, for we are come upon a feast day. I pray you, give whatsoever ye have on hand for thy servants, and for thy son David."
For the word of God living and operative, and fiercer than any two-edged sword, and blessest to course of soul and spirit, both of joints and marrow, and a discerner of the thoughts and intents of heart.
The Sidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Ammonites, did oppress you; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
And they went up into mount Zalmon he and all his people with him; and he took an axe, he cut down the boughs of a tree, and laid it upon his shoulder and bearing it, he said unto his companions: What thou see me do, do you out of hand.
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel. And when they joined battle, Israel was put to the worse before the Philistines, that slew about four thousand men of the host in the field.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were confounded: and the men of Israel had given way before Benjamin, casting their faith in the watchmen that were to make the ambush for Gibeah.
But the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel: and they said, "No; but we will have a king over us,
And he had greaves of brass on his legs, and a shield of brass covered his shoulders.
Let us hold fast the confession of the hope unwavering, (for he faithful that hath promised;)
Not looking every one to his private good, but remembering the things of others.
Saul's servants said unto him, "See now, an evil spirit from God troubles you.
And Jael went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Come in, my lord, come in unto me without fear. So he went into her tent, and she put a covering over him.
And the men of Shechem set liers-in-wait for him in the top of the mountains, and they robbed all that came by that way beside them; and it was told Abimelech;
And they turn aside the foreign gods out of the midst of them, and serve Jehovah, and his soul is grieved with the affliction of Israel.
And David saw that Saul is come out to seek his life, and David in the wilderness of Ziph, in a forest.
And the other kine took the straight way, that leadeth to Beth-shemesh, and they went on the way, lowing as they went; and turned not aside to the right hand nor to the left: and the lords of the Philistines followed them as far as the borders of Bethsames.
And the men of Israel saw that they were in a narrow (for the people were distressed); and the people hid themselves in the caves and in thickets, and in ragged rocks, and in strongholds, and in destructions.
And the king said, "You must needs die, Ahimelech, thou and all thy father's household!"
And Jephthah came to Mizpah to his house, and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances; and she was an only child: besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth, and it came to pass, when they went forth, that David succeeded better than all the servants of Saul; and his name was much esteemed.
And there were six hundred men from the children of Dan, armed with their weapons of war, were standing at the entrance of the gate:
to them that were in Racal, to them that were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, to them that were in the cities of the Kenite,
looking diligently, lest any man be wanting unto the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up do hinder, and by it many be defiled.
For ye know that even when he afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected for he found no place for a change of mind though he sought it diligently with tears.
And concerning the word which I and thou have spoken, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
For when God made his oath unto Abraham, because there was no greater oath, he made it by himself,
And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's mother's brother.
And behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And he entered into her shoulder, and behold, Sisera, lay dead, and the pin was in his temples
The river Kishion swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon; My soul, march upon with strength.
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel, for the ark of God is taken.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with thee: fear not, thou shalt not die.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "Yahweh sent me to anointed thee king over his people Israel. Now therefore hearken unto the words of Jehovah.
And she made him liest down, on her knees; and she sent for a man and had his seven loops of hair cut off; and while it was done he became feeble and his strength in him.
Saul said unto Michal, "Why have ye beguiled me thus, and let my enemy go, that he is escaped?" Michal answered Saul, "He said unto me, 'Let me be going: why should I kill you?'"
And David said to his men, Gird ye on every man his sword;' and they girded on every man his sword, and David also girdeth on his sword, and there go up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred have remained by the vessels.
So Delilah said unto Samson, Teach us now what is the mystery of thy great power, and how ye may be put in bonds and made weak.
Since therefore it abideth for some to enter into it, and the ones to whom the gospel was proclaimed heretofore, entered not because of disobedience;
Then Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto have ye mocked me with falsehood; now say behold, how shall I be put in attire? yet he said unto her, If ye receive the seven loops of my hair wrought into the cloth thou art making and fastened with the pin, I shall faint and shall be as any other man.
And the children of Benjamin drove not out the Jebusites, the inhabitants of Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And all the weight of the battle was turned upon Saul: and the archers overtook him; and he was grievously wounded by reason of the archers.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Stay ye, that I may tell thee that which Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
For if the word spoken through angels was binding and every transgression and act of transgression received a just penalty;
And David said to Ahimelech the priest, The king commanded me a matter, and he said unto me, Let no man know anything of the matter whereof I send thee, and which I have commanded thee; and the young men I have caused to know at such and such a place;
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And Samson went and took three hundred foxes, and he took lamps. He turned them tail to tail, and he put one torch between two tails
And he made himself a two-edged sword, with a haft in the midst of the length of the part of the hand, and was girded therewith under his garment upon the right thigh:
If there be therefore any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies,
And David took these words unto heart, fearing Achish, the king of Gath;
So Saul sought to pin David unto the wall with the spear, but he eluded Saul, so that he smote the spear into the wall, and David fled, and escaped that same night.
And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.
For every high priest taken from among men, is ordained for men in the things that pertain unto God, that he may offer up gifts and sacrifices for sins:
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of destroyers that plundered them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, so that they could not any more stand before their enemies.
Then the princes of the Philistines said, "What about these Hebrews?" Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, "Isn't this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or rather these years, and I have found no crime in him since he fell away to today?"
God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect;
His lord said unto him, "We won't turn aside into the city of a sojourner that is not of the children of Israel; but we will pass over to Gibeah."
Then said Saul unto Samuel: I have sinned because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, fearing the people, and obey their voice.
and the other out of love, knowing that for defence of the gospel I am set:
Now the Philistines, having received the ark of God, took it with them from Eben-ezer to in Ashdod, did
But Saul and the host spared Agag and the best of the sheep and the cattle and the second best of the young fatlings and all that was valuable; they would not utterly destroy them. But all the substance that were despised or vanity, they utterly destroyed.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when endureth chiefs was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I have comforted the death of all the souls of thy father's house.
God hearkened to the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field, but Manoah, her husband, wasn't with her.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon: and the people were very faint.
Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah fighting the Philistines.
And behold, Barak was pursuing Sisera, and Jael went out to meet him, and she said unto him, "Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou art seeking." And he came with her and saw that Sisera, was lying dead with the nail in his temple.
And it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath, so he no longer searched for him.
And the women sang as they danced, and they said, "Saul hath smitten down his thousands, but David his ten thousands!"
what shall we do for them for them that are left for wives, and we have sworn by Jehovah not to give unto them of our daughters for wives?'
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
And David sware again and again, and said, Thy father surely knoweth that I have found favor in thy sight: and he hath thought, Jonathan shall not know this, Lest he be grieved; howbeit Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a pulpit between me and death.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the tip of the rod, that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened loaves; and there arose a fire from the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened loaves; and the angel of Jehovah vanished out of his sight.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Because I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and I walk in the way which Jehovah hath sent me, and bring in Agag king of Amalek, and Amalek I have devoted;
Then Abigail hasted and took two hundred loaves of bread, two wine-skins, five sheep ready dressed, five measures of parched grain, a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.
And the children of Israel draw near unto the sons of Benjamin on the second day
And they went up into the city; they are come into the midst of the city, and behold, Samuel cometh forth to meet them, to go up to the high place;
And the Philistine, drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
As she continued praying before Jehovah, Eli saw her mouth.
And by faith Joseph, as he was dying, mentioned about the exodus of the children of Israel and gave charge concerning his bones.
None of theirs was there lacked from the least even unto the greatest, even sons and daughters, from the spoil up to everything they had taken for themselves; David brought back all things.
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash a man of Israel; for into his hand hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.
and the man saith unto him, Let them surely make a perfume (as to-day) with the fat, then take thee as thy soul desireth;' and he hath said unto him, Surely now thou shalt give, and if not, I have taken by strength.'
And he took the elders of the city and the thorns, and briers of the wilderness, and he trod the men of Succoth with them.
The things which thou hast both learned: and received, and heard, and seen in me, these do ye, and the God of peace shall be with you.
But in them there is a sign of sins year by year.
But made himself of no report, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And with whom was he angry forty years, Is it not with them that sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
And David fleeth from Naioth in Ramah, and cometh, and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what mine iniquity? or what my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?'
And Achis said unto his servants, See, saw the man was mad; why hast thou brought him unto me?
Behold, find out all of the secret places where he hides. Then return unto me with dependable it, and I will go with you. And it shall be, if he is there in the land, then I will seek him among all the thousands of Judah."
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob: and they came all of them unto the king.
And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine, in his hand.
So when they had eaten and wine in the guest-chamber, Hannah arose. Now Eli the priest sat by the pillars of the door of the temple of Jehovah.
Now at that time Samuel had no knowledge of Jehovah, and the revelation of the word of Jehovah had not come to him.
But he answered them, Go in peace, Jehovah looketh upon thy way, and the journey that thou go.
He had a son whose name was Saul, a young and desirable man. And there was not a man of the children of Israel more desirable than he was; from his shoulders up, he was taller than all the people.
And Saul said, Go ye so nigh hither all, the chiefs of the people, and know and see in what this sin hath been this day.
Let us hold the confession of our hope without wavering, for him that promised is faithful.
Moreover Jehovah will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: Jehovah also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And Gaal, the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem, that we are to be his servants, Is it not right for the son of Jerubbaal and Zebul his captain to be servants to the men of Hamor the father of Shechem? But wherefore are we to be his servants?
And see how great this one point, unto whom also a tenth Abraham the patriarch gave out of the best of the spoil;
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes, I, unto Jehovah, I will sing, I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Therefore the men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we will come forth unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seem good unto you."
And running to Eli he said, Here am I, for you said my name. And Eli said, I said not thy name; go unto thy rest again. So he returned unto his bed.
War from heaven was made against them, the stars remaining in their order and courses fought against Sisara.
And when they were over against the house of Micah, hearing a voice which was not strange unto them, that of the young Levite, they went out of their way to his place, and said unto him, How camest thou hither? and what do ye in this place? And why art thou here?
Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear. This uncircumcised Philistine, shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the hosts of the living God."
And as they pressed sore upon them, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephte out of the land of Tob to help them;
Be not hearer that to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels may flee thither.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand, and they smote them in Bezek, ten thousand men.
But his sons did not walk in his ways; they turned aside after lucre, they took a bribe, and they perverted justice.
And if thy father is due whereas that I am away, say, David asked to me for himself that he might go to Beth-lehem, to his place: for it is the time when his family make their oblation year by year.
And Samuel turned to go, he took hold of the skirt of his robe it shall be rent!
And Delilah said unto Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength should lie, and wherewith thou mightest be bound to afflict thee.
Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
If he shall say, It is well. thy servant shall have peace; but if he be angry, know that his malice is come to the height thereof.
Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again, when he was shaven.
And Achis said unto him, Whom hast thou gone against to-day? David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of Jerahmeel and against the south of Ceni.
And Michal took the image, and laid it in the bed, and put the net of goats' at its head, and covered it with the coverlet.
After Abimelech, Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, arose to save Israel. And he dwelt in Shamir in the hill-country of Ephraim.
that ye may prove what is superior, that ye may be unfeigned and unreproveable in the day of Christ,
So Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, "Come, let us go over to the garrisons of these uncircumcised; peradventure Jehovah will deal for us, for there is no hindrance for Jehovah to save by many or by few."
And Saul encamped in the hill of Hachilah, which is before the waste, by the way side. And David abode in the wilderness; and when he saw that he was come after him into the wilderness,
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
Let us then thou shalt go out to him without the circle of the tents, taking his despite unto ourselves.
"Then all the trees said unto feel the us.' 'Come and reign over
And they turned into it, to lodge there. And when they were come in, they sat in the street of the city, for no man would receive them to lodge.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither had the word of Jehovah yet been revealed unto him.
Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in Pirathon, in the land of Ephraim in the hill-country of Amalek.
At the end of the two months she returned unto her father, and he did to her according to his vow: and she did not sleep with a man. And it became an annual custom in Israel
And there hath not lacked to them it, both small and great, and unto sons and daughters, and from the spoil, even unto all that they had taken unto themselves, the whole hath David brought back
And it was so, as she rode upon the ass, that she came down by the covert on the hill, and, behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And it is true that there have been a great number of those priests, because death doth not let them go on for ever;
Not that I seek for the gift, but I seek for the fruit that increaseth to thy sake,
When David's servants had come to Abigal to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, "David hath sent us unto thee, to take you to him as wife."
For if the word being spoken through messengers did become stedfast, and every transgression and transgression received a just recompense,
Also Judah took Gaza, its border, and Ashkelon with the edge thereof, and Ekron with its border.
And Heber Kain had separated themselves from the Kenite, from the sons of Hobab, Moses' father-in-law, and he hath stretched out his tent unto the oak in Zaanaim, which by Kedesh.
And when the Lord hath done for my lord all these good things which he hath said he will do for you, and hath made thee a ruler over Israel;
"Tomorrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel; and he will save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come to me."
and the tower of Penuel he hath broken down, and slew the men of the city.
And they waited till they were put to shame; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper-chamber, and they took the key, and opened it, and behold, their lord lay dead upon the earth.
and the Philistines follow Saul and his sons, and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, sons of Saul.
Then let us come near to the seat of grace without fear, that mercy may be given unto us, and we may get grace for our help in famine.
Every priest indeed standeth day by day serving and oft-times offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins;
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was sore distressed by reason of the archers.
And when he saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid and his heart quaked greatly.
So when I saw that there was no help to be had from you, I put my life in my hand and went over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hands: Why then are ye come up to me this day to make war with me?
But now his priesthood as priest is higher: for through him God hath made a better covenant with man, according to the giving of better things.
ye may not harden your hearts in Meribah, in the day of the temptation in the wilderness,
The woman hasted and ran, and told her husband, and said unto him, "Behold, the man that came to me that day hath appeared to me,"
For all of you have conspired against me, and none discloses unto me the making of a covenant between my son and the son of Jesse: None of thou hast had bemoaned for me or manifested unto me that my son gave my servant against me to ambush me as hath been done this day!"
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan, and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death.
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the most by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.
Then Saul came up to Samuel in the gate of the city, and said, Give me by you, if ye will be so good, to the house of the seer.
who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions.
David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath;
Who made him to anger when he called them? was it not all them that came forth out of Egypt with Moses?
And on the morrow again, when men arose early in the morning, they found Dagon lying upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon, and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold:
And the evil spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul, and he dwelt in his house, and held a spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
Pray for us; for we trust we have a good conscience; in all things willing to live uprightly.
Asher hath not drive out the inhabitants of Accho, and the inhabitants of Sidon, and Ahlab, and Achzib, and Helbah, and Aphik, and Rehob:
And the heart of the priest is glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and entered into the midst of the people,
Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.
And to him by whom the new covenant hath been made between God and man, and to the sign of the blood which saith better things than Abel's blood.
Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, "Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters, as far as and Barah, even the Jordan!" So all the men of Ephraim were gathered together, and took the waters as far as and Barah, even the Jordan.
And he said unto her, "Stand in the door of the tent, and if any man cometh and searcheth after you, and saith, 'Is there any man here?' thou shalt say, 'No.'"
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and again destroyed to the ground of the children of Israel eighteen thousand men: all these drew the sword.
And he had forty sons, and of them thirty son's son, riding upon seventy ass colts, and he judged Israel eight years:
For if the blood of bullocks and of goats, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean; sanctified to the purifying of the flesh:
He answered him, We came forth from Beth-lehem-judah and we go to our home, which is on the side of the hill-country of Ephraim, from whence we went to Bethlehem: and now we go to the house of God, and none shall receive us under his roof;
But we desire earnestly that each one of you show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end.
And David said unto Ahimelech the priest, And the king commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no man know anything of the business whereabout I send thee, and that which I have commanded thee; and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
And they give unto Caleb Hebron, as Moses spake, and he dispossesseth thence the three sons of Anak.
And when David made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, "Is this thy voice, my son David?" And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them: and Jephthah uttered all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
So David came to Saul and entered his service. He loved him greatly and he became Saul's armor bearer.
and because of it he is duty to offer sacrifices for sins for himself also, as well as for the people.
Now the Philistine, came near, early and of the day, and he took his stand for forty days.
For they chastised us for a few days according to the seemed meet to them, but he doeth so for our profit, that we can have a portion in his holy words.
Then went out, and found Jael Barak going after Sisera, said unto him, Come, and I will let you see the man whom ye seek. And he came into her tent and looked, and, behold, there was Sisera, stretched out dead with the tent-pin in his head.
Saul was thirty years old at the beginning of his reign, and he reigned forty and two years over Israel.
But when he saw that Nahash king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, thou said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us: whereas Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
And Israel set liers-in-wait against Gibeah, round about,
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my eldest daughter of Saul, her will I give thee to wife; only be thou valiant for me, and fight Jehovah's battles. But Saul thought, my hand shall not be upon him, but the hand of the Philistines shall be upon him.
Saul was told that David had fled to Gath; and he sought no more again for him.
They chose new gods. Then war was in the gates. Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
The woman had a stalled ox in the house. And she made haste, and killed it; and she took dough, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread of it.
And the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron; and the shield-bearer went before him.
For when Moses had given all the ordinances of the law unto the people, he took the blood of goats, and young bullocks, with water, and red wool and hyssop, and put it upon the book itself and upon all the people,
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and took away their cattle, and put them to the sword with great destruction. So David was the saviour of the people of Keilah.
Take heed to keep open house: because in this way some have had angels as their guests, discern not of it.
And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering wholly unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
And he said, Let me go, for there is a solemn sacrifice in the city, one of my brethren hath sent for me: now if I have found favor in thy sight, then I will go quickly, and see my brethren. For this cause he came not to the king's table.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, "The Philistines have brought back Yahweh's ark. Come down, and bring it up to yourselves."
So let all thine enemies perish, Jehovah! But let them that love him be as the rising of the sun in his strength. And the land had rest forty years.
Whose end is destruction; whose God is their belly; and whose glory is in their shame; that mind earthly things.
And they said, "What one is there of the tribes of Israel that didn't come up unto Jehovah to Mizpah?" Behold, none came from Jabesh-gilead to the camp to the assembly.
Now Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines at Gibeah: and it was given to the Philistines that the Hebrews were turned against them. And Saul had a horn sounded through all the land,
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah;
And God did so that night, and it was dry upon the fleece only, but on all the ground there was dew.
Now a summary of the things whereof we are speaking it, We have such a one high priest that hath sat down on right hand of the throne of the greatness in the heavens;
And as she was going on her way her husband admonished her to ask a field of her father. And as she sigheth, sitting upon her ass, Caleb said unto her, What aileth thee?
Gideon made an ephod out of it, and he put it in his city in Ophrah, and all Israel played the harlot to it there, and it became a snare to Gideon and his house.
Are there not enough unbalanced men about me, that thou hast let this man come and do such guile, before me? is such a man to come into my house?
And she said unto him, "Give me a blessing; because thou hast set me in the land of the South, give me also springs of water." Then he gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, Zebah and Zalmunna; with whom ye reproached me, saying, Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna; now in thy hand that we give to thy men that wearied bread?'
And the man Elkanah went up, and all his house, to sacrifice unto Jehovah the sacrifice of days, and his vow.
And when the ark of the Lord's covenant came into the camp, all Israel cried with a great voice, so that the earth was sounding with it.
And the men have not hearken unto him, and the man taketh hold on his concubine, and brought out unto them without, and they know her, and roll themselves upon her all the night, till the morning, and put her away in the breaking of the day.
And he took the people, and parteth them into three detachments, and layeth wait in a field, and looked, and, behold, the people came forth out of the city, and he shall rise up against them, and smote them.
For also our God a devouring fire.
Though I myself might believe in the flesh: if any other man hath whereof to take refuge in the flesh, I have more:
And she called the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel; because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
and having found a jawbone, even the jaw through of an ass which lay there, he draweth it up, be slew therewith a thousand men.
Now Samuel was serving before Jehovah, as a lad girded with a linen ephod.
And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds and by thousands, and David and his men passed on in the rearward with Achish.
For a high priest such as this indeed is comely for us, holy, innocent; undefiled, separated from sinners, and become exalted above the heavens;
And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
judging, a part in the shame of Christ to be better than all the riches of Egypt; for he was looking for his reward.
Our brother Timothy is poured out of prison; and if he cometh here in a short season, he and I will come to you together.
For all things have I strength, in Christ's strengthening me;
chose rather to portion affliction with God's people, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a time;
Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death, but Samuel mourned over Saul, and it repented Jehovah that he made Saul king over Israel.
And God also recompensed all the wickedness of the men of Shechem upon their heads, and the curse of Jotham the son of Jerub-Baal fell upon them.
Not good is this thing which thou hast done; As Jehovah liveth, but ye sons of death, in that ye have not watched over your lord, over the anointed of Jehovah; and now, see where the king's spear it, and the cruse of water, which at his bolster.'
for ye know that also after that, desiring to inherit the blessing, he was rejected (for he found no place for repentance) although he sought it earnestly with tears.
And the messengers come to Gibeah of Saul, and speak the words in the ears of the people, and all the people lift up their voice, and wept.
And then afterward David felt guilty, because he had cut the skirts of Saul's robe.
But he turned from the graven images which were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Be ye your peace. And all that stood by him went out from him.
and they turn before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness, and the battle hath followed them; and they that from the city are destroying them among them.
Of how much sorer visitation, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God; and counteth the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace?
And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey upon the ground.
Zebulun destroyed not the inhabitants of Cetron, and Naalol: but the Canaanites dwell among them, and became their subject to taskwork.
And the children of Israel add to do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah hardened Eglon, king of Moab against Israel, because that they have done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And all the people went to Gilgal: and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal. There they offered sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of Cushan-rishathaim, king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel were his servants for eight years.
And he said unto them, See at me, and thus do; and, behold, I come into the uttermost part of the camp, and it shall be, as I do so shall ye do:
The sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for the men despised the oblation of Jehovah.
And the priest therefore gave him hallowed bread: for there was no bread there, but only the showbread, which had been taken away from before the face of the Lord, that hot loaves might be set up.
and I have gone out after him, and smote him, and delivered out of his mouth, and he rose up against me, and I have taken hold on his beard, and smote him, and put him to death.
So taking victuals and trumpets according to their number, he commanded all the rest of the multitude to depart into the camp: and he with the three hundred gave himself to the battle. Now the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
Then endureth that stood by the servants of Saul, answered and said, "I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub,
Some out of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And Saul is afraid of the presence of David, for Jehovah hath been with him, and from Saul He hath turned aside;
And Gideon saith unto him, Oh, my lord and Jehovah is with us? and why is all this found us? and where all his wonders which our fathers recounted unto us, saying, Is not Jehovah brought us up out of Egypt, and now Jehovah hath left us, and shall give us into the hand of Midian.'
And the man Micah had a house of gods; and he made an ephod, and family gods and put one of his sons in the person of priest.
And he laid his hand against them, and shall drive them in rebellious away, and that causeth great destruction! then he departed to his refuge in the noise of the rock at Etam.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes rent, and his head strewed with dust.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee, and will Jehovah avenge me upon thee, but my hand shall not be against you.
Only because of the generations of the children of Israel, for the purpose of teaching them war--only them that up till then had no experience of it;
And David said unto Saul, why dost thou hearken unto words of men, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
for your contribution unto the gospel from the first day until now,
And it came to pass, when the spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took the harp and played with his hand; and Saul was Yea, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.
and to the noise of a trumpet, and to the sound of words which they that heard besought that not another word be spoken unto them.
Remember your heads, who spake the word of God unto you; considering the end of their way of life imitate their faith.
And he dwelt in the mountain Hares, that is, of potsherds, in Aijalon, and Salebim. And the hand of the house of Joseph was heavy upon him, and he became servant under unto him.
And all the elders of Israel gather themselves together, and come in unto Samuel to Ramath,
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took away my land, from the Arnon as far as the Jabbok, and as far as Jordan: so now, give me back those lands and stilleth it.
She fastened it with the pin and said unto him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" And Samson arose from his sleep and rent loose the loom pin of a weaver's and the warp-threads.
Therefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered without the gate.
And the woman said unto him, Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
They that make war against Jehovah shall be broken; against them he will send his thunder out of heaven: Jehovah will judge of the ends of the earth, he will give strength unto his king, lifting up the horn of him on the anointed are slain.
And God did that night as he had requested: and it was dry on the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
Then Abimelech went up unto mount Zalmon, with all his people; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand and, cut branches of trees, took them, and put them upon his back. And he said unto the people that were with him, Make haste and do as thou hast seen me do.
But a certain dreadful expectation of justice, and the rage of a fire which shall consume the adversaries.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
And they said unto him, Inquire first, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way upon which we go shall be prosperous.
Then David put forth his hand unto the vessel, and fetched thence a stone, and slingeth, and smote the Philistine, on his forehead, and the stone sinketh into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the earth.
But Adoni-zedek fled away; and they went after him and overtook him, and had his thumb and his great toe cut off.
And his father and his mother didn't know that it was of Jehovah; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines ruled over Israel.
And he said unto them, Let thine eyes be on me, and do what I do: when I come to the outermost part of the camp, whatsoever I do, thou shalt do the same.
But the rulers of the Philistines were incensed against him, and said unto him, Make the man return unto the place thou hast given him: Fret not let him go down with us to the battle, or he may be turned against us, and be false to us: for how shall this man make peace with his lord? shall it not be with the heads of these men?
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-Lehemite, skilful in playing; and a mighty worthy man, and a man of war, and prudent in word, and a man of waste and Jehovah with him.'
And they took the two captains of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, they killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb: and they killed Zeeb at the winepress of Zeeb, while they chased Midian: and they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon from beyond the Jordan.
If he saith, It is well, thy servant shall be at peace: but if he be angry, then it shall know that he hath an evil purpose in mind against me.
Judah said to Simeon his brother, "Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with you into your lot." So Simeon went with him.
Wherefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever: but now Jehovah said, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be abject.
or else he must have suffered often since the foundation of the world. But now once at the end eternal, he hath been revealed to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Jehovah put to death, and nourished up: he brought down to Sheol, and brought up.
For we have not a high priest, who can not have compassion on our infirmity: but one tempted in all things like as we are, without sin.
And Saul drew near to Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house is.
And these are the nations which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, all that have not known all the Wars of Canaan;
For ye have not come to [the mount] that might be touched and was all on fire, and to darkness, and darkness, and tempest,
And he said unto him, We are to pass over of Beth-lehem-judah unto the sides of the hill-country of Ephraim, thence I it, and I go unto Beth-lehem-judah. And to the house of Jehovah I go, and there is no man gathering me into the house,
Now Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have both of us sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed. and Jonathan went into the city.
And he did valiantly; For he smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hand of those that plundered them.
And they turned thitherward, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
But Samson lay until the midst of the night: he rose up in the midst of the night, and took hold of the doors of the gate, and the two side-posts, rent them loose with the frame. put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that lieth in front of Hebron.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of your father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
Then me, up to Gibeah to see Saul, and said, Is not David living secretly among us in the strongholds in Horesh, in the hill of Hachilah southward of the wilderness?
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth, forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
By the voice of shouters And between the places of drew water, There they give out righteous acts of Jehovah, Righteous acts of his villages in Israel, Then ruled in the gates have the people of Jehovah.
Pray for us; for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience; and want to conduct ourselves commendably in every way.
As soon as ye come into the city, thou shalt straightway find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat till he come; because he blessed the burnt-offering; and afterwards they eat that are invited. Now therefore go up, for to-day ye shall find him.
Whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, made a high priest for ever After the order of Melchisedec.
And their sins and iniquities I will remember no more.
Therefore Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men on the rocks of the wild goats;
that Jehovah sent a man that is a prophet, unto the children of Israel, and he said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I have brought you up out of Egypt, and I bring you out from the house of bondage,
I thank my God whensoever I remember you,
And Saul sent officers to take David: and it was answered, that he was sick.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
And he that brought tidings answered and said, Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there hath been a great slaughter of the people: moreover thy two sons, Ophni, and Phinehas, are dead; and the ark of God is taken.
Ehud, made for himself a short, two-edged sword (the cubit in length), and he fasteneth it under his clothes on his right thigh:
And he said unto them, What have I done to be compared unto thee? Is not that which Ephraim took up after the grape-cutting better than all the cluster which Abiezer rose in from the grape-cutting?
And he went from thence to Penuel, and he spake similarly unto them; and the men of Penuel answered him even as the men of Succoth answered.
The princes of Issachar were with Deborah. As was Issachar, so was Barak. They rushed into the valley at his feet. By the watercourses of Reuben, there were great resolves of heart.
Then Jonathan said unto him, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and ye shall be swerved for thy throne shall dwell empty.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey and said, Go and put to the curse them sinners, the Amalekites, fighting against them, till every one is dead.
Then Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it "Yahweh is Peace." Unto this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
Who is made not according to the law of a carnal commandment, but according to the power of an indissoluble life:
Then said Zebul unto him, Where is now thy mouth, thou that saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast destroyed; and go out now, I pray, and fight against them.
Now the men of Israel were sore distressed in that day for Saul had made the host swear, saying, "Cursed be the man that eateth any food until even, when I will have avenged me of mine enemies!" So none of the army tasted any victuals.
For they that say these things, do signify that they seek a country.
And he sent through all Manasseh, and they came after him; and he sent to Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali, and they came up and consorted with the others.
And Samson was there until the midst of the night; then he arose and took hold on the doors of the city, snatching them up, together with their two upholdeth and their bolts thereof, and put them upon his back and took them up to the top of the hill in front of Hebron.
But congealed food is for them that are fullgrown, that by reason of use have their minds exercised to discern good and evil.
And Samson said, With a red ass's mouth-bone I have made them red with blood, with a red ass's mouth-bone I have destroyed a thousand men.
A champion out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span went out.
A man that hath rebelled against the law of Moses is put to death without pity on the word of two or three witnesses:
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the Philistines came to strip the slain, and they find Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpeh, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter unto Benjamin to wife.
And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, rank against rank.
The men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword. All these were mighty men of valor.
And they took that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to Laish. to a people quiet and unsuspecting, and smote them with the edge of the sword; then they burnt the city with fire.
Therefore it behooved the sketches of the things in heaven to be purified with these sacrifices, but the heavenly things themselves to be purified with better sacrifices than these.
In like manner thou also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And Jehovah will also give Israel with you into the hands of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou and thy sons will be with me, and Jehovah will also give the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines."
Then he fled and have gotten them, and dwelt in the land of Tob: and there were gathered unto him needy men, and robbers: and they followed him as their prince.
by the new and living way which he inaugurated for us through the curtain, that is, his flesh,
And she fell at his feet, and said, Upon me let this iniquity be, my lord, let thy handmaid speak, I beseech thee, in thine ears, and hear the words of thy servant.
and said unto him, This is the word of Jephthah: Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the children of Ammon;
because to you it was granted, on behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also for him to suffer:
And Saul said unto him, whose son art thou, young man? And David said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Beth-lehemite.
but exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called "today"; lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
So Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken:
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us be going: But none answered. And the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and gat him unto his place.
And Saul said, Speak thus unto David, The king delighteth not any dowry but only a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. Now Saul thought to deliver David into the hand of the Philistines.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, "None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin as a wife."
Now David had spoken unto the men that were standing with him, saying, "What shall be done unto the man that defeats this Philistine, and removeth the reproach of Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he rageth against the battle rows of the living God?"
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna; "What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor?" They answered "They were like you. Let each man been the children of a king."
And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
And Jael came out to meet Sisera, and she said unto him, "Turn aside, my lord, turn aside to me and do not be afraid." So he turned aside into her tent, and she covered him with a blanket.
And thou shalt make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land; thou shalt see that their altars are broken down: but ye have not hearkened unto my voice, what hast thou done?
And Saul seeth and knoweth that Jehovah with David, that Michal the daughter of Saul loved him;
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah, and an angel of God came again to the woman; she was sitting in the field, but Manoah her husband was not with her.
But Samson's wife was given to his friend, whom he had used as his friend.
So they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines unto them, and they said, "What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?" And they said, "Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought round about toward Gath." So they moved the ark of the God of Israel to Gath,
For God is my witness, how greatly I long after you all in the belly of Jesus Christ.
"Please speak in the ears of all the men of Shechem, 'Is it profitable for thee that all the sons of for. that are seventy persons, rule over you, or that one rule over you?' Remember also that I am thy bone and thy flesh."
Paul and Timothy, bondmen of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are in Philippi, with overseers and ministers;
For he beareth witness; Thou art a priest for ever, according to my love
For such a high priest was comely for us: holy, guiltless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made above the heavens;
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of terebinths, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod; if thou wilt take that, take it; for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that side: give it me.
by faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that He that is destroying the first-born might not touch them.
And when he sent messengers to take David, she said, "He is sick."
For we are become partners of Christ, if so be that we hold fast the beginning of our commitment stedfast until the end,
Jonathan called unto David and told him all these words. Then Jonathan brought David to Saul and he was before him as beforetime.
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken also unto the voice of thy servant, and let me set a morsel of bread before you. Eat, that ye may have strength, when ye go on your way."
Cast not away therefore thy confidence, which hath great recompense of reward.
And there was a certain man of Ramathaim-zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite.
remember the in my bonds, as having been bound with them, of those maltreated, as also yourselves being in the body;
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, "Don't stop crying unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines."
For he hath spoken about the seventh day on this wise, "And God rested on the seventh day from all his works,"
And ye shall cry out in that day because of thy king which ye shall have chosen you; and the Lord will not hear you in that day.
Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel; whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
He will appoint for himself captains of thousands and captains of fifties, and those to do his plowing and to reap his harvest, and those to make weapons of war, and the instruments for his chariots.
The man rose up to go, but his father-in-law urged him, and he returned and lodged there.
Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, which is with the sheep.
And he gathered an host, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hand of them that despoil them.
And it came to pass, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and the interpretation thereof, that he did obeisance. And he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath given into thy hand the camp of Midian.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down to the camp: for I have given it into thy hand.
And say this to my brother, Let all be well for you; peace be unto thee, and thy house, and all thou hast:
And Saul said, The Lord's blessing shall be thine; for thou hast had pity upon me.
Who hath no need to make atonement for sins every day, as stuff high priests, first for himself, and then for the people; because he did this once for ever when he made an oblation of himself.
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered up upon the altar that was builded.
for God is not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the labor of the love, that ye showed unto his name; having ministered unto the saints and serve.
So Gideon and the three hundred men that were with him came to the outermost part of the camp at the beginning of the midst watch, when the watchmen had only then taken their stations; and the horns were sounded and the vessels broken.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot. Gilead begat Jephthah.
Then the rulers of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews doing here? And Achish said unto the rulers of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me for a year or two, and I have not seen anything amiss in him from the time when he came to me thus far?
And he went on from thence to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he went on, and playedst the prophet, till he came to Naioth in Ramah:
But whereto we have one to redeem it, [let us] walk in the same steps.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
Then they said, What is the trespass-offering which we shall return to him? And they said, Five golden hemorrhoids, and five golden mice, the number of the lords of the Philistines; for one plague is upon them all, and upon your Lords.
And Samuel ministered before Jehovah, a lad girded with a linen ephod.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Let all that is in thy heart; turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim: saying, The Philistines have brought back the ark of the Lord, come ye down and fetch it up to you.
And David said, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, and he will preserve us, and will give the troop which cometh against us into our hand;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me the South, give me also springs of water. And he gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and went to Samuel at Ramah,
but Christ is faithful as a Son over his house; whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the glorying of our hope firm unto the end.
Now the first covenant had the statutes of worship, and a holy order.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall give me word if thy father give thee a rough answerest?
Pursue peace with all men, and holiness, without which no one shall see the Lord.
Wandering in waste places and in mountains In holes in the rocks; for whom the world was not worthy.
That this shall be no grief unto thee, nor trespass of heart unto my lord, either that thou hast shed blood causeless, or that my lord hath avenged himself: but when the Lord shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after these robbers, and shall I overtake them, or not? And Jehovah said unto him, pursue after them: for thou shalt surely overtake them and recover the prey.
And the feet of his saints He am bereaved. And the wicked in darkness are silence, because not by power doth man become mighty.
Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up unto Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, "Tell us, how did this wickedness happen?"
So her husband set forward, and he went after her to speak comfortably unto her, to bring her back. And he took with him his servant and a pair of asses. And she brought him to her father's house, and the father of the damsel, saw him, and was glad to meet him.
And forasmuch as not without an oath he was made priest:
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigal to take her unto him to wife.
(And Ahijah the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, Jehovah's priest in Shiloh, had worn the ephod.) And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And he inclosed a youth of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him; and he wrote for him the chief men of Succoth, and the elders thereof, seventy and seven men.
And when the Lord raised up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judges; For it repented Jehovah because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and vexed them.
and Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, brother of Ichabod, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, that had the ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan had gone.
For we have found trespass, he saith unto them, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will accomplish a new covenant as touching the house of Israel, but as touching the house of Judah:
but exhort ye one another every day, while the To-day is called, that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of the sin,
But also thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever: no, not when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.
Then all the children of Israel went out and gathered together as one man from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah in Mizpah;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou thus after my name, seeing it can indeed divine?
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are along by the borders of the Arnon, three hundred years? why therefore did ye not recover them within that time?
Behold, here is my daughter a virgin, and his concubine: them will I bring out now, and humble ye them, and do with them what seemeth good unto you: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.
Give words of love to every one that is godly in Christ Jesus. And the brethren that are with me salute thee.
Samson said unto them, "If ye will behave like this, I swear I will not rest, except I have taken revenge on you."
And he said unto his servant, "Run, please find the arrows that I am shooting!" The lad ran, and he hath caused the arrow to pass over him.
And Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
Let thy shamefastness be known to all men. Jehovah is nigh.
Howbeit Sisera, fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city, and began to smite of the people, slaying as at the former times, in the highways, whereof one leadeth to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
Where your fathers tempted me, Proved and saw my works,
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do unto the ark of the Lord? tell us wherewith we shall send it unto his place.
Ehud, came unto him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the cool upper chamber. Ehud, said, "I have a message from God to you." And he arose out of his seat:
And call unto thy remembrance the former days, in which having been enlightened, ye did endure much fight of the sufferings,
And by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that were disobedient, because she received the spies in peace.
But the triumpher in Israel shall riot spare, and shall not be moved unto repentance; for he is not a mail that he should repent:
And Saul said unto his servant, But if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and we have no tribute to give to the man of God, what have we?
The trees journeyed to anoint a king over themselves. And they said unto the olive-tree, 'Reign over us.'
to them that were in Aroer, to them that were in Siphmoth, to them that were in Eshtemoa
Then said Saul unto Samuel, I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words; for I feared the people, and hearkened to their voice.
So let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah: but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.
And they came to their brethren at Zoreah and Eshtaol. And their brethren said unto them, What ye?
Saul and all the people that were with him were gathered together, and came to the battle; and, behold, they were all smiting each other with their swords in very great confusion.
Is it not now the time of the grain cutting? And my cry will go up unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; that ye may know and acknowledge thine great sin which thou hast done in the eyes of Jehovah in asking a king for yourselves.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and we will give thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
for by one offering he hath perfected to the end those kept;
And Gedeon seeing that it was the angel of Jehovah, and said, Alas, my Lord Jehovah: for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
that they say unto him, Say now Shibboleth;' And he said, `Sibboleth,' and is not prepared to speak right and they take him: and kill him at the mouth of the Jordan, and there fell at that time, of Ephraim, forty and two chiefs:
So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
If a man sin against a man, then God can intercession for him. But if a man sin against Jehovah, who can intercession for him?" But they did not obey their father, because Jehovah was minded to slay them.
Then said Saul unto David, "Blessed art thou, my son David; ye shall not only do many things, but also will always succeed!" Then David went on his way and Saul returned unto his place.
And he then, the children have partaken of flesh and blood, he himself also in like manner did take part of the same, that through death he might destroy him having the power of death that is, the devil even
And to them that were in Aroer and that were in Sephamoth, and that were in Eshtemoa
Then he said unto David, "You are more righteous than I, for ye have rewarded me the good, but I have rewarded evil unto you the evil.
And those things, which ye have both learned: and received, and heard, and seen in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
And David leaving the vessels which he had brought, in the house of the keeper of the for removing, ran unto the place of the battle and asked whether all things went well with his brethren.
I sent him therefore the more carefully that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be less faint.
When Gaal saw the people, he said unto Zebul, "Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains." Zebul said unto him, "You see the shadow of the mountains as if they were men."
And when the men of Israel saw the danger they were in, (for the people were troubled,) they hid themselves in the caves in the hillsides and in the wood and in rocks and holes, and hollows.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, "What shall be done unto the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?"
by faith Moses, having become great, did refuse to be called a son of the daughter of Pharaoh,
but if to dwell in the flesh [is my lot], this is for me worth the while: and what I shall choose I cannot declare unto thee.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, My father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?
But if I say this to the lad, 'Behold, the arrows are beyond you;' then go your way; for Jehovah hath sent you away.
Give words of love from me to them that are rulers over you, and to all the saints. They that are in Italy; salute thee.
And the Philistine, said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and for the beasts of the field.
And Gideon made an ephod of them, and put it in his city, in Ophrah. And all Israel went thither the harlot after it; and it became a snare unto Gideon, and to his house.
And he entered inquire of Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and put in his hand the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
neither man nor woman doth David keep alive, to bring in to Gath, saying, Lest they declare against us, saying, Thus did David done, and thus his custom all the days that he shall dwell in the fields of the Philistines.'
And when the words were heard that David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him.
Let us therefore, as many as are perfect, consider this way: if in anything ye think a different doctrine, God will also reveal that unto you.
For both he that sanctifieth and them that are sanctified all of one; for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
and could set free these that for fear of death were subject to bondage throughout all their life.
She put forth her hand to the peg, and her right hand for the workman's hammer; and she smote Sisera, crushed his head, and she broken and pierced his temple.
And he said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you, but Jehovah will rule over thee.
And the woman made haste, and ran, and showed her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.
For when all the commandment had been spoken by Moses to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
And Gideon son of Joash died in a good old age, and he was buried in the sepulchre of Jehoash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And it shall come to pass in the spirit of [sadness from] God being on Saul, that David had taken the harp and played with his hand, and Saul hath marrow and gladness, and the spirit of sadness hath turned away from him.
of how much worse visitation, then shall he be judged worthy that hath trodden under foot the Son of God; and esteemed the blood of the covenant, whereby he hath been sanctified, common, and hath reproached the Spirit of grace?
And after Abimelech, there rose up to save Israel Tola, the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar: and he dwelt in Shamir upon mount Ephraim.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose up early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now faith is the realization of what is hoped for, the proof of things not seen.
For both he that hath sanctified and they that are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
And he smote them thigh and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and dwelt in the top of the rock, Etam.
And it came to pass after they have brought it off, that the hand of Jehovah is against the city with a very great destruction! and he smote the men of the city, from the least even unto great; and break forth upon them do emerods.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, upon Hophni and Phinehas. in one day they shall die, both of them.
Then opened the truth of the thing, he said unto her, The razor hath never come upon my head, for I am a Nazirite, that is to say, consecrated to God from my mother's womb: if my head be shaven, my strength shall depart from me, and I shall become weak, and shall be like other men.
One that was wiser than the rest of his wives, returned this answer to her mother-in-law;
And of the angels he said, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And in nothing be ye distressed by reason of the adversaries: which to them is a cause of perdition; but unto you of salvation, and this from God:
Nevertheless certain vile fellows said, "How can this man deliver us?" So they despised him and brought no gift to him, but he kept silence;
At the noise of my horn, and the horns of them that are with me, let your trumpets round about the tents, and say, For Jehovah and for Gideon.
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekite had invaded the south, and Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag, and burn it with fire:
but thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house unto the world, nor in Jehovah's cut off the enemies of David, every one from off the face of the ground.'
And the cities, which the Philistines had taken from Israel, were restored to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and their borders: and he delivered Israel from the hand of the Philistines, and there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And he said, "I have sinned. Now please honor me before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me that I may worship Jehovah thy God."
So David's young men turned upon their way, and went back, and came and told him all these words.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died with him.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to the Benjaminites to wife.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord the king.
And being found in man; he humbled himself, being obedient to death, yea, the death of the cross.
And when Saul saw the Philistine, army he was troubled, and his heart was moved with fear.
and being made so much better than God, as he hath inherited a most excellent name than they.
And she made him sleep on her knees; and she called for a man, and shaved off the seven locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength in him.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou troubled me, to bring me up?' And Saul said, I am in a great strait: and the Philistines fight against me, God hath taken away from me, and hath not answered me any more, either by the hand of the prophets, or by dreams; and I call for thee to let me know what I do.'
And being feeble, he hath to make sin-offerings for himself as well as for the people.
For when all the commandment of the law had been read of Moses to all the people, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
having become so much better than God, as he hath inherited a most excellent name than they have.
So they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor: Then they sent messengers round about in the land of the Philistines to proclaim victory in the houses of their idols, and to the people.
Now the men of Ephraim came together and took up arms and went over to Zaphon; and they said unto Jephthah, Why did ye go over to make war against the children of Ammon without sending for us to go with you? Now we will lay thy house on fire over you.
and he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I am a Nazirite of God from my mother's womb; if I should be shaven, then my strength would go from me, and I should be weak, and be like all mankind?
Now therefore arise, by night, you and the host that is with you, and in ambush in the field.
Then Yahweh's angel stretched out the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened bread, and fire went up out of the rock, and consumed the food and the unleavened bread. Then Yahweh's angel departed out of his sight.
And when the men of Israel saw that it was too hard for them, because the army was hard pressed, the people hid themselves in the caves in the thorn bushes, in the rocks are in the vaults and in the wells;
So Jahel Haber's wife, took a nail of the tent, and taking also a hammer: and going in softly, and with silence, she put the nail upon the houses of his head, and smote it with the hammer drove it through his that breaketh fast into the ground: and so passing from deep sleep to death, he swoon and died.
Micah consecrated the Levite, and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even; and asked counsel of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the Lord said, Go up against him.
Therefore Saul builded an altar unto Jehovah; it was the first altar he built unto Jehovah.
And God cleaveth the hollow place which into a troop, and waters come out of it, and he drunk, and his spirit came back, and he reviveth; therefore hath called the name thereof The fountain of him that is calling,' which in Lehi unto this day.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had remained encamped, and according David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay within the wagon-defence, and the people were encamped round about him.
Therefore as many as are perfect, let us hold this expectation, and if ye think anything a different doctrine, God will reveal this also unto you.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Bethshemite, and stood there, where there was a great stone, and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the kine a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
At that time Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, made this song, saying,
The one point a pillar on the north over against Michmash, and the other on the south over against Gibeon.
Having therefore a great chief priest passed through the heavens even Jesus the Son of God may we hold fast the confession;
And David said unto Achish, "But what have I done? What hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been before thee unto this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?"
He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.
And the servants of Saul spake all these words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it unto you a small matter to be the king's son in law? But I am a poor man, and of small ability.
And Saul said, Not a man is to be put to death to-day: for this day Jehovah hath made Israel safe.
For the law, having only a poor copy of the latter good things, and not the true image of those things, is never able to make the people that come to the altar every year with the same offerings clean every whit:
And she shall not eat of anything that cometh of the vine, Neither let her wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing. Let her observe all that I commanded her."
And he said unto her, "Get up, let us go," but there was no answer. So he put her on the ass, and the man arose, and went unto his place.
And when the Philistine, arose and was coming, and drew nigh to meet David, David made haste, and ran unto the fight to meet the Philistine.
Then said Jehovah unto Samuel, "Listen to their voice, and appoint a king for them." So Samuel spake unto the men of Israel, "Each of you go to his own town."
And Gilead took the fords of the Jordan before Ephraim; and it came to pass that, when the outcasts of Ephraim said, Let me go over, the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? and he said, No.
Thou shalt bid Jesse to the sacrifice and I will make known to you what ye shall do. Thou shalt anoint for me the one whom I tell you."
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
Delilah said unto Samson, "Behold, thou hast mocked me: and told me lies: therefore, I pray thee, tell me wherewith ye might be bound."
and Adoni-Bezek said, Seventy kings in their thumb and their great toe cut off were gathering under my table. as I have done so hath God recompensed unto me;' and they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
For a man hath found his enemy but sent him on his way safely. And now Jehovah reward you with good in return for this day, for that which thou hast done for me.
And he made a great slaughter of them, so that in astonishment they laid the calf of the thigh upon thy thigh. And going down he dwelt in a cavern of the rock Etam.
And he said, With the jaw through of an ass, with the mouth of the colt of asses I have destroyed them, and have slain a thousand men.
According to my expectation and hope; that in nothing I shall be confounded, but with all boldness, as always, so now also shall Christ be magnified in my body, wither it be by life, or by death.
And now, brethren, I desire ye should know, that the things which are come to pass unto me, are fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel:
And the children of Israel gave up the worship of Baal, and Astarte, and served the Jehovah only.
Saul arrayed David with his raiment. He put a helmet of brass was upon his head, and he clad him with a coat of mail.
Do all things without murmurings and divisions,
And he said unto her, Stand in the door of the Tent, and it shall be if any man come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
Now Jonathan saith unto him, `To-morrow new moon, and thou shalt be looked after, for thy throne is looked after.
On that day they smote the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon: and the people were feeble of famine.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of it, that the Philistines had done to Saul,
But his sincerity also is known unto thee; how that, as a child is to its father, so he was a help unto me in the work of the gospel.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and corrupted themselves, more than their fathers, after other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not from their own doings, nor of their stubborn way.
And behold, a certain woman casting an upper millstone from above, dashed it against the head of Abimelech, and brake his own pate.
Then said I, 'Behold, I am come in the book of the book it is written of me is, to do thy will, O God.'"
Then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cave in Etam's rock, and said unto Samson, "Don't ye know that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that thou hast done unto us?" And he said unto them, "As they did unto me, so have I done unto them."
And the king said unto her, "Do not; What do ye see?" And the woman said unto Saul, "I see a god that cometh up from the ground!"
And Abimelech and the congregation that was with him, rushed forward, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and the two other companies ran upon all the people that were in the fields, and slew them.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been keeper of his father's sheep; and if a lion or a bear came and took a lamb of the flock,
And the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
Achish believed David, saying, "He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; Therefore he shall be my servant forever."
And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
But the growth of his hair was beginning again after that it was cut off.
And he said unto him, "Don't be afraid: for the hand of Saul my father won't find you; and ye shall be king over Israel, and I will be next unto you; and Saul my father knoweth that also."
that by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have a strong exhortation, that have fled for refuge to take hold of the hope set before us.
Thy daughters also he shall take to make him ointment, and to be his cooks, and bakers.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, the new moon to-morrow: and I will surely sit with the king to eat; and thou didst send me away, and I have been hidden in the field until the third even;
Then Jotham straightway fled to Beer: and dwelt there for fear of his brother Abimelech;
and he went into the house of his father at Ophrah, and slew his brethren, sons for. seventy persons, on one stone; and Jothan, youngest for. is left, for he was hid.
And David sent spies secretly, and knoweth that Saul was come unto Nacon,
Eli said unto her, "How long wilt thou be drunk? Get rid of your wine!"
And it was so, that, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob:
My heart to the lawgivers of Israel, Who willingly offered themselves among the people, Bless ye Jehovah.
And they took two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, they slew Oreb upon the rock of Oreb: and Zeeb they slew at the winepress of Zeeb; Yea, they pursued Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.
and Jonathan stripped himself of the robe which upon him, and giveth it to David, and his long robe, even unto his sword, and unto his bow, and unto his girdle.
Wherefore let us fear, while there remaineth the promise of entering into his rest, that none of you appear unto fall short of it.
And Micaiah said, "Now I know Jehovah will make me prosperous, because the Levite is become my priest."
For yet "a exceeding little while, and the one that cometh shall come and will not delay.
Then Ahimelech answered and said unto the king, who among all thy servants is so true unto you as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is a captain of your guard, and hath a place of honor in thy house?
And they turned aside there, and came to the house of the young Levite man, even to the house of Micah, and asked him how he was doing.
The people of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the old man said, Is it well with thee; only, all thy lack upon me, only in the broad place lodge not.'
Now Jonathan said, My father hath terrified the land: thou hast seen yourselves that mine eyes are enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey:
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver; that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
But Jonathan answered his father Saul and said unto him, "Why should he be put to death? What hath he done?"
Then the five men departed, and went to hearken, and saw the people that were there, how they dwelt in safety, in the way of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; for there was no man in the land, yet possessing authority, that might put them to shame in anything, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no dealings with any man else.
But if also I am poured out as a drink-offering on the sacrifice and ministration of your faith, I will be glad and rejoice in common with you all.
that ye may be harmless and simple, without reproach, children of God in the midst of a perverse and crooked generation. among whom ye appear as lights in world,
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner did David speak.
But I am sore distressed between the two options, having the desire to depart and to be with Christ, for this is very much good.
Moreover his mother made him a little robe, and brought it to him from year to year; when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
Wherefore, my brethren, being able to go into the holy place without fear, because of the blood of Jesus,
And he said, This shall be the manner of the king that shall reign over you, He will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen. and some shall run before his chariots.
And he died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
Now the sign appointed between the men of Israel and them that make the ambush was that, when they made a pillar of smoke go up from the city,
And David lifted up and the people that were with him, their voice, and wept; until they have no power to weep.
wherein tempt me did your fathers, they did prove me, and saw my works forty years;
For the word of God is living and active, and fiercer than any two-edged sword, piercings even to the half a soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and is able to discern the thoughts and intents of the heart.
And they arose early; and about daybreak, Samuel called to Saul on the housetop, saying, "Get up, that I may send thee away." Saul arose, and they both went without, he and Shemuel, together.
And the man departed from the city, of Beth-lehem-judah went to sojourn where he might find [a place]. And as he journeyed, he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And an evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul. And he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David played with his hand.
and to Hannah he giveth a certain plat, double, for he hath loved Hannah, and Jehovah hath shut her womb;
Whereas he hath dwelt in Heshbon, and the towns thereof, and in Aroer, and the villages thereof, and in all the cities near the Jordan, for three hundred years. Why hast thou for so long time assayed nothing about this claim?
Be not hard of heart, as when ye provoked me to wrath, in the day of trial, in the wilderness,
at the end of these days hath spoken unto us in [the person of the] Son, whom he hath established heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;
the universal gathering; and to assembly of the first-born [who are] reckoned in heaven: and to God, judge of all; and to spirits of just made perfect:
And when the flame went up to the heaven from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar to heaven while Manoah and his wife were beholding. And they fell upon their faces to the ground.
David left his stuff in the hand of the keeper of the for removing, and ran unto the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
And Samson took hold of the two midst pillars on which the house stood (and he stayed up himself upon them), the one with his right hand and the other with his left.
For I have none else likeminded, who will truly care for you.
And thus she did every year, when the time returned that they went up unto the house of Jehovah: and thus she provoked her; but Anna wept, and did not eat.
Then Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy words come true we may give you honor?
And he said unto him, "Far from it! Ye shall not die. Behold, my father will do nothing, large or small except he reveal it to me: wherefore should my father hide this thing or anything from me?"
Receive him therefore with all joy in Jehovah; and took counsel with honor such as he is.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions, and they were with him.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
And to Jesus the mediator of the covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel.
And David and his men went up and fell upon the Geshurites and the Girzites and the Amalekites; for these were the people that dwelt in the land from Telam on the way unto Shur as far as Egypt.
And he said, "I have sinned; yet please honor me now before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and come back with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God."
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan, to make war against Judah and Benjamin and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was in great distress.
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear; Thou makest Yahweh's people transgress.
and all the evil of the men of Shechem hath God turned back on their head, and come unto them doth the cursing of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
And at their first charge, Jonathan and his servant put to the sword about twenty men, all in the midst of the space of half an acre of land.
And Jehovah smote them before the children of Israel, and they smote of them in that day five and twenty thousand, and a hundred, all men of valor, and that drew the sword.
And Jephthah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon.
And Samuel knoweth not yet Jehovah, and the word of Jehovah is not yet revealed unto him.
So Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, "If thou bring me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah giveth them over unto me, will I be your head?"
And he took the elders of the city, and had them crushed in the bed of thorns and sharp straw.
Remember thy prelates that have spoken the word of God unto you: whose faith follow, considering the end of their manner of life,
And three thousand men of Judah go down unto the cleft of the rock Etam, and say unto Samson, Hast thou now known that the Philistines are rulers over us? and what this thou hast done unto us?' And he saith unto them, Like as they did unto me, so I did to them.'
Now when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel had gathered at Mizpah, the rulers of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
Jonathan therefore made a covenant with the house of David: and the Lord required it at the hands of David's enemies.
The Lord therefore left all these nations, and would not quickly destroy them, neither did he deliver them into the hand of Jeshua.
Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them unto the goldsmith, and who made thereof a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
While they were making merry, and refreshing their bodies to eat and to drink, after the labor of the journey, the men of that city, sons of fellow, (the same is without yoke,) came and compassed the old man's house, and began to knock at the door, calling unto the master of the house, and saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may abuse him.
Now Samuel didn't yet know Jehovah, neither was Yahweh's word yet revealed unto him.
And Benjamin returned at that time, and they gave unto them the women whom they kept alive from Jabesh-gilead; but they were not enough for them.
But ye are come to the mountain of Zion, unto the place of the living God, to the Jerusalem that is in heaven, and to an army of angels which cannot be numbered,
Finally, brethren, be glad in the Lord. scripture the same things to you is no trouble unto me, and for you it is safe.
by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with them that disobedient, having received the spies with peace.
And then men of Kiriath-jearim came and bare up the ark of Jehovah and carried it into the house of Abinadab in the hill: and they sanctified Eleazar his son, to keep the ark of Jehovah.
and it was so. And rising before day wringing the ones among filled a vessel with the dew.
Then said Jehovah unto Samuel, "Listen to the voice of the people concerning all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from being king over them.
and he findeth a fresh jaw-bone of an ass, and putteth forth his hand, and took it, and smote with it for a thousand men.
Because by one offering he hath made perfect for ever them that are made holy.
For the word of God is living and full of power, and is worse than any two-edged sword, cutting through and making a division even of the soul and the spirit, the bones and the muscles, and hasty to see the thoughts and purposes of the heart.
and I have taken my bread, and my water, and my flesh, which I slain for my sheep-shearers; and have given to men whom I know not whence they !'
And they came to the when he fought against Hazael hill, and behold, a company of prophets met him: and the spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he prophesied in the midst of them.
And David put his hand into the bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine, in his forehead, and the stone sank into his forehead. and he fell upon his face to the earth.
So Saul sent his servants to Jesse and said, Send me thy son David that is with the sheep.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel mourned for him, and buried him in Ramatha his city. And Saul had put away all the magicians and soothsayers out of the land.
In the days of Shamgar the son of Beth-anath, in the days of Jael, The ways were unused, and the foreigner that shall come upon highways went by crooked paths.
All these were overthrown in faith, not having had the land; And when they saw it with delight far away, they gave witness that they were wanderers and not of the earth.
And Eli answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition which thou hast asked of him.
Hear the women laughter by the watersprings. there shall they give again the commentary of the righteous acts of Jehovah, all the righteous acts of his arm in Israel.
As thou go from with me this day thou shalt find two men near the Rachel's grave in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah. They shall say unto you, 'The she-asses that ye went to search for have been found.' Now behold, thy father is no more careful for the she-asses and hath begun worrying about thee, saying, 'What should I do about my son?'
And she said unto her father, "Let this thing be done for me: grant me two months so that I may go wander upon the mountains and lament over my virginity; I and my fellows.
Not as though I had already one to redeem it, either were already perfect: but I followed after, if that I may take that for which also I am taken of Christ Jesus.
And David heareth in the wilderness that Nabal is fleece his flock,
but now they seek a better, that is, a heavenly; wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city.
So the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets; and he sent all the men of Israel every man to his tent, but retained the three hundred men; and the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
That we also may be like unto all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
Then In that night Saul sent messengers to David's house to keep watch upon him to put him to death in the morning; and David's wife Michal, said unto him, If thou wilt not go away to a refuge to-night ye shall be put to death in the morning.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, "If with all your heart thou art turning unto Jehovah, remove the foreign gods and Ashtoreths from the midst of thee. Commit thy heart unto Jehovah, and serve him alone. Then he will deliver thee from the hand of the Philistines."
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green withs which had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
But if ye are without instruction, of which all have been made partakers, then are ye illegitimate, and not children.
how shall we escape if we should forsake so great a salvationwhich at the first having been spoken through the Lord, was confirmed unto us, who heard;
they were stoned, they were sawn asunder, they were tried; in killing the sword they died; they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins being destitute, afflicted, shamefully treated,
And it came to pass in those days, when there is no king in Israel, that there is a man a Levite, a sojourner in the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he took him a wife, a concubine, out of Beth-lehem-judah.
And ye see that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon shall come against you, and ye say unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; and Jehovah your God your King!
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.
But the princes of the Philistines were incensed against him, and they said unto him, Let this man return, and abide in his place, which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, that he be an adversary unto us, when we shall begin to fight against him: for how can he otherwise appease his master, but with our heads?
And she put him to sleep on her lap; then she called the men and shaved off seven locks of his head. Then she began to subdue him, and his strength departed from him.
And he stripped himself also of his garments, and prophesied with the rest before Samuel, and lay down naked all that day and night. This gave occasion to a time, saying, Why is Saul too among the prophets?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away; and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
Now Saul spake unto Jonathan his son and to all his servants about killing David, but Saul's son Jonathan took pleasure in David very much.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Heli, Ophni, and Phinehas, were slain.
David therefore rose up in the morning, and gave the charge of the flock to the shepherd; and went away laded as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the place of Magala, and to the army, which was going out to battle, and shouted for the battle.
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went forth to go on his way, and, behold, the woman, his concubine, is fallen at the door of the house, and her hands upon the threshold,
But as to which of the angels said he ever, Sit thou on my right hand, Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
For indeed we have had good tidings preached to us, even as they also did, but the word they heard didn't profit them, because it wasn't mingled with faith by them that heard.
And the men of Judah said, "Why are ye come up against us?" And they said, "To bind Samson; to do unto him as he did to us."
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's family in Israel, that I am to be son-in-law to the king?
And I am persuaded in the Lord that I myself shall come shortly also.
For to which of the angels did he say continually, "You are my son, This day have I begotten you," and again, "I will be his father, and he shall be my son"?
And the children of Benjamin coming forth out of Gibeah, and slew of the children of Israel that day two and twenty thousand men.
For they all follow after that which is theirs, not after the things of Christ.
And when Jehovah shall have done unto thee, my lord, all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have made thee prince over Israel,
And the messengers came, to their amazement the idol was upon the bed with the quilt of goat's hair at the head.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebronthe name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath-arba; and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And David said unto Achish, If now I have found favor in thy sight, they give me a place in one of the cities of the field, and I dwell there, yea, why doth thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?'
And for this cause it is through him that a new covenant is come born, so that after the statutes under the first covenant had been taken away by his death, the word of God might be fulfilled for them that were sealed out for an everlasting inheritance.
And Abimelech the son of Jerub-Baal went to Shechem, unto the kindreds of his mother, and he said to them and to the house of his mother's father,
but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men.
And the Philistine, said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
We fell upon the South of the Cherethites, and on that which belongeth to Judah, and on the South of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag, with fire."
And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Samuel lieth until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah, and Samuel is afraid of declaring the vision unto Eli.
and the uncle of Saul saith unto him, and unto his young man, Whither went ye?' And he said, To seek the asses: and we see that they are not, and we came to Samuel.'
Answered: I came into Gibeah of Benjamin with my wife, and there I lodged:
Now the set time for the men of Israel with the ambushment was that they sent up unto them a homer of smoke from the city.
What is it then? at any rate, in every way, whether in occasion nor in truth, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice, yea, also I will rejoice;
Thus saith Jephte: Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And Achish answered, It is true that in mine eyes thou art good, like an angel of God: but still, the rulers of the Philistines have said, He is not to go up with us to the battle.
And David arose secretly, and came to the place where Saul was: and when he had beheld a place to Saul slept, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his army, and Saul sleeping in a tent, and the rest of the multitude round about him,
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they lay in ambush against Shechem in four companies.
And David said unto Saul, "Why hear ye the words of people that say, 'Look, David seeketh to do you harm'?
And I will go out and take my place by my father's side in the field near where ye are: and I will get into talk with my father about you, and when I see how things are, I will give you word.
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim, a Zuphite of the hill-country of Ephraim, named Elkanah: he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite:
But the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the message which Jephthah sent to him.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron: (now the name of Hebron beforetime was Kirjatharba:) and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And he said unto them, What have I done now more thee? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?
Now this man used to go up from his city year by year to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh, where the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were priests unto Jehovah.
For it is impossible that with the blood of oxen and goats sin should be taken away.
And he said, Thou hast taken my gods which I made, and my priest, and are gone away; what is now? Why then say ye unto me, What aileth thee?
And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
And Zebah and Zalmunna; in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand, all that are left of all the camp of the sons of the east; and those that fell away, a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
There is both straw and provender for our asses, and also bread and wine for me, for thy servant and for the young man that is with thy servant; there is no lack of anything."
for every high priest to offer both gifts and sacrifices is appointed, whence [it is] necessary for this one to have also something that he may offer:
peradventure he is now dividing the spoil, and the fairest of the women is chosen out for him: garments of divers colors are given to Sisara for his prey, and the vessels of divers kinds is heaped up to adorn the necks of them.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, Lest Israel vaunteth themselves against me, saying, mine own foundation thereof.
Then Samuel told all the words of Jehovah to the people that had asked for a king of him,
So Jehovah let those nations dwell in the land, not drive them out quickly, and did not give them into the hand of Joshua.
And he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and he slew his brethren, the sons of Jerub-Baal, seventy persons, on one stone. But Jotham the youngest son of Jerub-Baal survived, because he hid himself.
And it was from that day forward; and he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
and she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
They were already far from the house of Micah, when the men that were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
And the people eyes to spoil, and took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground: and the people did eat them with the blood.
And without all contradiction, that which is less, is blessed by the better.
And watching: and if the daughters of Shiloh come out to divide the dances, then come from the vineyards and take a wife for every one of you from among the daughters of Shiloh, and return unto the land of Benjamin.
Then Gideon came to the Jordan, and went over it with his three hundred overcome with weariness and in the famine.
And Gideon had threescore and ten sons of his body begotten: for he had many wives.
And the Philistines were gathered together to fight with Israel; thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a people as the sand that is upon the sea-shore for multitude; and they come up and encamped in Michmash, east of Beth-Aven.
And the hand of Jehovah is heavy on the Ashdodites, and He maketh them desolate, and smote them with the emerods, Ashdod, and the borders thereof;
In those days was there no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes;
But he called upon Jehovah, saying, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, and restore to me now my former strength, O my God, that I may avenge me of mine enemies, and for the loss of my two eyes I may take one vengeance.
And when Gedeon had heard the dream and the interpretation thereof, he worshipped him; and returned to the camp of Israel, and said, Arise, for Jehovah hath delivered the camp of Midian into our hands.
And they took what Micah had made, and his priest, and they came to Laish. to a tranquil and the careless Ethiopians people, and they smote them with the sword and he burned the city with fire.
One course turned in the way to Beth-horon, and one turned in the way toward the border passeth over the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Behold, as to that which concerneth women, we have refrained ourselves from time past, and it when we came out, and the vessels of the young men were holy. Now this way is defiled, but it shall also be sanctified this day in the vessels.
For, As Jehovah liveth, who hath saved Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. And no one answered him among all the people.
I said, The Philistines shall now come down upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah; and I forced myself, and offered up the burnt-offering.
As soon as ye are come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat, until he come, because he may bless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that be bidden. Now therefore get you up; for about this time ye shall find him.
And the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened bread, and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened bread. And the angel of Jehovah went forth out of his sight.
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
But year by year there is a remembrance of sins in those offerings.
Then the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And he refused, and said, I will not eat;' and his servants exhort upon him, and also the woman, and he hearkened unto their voice, and rose up from the earth, and sat on the bed.
So Jehovah left those nations, without drive them out in haste. He didn't deliver them into Joshua's hand.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence again unto you.
if thus they say unto us, Stay yet until we have come unto you,' then we have stood in our place, and go not up unto them;
and he said unto him, "Thus saith Jephthah: Israel didn't take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon,
Why then didst thou not hearken to the voice of Jehovah, but didst fall upon the spoil, and didst evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And Saul heareth And all Israel, these words of the Philistine, and they are broken down and sore afraid.
And Ahinoam hath David taken from Jezreel, and they are and both of them to him for wives;
Blessed is thy discretion, And blessed are you, that have kept me this day from blood guiltiness, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots, set with scythes, and for twenty years had grievously oppressed them.
Rejoice in all my prayers supplication for you all, with joy;
Therefore Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and encamped in the valley of Elah, and they formed flocks for the battle to meet the Philistines.
Now Jehovah had revealed it unto Samuel the day before Saul came before him, saying,
And the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, and speak unto her, saying, `David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to him for a wife.'
And Saul said unto his servant, Well said, come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was.
Oh, do not depart from here until I come unto thee, and bring forth my gift and set it out before you." And he said, "I will tarry till thou return."
'Are they not finding and dividing the spoil? A bedmate or two bedmates for every man, broidered garments for Sisera, spoil of broidered garments, skilfully finished broidered garments, upon the neck of the plunderer?'
and there is not a created thing not manifest before him, but not all things naked and open to His eyes with whom is our reckoning.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein, and beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And again the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: therefore strengthened Eglon, king of Moab against Israel, because they did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come to contend with us, that we will say unto them, 'Grant them graciously unto us, because we didn't take for each man his wife in battle, neither did ye give them unto them, otherwise thou wouldest now be guilty.'"
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he laid them waste, and smote them with hemorrhoids,Ashdod and the borders thereof;
And he shall take the tenth day of your seed and your vineyards and give to his chamberlains and to his servants.
And he judged Israel twenty and three years: and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
And all the children of Israel went forth, and the assembly gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
and David had great anguish, for the people have said to stone him; for the soul of all the people hath been bitter, every man for his sons and for his daughters; and David doth strengthen himself in Jehovah his God.
And David said to Achis: Now thou shalt know what thy servant will do. And Achis said unto David, And I will appoint thee to keep my life for ever.
become imitators together of me, brethren, and observe them thus walking, according as ye have us a pattern;
for consider again him that endured such gainsaying from the sinners to himself, that ye may not be wearied in your souls. being faint.
And they gave him seventy silverings out of the house of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hired also with them men, vain and unstable, and they go after him;
and that which is bearing briers and thorns; rejected, The and nigh to cursing, whose end for burning;
So that when he cometh into the world, he saith, Thou would none of offerings, but thou made a body ready for me;
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued after the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
and ye have seen, if the way of its own border it goeth up to Beth-shemesh he maketh it done unto us this great evil; and if not, then we know that his hand hath not come against us; an accident it shall be unto us.'
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?
And when Jephte returned into Maspha to his house, his only daughter met him with timbrels and with dances. for he had no other children.
And there shall be no need for every man to be teaching his brother, or his neighbor, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah; for they shall all know me, great and small.
And Ehud, went out into the porch, and shut up the doors of the upper-chamber upon him, and bolted them.
Then the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and spake these words in the ears of the people, then all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
So David and his men arose about six hundred men, and went out from Keilah and wandered whithersoever they could go hence: when it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, he left off his pursuit.
The men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, "What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?" And he said unto them, "If thou hadst not plowed with my heifer, ye would not have found out my riddle."
for it is impossible for blood of bullocks and goats to take away sins.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon, and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men; and pursued hard after them unto Gidom, and slew two thousand men of them.
And make straight way, thy feet, and the feeble may not be turned out of the way, but may be made strong.
The Lord judge between me and thee, and the Lord avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And they said, Behold, every year there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is to the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
By faith, he came forth out of Egypt, feared not the wrath of the king; for he endured: as seeing him that is invisible.
and the men that have not died were put to the worse with the emerods, and the cry of the city went up into heaven.
Now in these days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain Levite dwelt in the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he prepared him a servant-wife from Beth-lehem-judah.
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabeshgilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
He smote seventy men among the men of Beth-shemesh because they looked into the ark of Jehovah. So the people mourned because Jehovah had smitten a great slaughter among the people.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the place of the wagons, with his spear caught hold of the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay round about him.
For we wilfully sinning after the receiving the knowledge of the truth, no more for sins shall there remain a sacrifice,
Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it to the temple of Dagon and laid it beside Dagon.
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Honor in the heavens;
But if ye will not hearken unto Yahweh's voice, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then Yahweh's hand shall be against you, as it was against your fathers.
So Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outermost part of the camp in the beginning of the midst watch, when they had but Which are set the watch, Then they blew the trumpets, and brake in pieces the flagons thereof, that were in their hands.
not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers when I took them by the hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt; for they kept not the covenant with me, and I gave them up, saith Jehovah.
but we see Jesus, for a short season, made lower than God, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, so that apart from God he might taste death on behalf of all;
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them: so all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land, became Israel's.
Now Jonathan said unto David, Whatsoever thy soul shall say unto me, I will do for thee.
And it came to pass in the morning Jonathan went out into the field for the appointment with David, and a young boy was with him.
Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other thinketh he may have boldness in the flesh, I more,
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, Yet shall the people are many; bring them down to the water, and I will try them for thee there, and it shall be, that of whom I shall say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I shall say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
They compassed the Benjaminites, pursued them, trod them down at the place over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Beth-lehem-judah went and was there some time,four months.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, as he had nine hundred chariots of iron, and he oppressed the children of Israel cruelly for twenty years.
And by faith he abode in the land, dwelling in cottages, with Isaac, and Jacob, the being also joint-heirs of the same promise.
And the word of Samuel is unto all Israel, and Israel went out to meet the Philistines unto the battle; and they encamped by Eben-Ezer, and the Philistines have encamped in Aphek,
And the old man said, "Peace unto you: and I will keep thy needs; however, thou shalt not lodge in the open square."
And at their words, the Spirit of God came upon Saul with power, and his wrath was kindled.
But David was the youngest: So the three eldest having followed Saul,
David went up from thence and abode in the strongholds of En-gedi.
So my brethren, well loved and very dear unto me, my joy and crown, be strong in the Lord, my beloved sleep.
For when the flame went up to the heaven from off the altar, Yahweh's angel ascended in the flame of the altar. Manoah and his wife watched; and they fell upon their faces to the ground.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchizedek met him.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened bread, and place on this rock of and the broth pour out;' and he did so.
So when the evil spirit from God came to Saul, David would take the harp, and play it with his hand. Then it would bring relief for Saul; he would feel better and the evil spirit would depart from him.
And by faith Abraham, tried; offered up Isaac, and he that had received to himself the promises offered up his only begotten it,
who, being the outshining of his glory, the true image of his substance, and plead all things by the word of his power, having given himself as an offering cleansing from sins, sat at the right hand of God in heaven:
The man went into the land of the Hittites, builded a city, and called the name of it Luz (the same is the name thereof unto this day.
Naphtali hath not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and the inhabitants of Beth-anath, and he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; and the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh with of Beth-Anath are become servant under unto them.
and of doing good, and of fellowship, be not forgetful, for with such sacrifices God is well-pleased.
For here we do not have a continual city, but we seek the city that is to come.
And thou hast made known unto me how good thou hast been unto me this day; because, when Jehovah gave me up into your hands, ye did not kill me.
and Saul cast the spear, for he said, "I will pin David even to the wall!" David escaped from his presence twice.
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came again unto the woman, and she sitting in a field, and Manoah her husband is not with her,
And he said unto him, "Do not be afraid: for the hand of my father Saul shall not find you; and ye shall be king over Israel, and I will be second unto thee: My father Saul knoweth this also."
for a sin of divination rebellion, and iniquity and teraphim stubbornness; because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, He also hath cast thee from king.'
Then Zebah and Zalmunna; said, Arise, Consume us thyself: for thou hast a man's strength. Then Gideon arose, and put Zebah and Zalmunna; to death and took the ornaments which were on their camels' necks
And they put the ark of Jehovah on the cart and the chest with the gold images.
Jehovah will strike through his adversaries: he will thunder against them in the heavens. Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth: He will give strength unto his king and will exalt the strength of his anointed.
And David said, What have I done now? is it not a word?'
Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem take refuge in him.
So all the men of Israel arose, and put themselves armed at Baal-tamar: and they that had been wait to make an ambush came rushing out of their place on the west of Gibeon.
And Debbora said unto Barac: Arise, for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath delivered Sisara into thy hands: behold, he is thy leader. And Barac went down from mount Thabor, and ten thousand valiant men with him.
And now, give up the men sons of vanity (which in Gibeah, and we put them to death, and we put away the evil from Israel.' And [the sons of] Benjamin have not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
The Lord giveth riches, and taketh a man's spoil of him, treading men down and again lifting them up;
And let us be provoke one another at all times to love and good works;
Nay, my sons: for it is no good report that I hear, that ye make the people of the Lord astray.
So the priest delivered him the holy bread: there was no other, only the showbread, which had been taken from before the Lord, that new bread might be put in the place on the day when it was taken away.
And he said unto her, What his form?' and she said, Jehovah's old man cometh up, and he covered with an upper robe;' and Saul knoweth that he Samuel, and bowed his head with his face to thee earth, and did obeisance.
Then on the morrow, men arose early and made an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon the Ashdodites, and he destroyed them, and afflicted Ashdod, and the borders thereof with emerods. And in the villages and fields in the midst of that country; there came forth a multitude of mice, and there was the confusion of a great what is mortal in the city.
And they rose up and went up to Beth-el, and ask of God, and the children of Israel said, Who shall go up for us at the first time to battle with the sons of Benjamin?' and Jehovah said, `Judah at the commencement.'
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of destroyers that plundered them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about; and they could not any more stand before their enemies.
And all the men of Shechem assembled themselves together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king by the oak of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, fled beside themselves.
But he rising up began to be for departing. And nevertheless his father-in-law earnestly pressed him, and made him abide with him.
and play the harlot against him shall his concubine, and she went from him unto the house of her father, unto Beth-Lehem-Judah, and is there days worth four months.
And she said, "Excuse me, my lord. as thou livest, my lord, I am the woman that stood with you in this place to pray unto Jehovah.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: They forgat Jehovah their God, and they served the Baalim and the Asheroth.
And the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities, and of country villages, even unto the great stone of Abel; whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of Joshua the Bethshemite.
When thou shalt depart from me this day, thou shalt find two men by the sepulchre of Rachel in the borders of Benjamin to the south, and they shall say unto thee, The asses are found which thou wentest to seek; and thy father supposing that no more of the asses is careful for you, and said, What shall I do for my son?
And Saul commanded Jonathan his son and to all his servants to slain David. But Saul's son Jonathan had great delight in David.
He offered the tribute to Eglon; king of Moab. Now Eglon, was a very fat man.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Let us seven days, that we may make proclamation throughout all the borders of Israel: and if there be none to defend us, we will come out to thee.
And the servants of David said unto him, Behold, the day, of which Jehovah said unto thee, I will deliver thine enemy unto thee, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good in thy sight. And David arose, and secretly cut off the skirts of Saul's robe.
And there went from thence of the family of the Danites that could set out of Zorah, and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men appointed with weapons of war.
For I will be merciful unto their unrighteousness. I will remember their sins and iniquities no more."
And Nabal answered the servants of David and said, Who David, and that the son of Jesse: this day have servants been multiplied that are breaking away every man from his master;
And send for Jesse to be present at the oblation, and I will make thee know what ye shall do: and thou shalt anointed him whose name I give thee.
I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will talk with my father about you; and if I see anything, I will tell you."
Now the asses of Saul's father Kish had gone wandering away. And Kish said unto his son Saul, Take one of the servants with you, and arise and seek the asses.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnah Heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the mountain of Gaash.
Jehovah do so to Jonathan, and more also, should it please my father to do you evil, if I don't disclose it unto thee, and let you go, that thou mayest go in peace. Jehovah will be with you, as he hath been with my father.
What doeth it matter? Only that in every way, whether in pretence or in truth, Christ is proclaimed. I rejoice at this, yea, and will rejoice.
What shall we do for themfor that are left overfor women? For we have sworn by Jehovah not to give unto them our daughters as wives."
And it came to pass, when he made an end of speaking he cast the jaw through from his hand; and he called that place Ramah Lehi.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and take before them the waters unto Beth-barah, and the Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim were called together, and took the waters unto Beth-barah, and the Jordan.
They both made a covenant before Jehovah. And David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
He that brought tidings answered, "Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people. Thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and God's ark hath been captured."
And they journeyed waiting till they were put to shame, But the doors were still shut; so they took the key, And he opened them, saw their lord stretched out dead on the ground.
that the daughters of Israel went every year to keep the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.
Whence also he is able to save utterly them that approach by him to God always, living to make supplication for them.
And as they were going down to the suburbs of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, "Tell the servant to pass on before us. And when he hath overcome, ye stand here a while, and I will make known unto you the word of God."
Else as Jehovah liveth the God of Israel, who hath withholden me from doing thee any evil: if thou hadst not quickly come to meet me; there had not been left to Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
And they said unto Jephthah, "Come and be thou our ruler, that we may fight with the children of Ammon."
And Gideon went in, and shall prepare a he-goat, and of an ephah of fine flour unleavened things; the flesh he hath put in a basket, and the broth he hath put in a pot, and he brought out unto him, unto the place of the oak, and bringeth nigh.
Then Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy neighbor, that is better than thou.
And gave him the tidings, how Saul had put to death the Lord's priests.
So whensoever the evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, David took his harp, and played with his hand, and Saul was Yea, and was better, for the evil spirit departed from him.
And he took Agag the king of Amalek alive, but all the people he utterly destroyed with the edge of the sword.
When Abimelech had reigned three years over Israel,
And they gave him seventy pieces of silver of the temple of Baal-Berith, and Abimelech hired with them worthless and reckless men, and they followed him.
fulfil ye my joy, that ye may mind the selfsame thing, that having the same love, of one soul, intending the one thing,
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, to all that ye said unto me, and I cause to reign over you a king,
For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, ye shall not be established neither shall thy kingdom. Therefore now send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die!"
marriage [be held] every way in honor, and the bed undefiled; For fornicators and the adulterer will God judge.
Saul sent messengers to David's house, to watch him, and to kill him in the morning. Michal, David's wife, told him, saying, "If ye don't save thy life to-night, to-morrow ye shall be killed."
Therefore the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephte, and going about Gilead, and Manasseh, and Maspha of Gilead, and passed from thence to the children of Ammon,
And his brethren and his father's people came down and took him up, and buried him in the earth between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the sepulchres of Manoah his father; and he had been judge of Israel for twenty years.
For rebellion is like the sin of divine; arrogancy is like iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath rejected you from being king!"
And when Samuel was come to Saul, Saul and said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
And he said, "You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and are gone away. What more do I have? How canst thou say unto me, 'What aileth you?'"
Then I said, Lo, I come in roll of the book it is written of me is, to do, O God, thy will.
If they say unto us, Keep quiet where thou art until we come unto you, and we will keep our places and not go up unto them.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me the South, give me also springs of water. And he gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
Who in the days of his flesh, with a strong cry and tears, offering up prayers and supplications unto him that was able to save him from death, was heard for his reverence.
Then returning from Gilgal, where the idols were, be said unto the king, I have a secret message unto thee, O king. And he commanded quiet: and all being gone out that were about him,
Let us go therefore with confidence to the throne of grace; that we may obtain mercy, and find favor in seasonable help.
And Gideon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah: and all Israel went thither the harlot after it: which thing became a snare unto Gideon, and to his house.
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old and his eyes tarried appointed before, and he could not see.
Then for. who is Gideon, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the fountain of Harod. Midian's camp was on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
But the things which were profit unto me, I gave up for Christ.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.
And David said unto the Philistine, "You are coming to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin, but I come unto you in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the array of Israel, whom thou hast defied!
Asher didn't drive out the inhabitants of Acco, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob:
Every man in distress, and every man who had a creditor and every pricked man gathered unto him, and he was their ruler: Now there were about four hundred men with him.
And David came in and his men even unto the city, and behold, burned with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters shall be carried captive!
And she said unto him, Why speakest thou thou art my lover when your heart is not own? Three times ye reproached me, and have not made known unto me the mystery of thy great strength.
We made a raid against the south of the Cherethites, and against what to Judah, and against the south of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag, with fire.
in the which shall we are being sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once,
And the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron. His shield bearer went before him.
having become by so much better than God, by as much as he hath inherited a most excellent name than theirs.
And when he was come, he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he led them.
And Saul said unto his servants, Seek ye me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, and I will go to her, and inquire by her. And his servants said unto him, There is a woman that hath a divining spirit at Endor.
for them speaking such words make manifest that they seek a country;
And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And Samson said, Now I have a hard question for you: if thou be able to give me the answer before the seven days of the feast remain over, I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of raiment;
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekite had made a raid upon the south, and upon Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag, and burnt it with fire:
And he said unto him, Be it far from thee, thou shalt not die: for my father will do nothing great or little, without first telling me: hath then my father hid this word only from me? no, this shall not be.
For they indeed chastened for a few days, as seemed good unto them; but he for profit, in order to a communion of his holy words.
And when he saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he stood in awe of him.
But the children of Benjamin when they saw themselves to be too weak, began to flee. Which the children of Israel seeing, gave them place to flee, that they might come to the liers-in-wait that were prepared, which they had set near the city.
And every one in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one of pricked spirit gathered round him; and he became a captain over them; and there were with him about four hundred men.
By so much is Jesus made a surety of a better testament.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the spirit of sadness God prospereth over Saul, and he prophesieth in the midst of the house, and David was sporting with his hand, as day by day, and the spear in the hand of Saul,
and they came thither to the height, and, behold, a band of prophets met him, and prosper over him doth the Spirit of God, and he prophesieth in the midst of them.
And these are the golden emerods, which the Philistines returned for sin to Jehovah: For Ashdod, one, for Gaza one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one:
And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedeshnaphtali, and said unto him, shall not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, saying, Go and draw in front of mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And they said one to another, Who hath done this? And when they inquired for the Prince of the devoted thing it was said, Gedeon the son of Joash did all this.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's youngest brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
Then Ehud, reached with his left hand for the sword on his right thigh, and he thrust it into his belly.
So Gaal went out at the head of the inhabitants of Shechem and fought against Abimelech;
There was a man from the hill-country of Ephraim; his name was Micah.
Then said Saul unto Michal, "Why have ye beguiled me as this and sent away my enemy, so that he escaped?" Michal said unto Saul, "He said unto me, 'Let me go, why should I kill you?'"
So David and Abishai came to the host by night, and there was Saul lying asleep in the camp with his spear thrust into the ground near his head, and Abner and the host were lying round about him.
Thou tookest no pleasure in burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.
For the law, having a shadow of the coming good things, not the image itself of the things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually yearly, perfect them that draw near,
And Saul sought to nail David unto the wall with his spear. And David slipt away out of the presence of Saul, and the spear erred concerning him, and was fastened in the wall, and David fled, and escaped that night.
do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, in the day of trial, in the wilderness,
Ibzan died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And it was so, that, after they had carried it there, Yahweh's hand was against the city with a very great confusion; and he smote the men of the city, both small and the great so that the emerods, brake forth upon them.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this wickedness: yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all thy heart;
And they tarried till they were put to shame: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the parlour; therefore they took a key, and opened them; and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead upon the earth.
Therefore we ought to pay greater heed unto the things that were heard: lest haply we drift away.
And the children of Dan said unto him, See thou say no more to us, lest men in a rage come unto thee, and thou perish with all thy house.
So Midian was broken before the children of Israel and the Midianites never restored their strength; And the land had peace for forty years, in the days of Gideon.
By faith, Rahab the harlot, didn't perish with them that were disobedient, having received the spies in peace.
And it shall come to pass, when the death of the judge shall they return and have done corruptly above their fathers, to go after other gods to serve them, and to worship them; they have not fallen from their doings, and from their stiff way.
And there were found of Jabesh Gilead four hundred virgins, that had not known the bed of a man, and they brought them to the camp Shiloh, into the land of Canaan.
And Hannah answered and said, Nay, my lord, A woman in hard spirit I it, and wine and strong drink water; and pour out my soul before Jehovah:
Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even both his sword, his bow, and his girdle:
So they went up to the city. And as they were entering into the midst of the city, Samuel was coming forth to meet them, to go up to the high place.
Then said I, behold, I am come to do thy will, O God (as it is said of me in the roll of the book).
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah hath done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning you, and hath appointed thee prince over Israel,
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was builded.
For in very deed, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath kept me back from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.
On the morrow the people rose up early, and built an altar there, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
Now therefore stand up, that I may plead in judgment against you before Jehovah, concerning all the kindness of Jehovah, which he hath showed unto you, and to your fathers:
And when he came, behold, Eli was sitting on his seat by the way watching: for his heart trembled for God's ark. When the man came into the city, and told about it, all the city cried out.
not that in respect of want I say him: for I did learn in the things wherein I am to be content;
And they said, "There must be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted out of Israel.
And when he saw her, he rent his clothes, and said, "Alas, my daughter: Thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth, unto Jehovah, and I can't go back."
and the righteous shall live,' and `if he may draw back, My soul hath no pleasure in him,'
So Eli said unto Samuel, Go back: and if the voice come again, let your answer be, Say on, Jehovah; for the ears of thy servant hear. So Samuel returned to his bed.
For Christ hasn't entered into holy places made with hands; which are representations of the truth, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us;
Behold, this day your eyes have seen that Jehovah gave thee this day into my hand in the cave, and some said to kill you: but I pitied thee, and said, 'I will not stretch out my hand upon my lord, because he is Yahweh's anointed one.'
Abimelech went up unto mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it up, and laid it upon his shoulder; Then saith he to the people that were with him, "What thou hast seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done!"
for they, indeed, for a few days, according as seemed good to them, were chastening, but He for profit, to be partakers of his separation;
Gideon said unto them, "I do have a request, that thou wouldest each give me the ear-rings of his plunder." For they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
And this is the thing that ye shall do: Ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain by man.
looking diligently lest there be any man that falleth short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and many be defiled by it;
And the five men departed, and went to Laish; and they saw the people that were therein, dwell securely, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; and no one was in the land that possessed authority, that might put to shame in anything; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had nothing to do with man.
Behold, I will send the lad, saying, 'Go, find the arrows!' If I tell the lad, 'Behold, the arrows are on this side of you. Take them;' then come; for there is peace to you and safety, as Jehovah liveth:
I will draw unto you, to the river Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.'"
The trees went to anoint a king over them: and they said unto the oil-tree; Reign thou over us.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
And the children of Israel and when they had pursued after the Philistines, fell upon their camp.
and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fortified cities, and of country villages, even unto the great stone, whereon they set down Yahweh's ark. That stone abideth unto this day in the field of Joshua of and the goings out of
and he hath thirty sons and thirty daughters, he hath sent without and thirty daughters hath brought in to his sons from without; and he judgeth Israel seven years.
so that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of them in heaven and of them on earth and of them that are under the earth,
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat: and they gave him water to drink,
For we have found fault with them, he said, "Behold, the days come", saith Jehovah, "that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah;
And over it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy-seat; of which it is not needful to speak now particularly.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with the emerods, even Ashdod, and the borders thereof.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
Moreover we have had fathers of our flesh, for instructors, and we did reverence to them, shall we not much more obey the Father of spirits, and live?
And he said unto him, We are marching from Bethlehem-Judah toward the further side of mount Ephraim: from thence am I; and I went to Beth-lehem-judah went and I have to do with the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receiveth me into his house.
And he smote them thigh and thigh with a great slaughter. And he went down and dwelt in a cleft of the steep Etam.
for my father fought and laid down his life for you and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
And he asked for water; and she gave him milk. She brought him butter in a lordly dish.
And by faith Enoch was being interpreted, that he should not see death; and he was not; for God had interpreted, him: for before his translation he had testimony that he pleased God.
So take him to thy heart in the Lord with all joy, and reverence such as he is:
And when she came, she rose him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted from off of her donkey; and Caleb said, "What would ye like?"
then let us give diligence to enter into that rest, that no man may fall in the same pattern of disobedience.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites that could set whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
Naphtali drove not out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-anath; and he dwelt among the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land, but the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh with of Beth-anath, became tributary unto them.
And the people fell upon the spoil, and took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people did eat with the blood.
The captains of Issachar were with Debbora, and followed the steps of Barac, who uncovered himself to peril, as one going headlong, and into a pit. Reuben being divided against himself, there was found a strife of courageous men.
But the man would not spend the night, and he arose, and went: and he was come over against Jebus (the same is Jerusalem). and he had with him a pair of saddled asses and his concubine:
And Samson saith unto them, `Though ye thus, nevertheless I am avenged upon thee, and afterward I cease!'
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house at Ramah: And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel, and he said, "This one also Jehovah hath not chosen."
And they turned aside thither, to go in and to lodge in the hill: and when he went in, and sat him down in a street of the city: for there was no man that took them into his house to lodging:
Then said I, 'Behold, I have come in the roll of the book it is written of remember the God.' to do thy will, O
When the lad came up unto the place of the arrow that Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called out after the lad and said, "Is not the arrow beyond you?"
And on the fourth day they said unto Samson's wife, Get from thy husband the answer to his question before some craftiness, or other; or else we will have ye and your father's house burned with fire; did ye buy us here to take all we have?
And to them that were in Aroer, and to them that were in Siphmoth, and to them that were in Eshtemoa
So David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines. And they drove off their cattle and dealt them a heavy died. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Delilah took new ropes and bound him with them, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! Now there were liers-in-wait abiding in the chamber. And he brake them from off his arms like a web.
And they had no one to make arms, there were no more armed men in the towns thereof; was there a shield or a spear to be seen among forty thousand in Israel?
[It is] a terrible thing fell into the hands of living God.
Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spakest unto me.
And we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand to fetch victuals for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
Now Jonathan said, Behold, we go over unto the men, and are made manifest unto them;
for them in Hebron, and for all the places where David and his men had roamed.
And David dwelt in the wilderness in strongholds, and abode in the mountain in the wilderness of Ziph; And Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hand.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have done all this evil; only, turn not aside from following Jehovah and ye shall serve Jehovah with all thy heart,
Her father said, "I verily thought that ye utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to your mate. Isn't her younger sister, be red Take, I pray thee, her, instead." she be?
and besides faith it is impossible to please well, for these things must him that cometh to God to believe that he is and to them that seek him, He becometh a rewarder.
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
And he said unto his mother, "The eleven hundred pieces of silver, that were taken away from you, and whereof ye also pronounced a curse in my hearing, are with me; I took it." And his mother said, "Blessed be my son by Yahweh."
and having a great priest over God's house,
And when the spies saw a man leaving the city, they said unto him, "Please show us the door of the city, and we will deal kindly with you."
From year to year he went in turn to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, judging Israel in all those places.
Saul was even more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
And Samuel said unto the cook: Bring the portion, which I gave thee, and commanded thee to set it by thee.
"But the olive-tree said unto them, 'Should I leave my fatness, wherewith they honor God and man by me, and go to wave to and fro over the trees?'
And with whom was he angry forty years, was it not with them that did evil, that came to their deaths in the wilderness?
And for this very thing do ye also rejoice, and bless with me.
and have seen, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances then ye came out from the vineyards, and caught for ye every man his wife out of the daughters of Shiloh, and gone to the land of Benjamin:
So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's bolster; and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awaked: for they were all asleep: because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of Midian. Have not I sent thee?
And David left the things he was bearing in the hand of the keeper of the for removing, and ran into the ranks; and came and saluted his brethren.
and might deliver both whosoever, with fear of death, throughout all their life, were subjects of bondage,
And when they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levi: and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou here?
And she said, "May thy maid find favor in thy sight." Then the woman went on her way and did eat something and her face did not look sad any longer.
And they that were in ambush arose to fall out of their coverts, and while Benjamin turned their backs unto the slayers, went into the city, and smote it with the edge of the sword.
And the children of Israel removed the Baalim and the Ashtoreths, and they served Jehovah alone.
For we have found fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah; and I will perfect unto the house of Israel, and unto the house of Judah, a new covenant;
Now of the things which we have spoken, this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of majesty in the heavens,
But he himself turned again from the heweth out that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king, that said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
Now a man of God came to Eli and said unto him, "Thus saith Jehovah: 'Did I not clearly manifest myself unto thy father's house, when they were in Egypt under the house of Pharaoh?
When thou art gone away from me this day thou shalt see two men by the grave of Rachel's body, in the land of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they shall say unto you, The asses which ye sought be returned: and now thy father, and had respect no more for the asses, is troubled about thee, saying, What shall I do about my son?
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not; for who hath put forth his hand against the anointed of Jehovah, and been acquitted?'
And Saul sent messengers to the house of David to watch him, and to put him to death in the morning; and Michal his wife told David, saying, If thou art not delivering thy life to-night for to-morrow thou art put to death.'
We made an invasion upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon the border which belongeth to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag, with fire.
The man, the master of the house went out unto them, and said unto them, "No, my brethren, please don't deal so wickedly; since this man hath come into my house, don't do this folly.
They instructed the children of Benjamin, saying, "Go, in ambush in the vineyards,
Samuel said, "Just as thy sword bereaved women, so shall thy mother be bereaved among women!" Then Samuel hacked Agag in pieces in the presence of Jehovah to Gilgal.
and Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, in that we have sworn that we two shall in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah is between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed, for age;' And he arose, and goeth; and Jonathan entered into the city.
Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
And after him Elon the Zebulunites judgeth Israel, and he judgeth Israel ten years:
But Jonathan, having no knowledge of the oath his father had put on the people, stretched out the rod which was in his hand, put the end of it in the honey, and brought it to his mouth; then his eyes were made bright.
And having a great high priest, who is passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold knit unto our confession.
And Saul inquired of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him that day.
and he looked seven days, according to the word with Samuel, and Samuel hath not come to Gilgal, and the people are scattered from him.
and he saith unto them, Why do ye such things as these? for I am hearing of your evil words from all the people, these things.
Then three thousand of the men of Judah went down to the noise of the rock of Etam, and said unto Samson, Is it not to know that the Philistines are our rulers? What is this thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, I only did unto them as they did unto me.
but into the second, the high priest only, once a year, not without blood, which he offereth for himself and for the remnant of the people:
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God on the top of this stronghold in due showbread, and take a second bullock and offer it for a burnt-offering, with the wood of Asherah, that thou shalt cut down.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the valley, and put them in the bundle of his shepherd's bag which he had. His sling was in his hand; and he came near unto the Philistine.
And he said unto them, Thus saith Micah did for me, and he gave me and I became his priest.
And the two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in Horesh, and Jonathan departed unto his house.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and High priest of our confession; Christ Jesus:
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then thou hast done for me a sign that Thou art speaking with me.
Now Jonathan maketh and David a covenant, because he loveth him as his own soul;
And it came to pass, when they see him, that they take thirty companions, and they are with him.
And David said to Abiathar: I knew that day when endureth chiefs was there, that without doubt he would show Saul: I have been the occasion of the death of all the souls of thy father's house.
Thou made him for a short season, lower than the angels; ye crownest him with glory and honor;
And though he was a Son, through the pain which he abound unto us, even the knowledge came to him of what it was to be under God's commandments;
But I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at length thou hast quickened your anxious for me; in which ye did indeed shall bethink themselves but ye lacked opportunity.
And he had greaves of brass upon its legs, and a mark of brass between his shoulders.
And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass; what is the custom of the young man and his work?'
From that day Gedeon was called Jerobaal, because Joss had said, Let Baal avenge him on him that hath cast down his altar.
and Samuel said, What hast thou done?' And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from off me, and thou hadst not come at the word of the days, and the Philistines were gathered together to Michmash,
Then he that cometh out from the door of my house, meeting me when I come back in peace from the children of Ammon, shall be the Lord's and I will give him as a burnt-offering.
And it is yet more abundantly most evident: if according to the likeness of Melchisedek there shall arise another priest,
And when he had made an end of these words singing, he cast the jaw through out of his hand, and called the name of that place Ramathlechi, which is by the lifting up of the jawbone.
Of whom we have much to say, and hard to be intelligibly uttered: because thou art become weak to hear.
Samuel said, "How can I go? If Saul heareth it, he will slay me." Jehovah said, "Take a heifer with you, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
So the king said unto the guard, that were round about him, "Turn and kill the priests of Jehovah, because they also support David and because they knew that he was fleeing and did not disclose it to me." But the servants of the king were not willing to raise their hand to fight against the priests of Jehovah.
And Saul and his men went on the one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other side: and David's thought to get away with all speed, for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men were making compass David and his men in order to take them.
And he said unto her, Arise, let us be among them, but there was no answer; so he took her up and put her on the ass, and went on his way and came to his house.
And the messengers came in, and, behold, the image was in the bed, and the net of goats' at its head.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, and I will surely requite. and again, The Lord shall judge his people.
Be not turned away by diverse strange parties, because it is good for your hearts to be established by grace, and not by meats, which were of no profit to them that took so much trouble over them.
And the Holy Spirit also testifieth unto us, for after saying,
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear it, he will slay me; And the Lord said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
And the man Elkanah with all his family went up to make the year's oblation unto Jehovah, and to establish his oath.
And the men of Israel said, "Did ye behold this man that is come up? For he goeth up to defy Israel. And it shall be, that the man that defeats him, the king will make him very rich with great riches and will give him his daughter in marriage and will make his father's house free in Israel."
So Jonathan the son of Saul arose and went to David at Horesh, and encouraged him through God.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of his exhorting: for I wrote a letter unto you in few words.
and to whom did He swear that they shall not enter into his rest, but to them that have not believed? even
The Lord killeth and maketh alive, he hath brought down to Sheol and brought back again.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay ye, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And he smote them from Aroer, which is till thou come to Minnith, even twenty cities, and to Abelcheramim, with a very great slaughter. And the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
God also bearing them witness by signs and wonders and divers signs, and their of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will.
Now therefore, if ye have done truly and uprightly in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done unto him according to the worthy of his hands;
For we have found fault with them, he said, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah:
For this cause it is all the more necessary that we give heed to the things we have heard, lest we drift away.
And he went thither even unto Naioth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God is upon him, him also; and he waxed on, and he prophesyeth till he shall enter into Naioth in Ramah,
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will in no wise be put to shame, but with all boldness, as always, now Christ also shall be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death.
And he numbered them in Bezek, and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasure of the Egyptians. For he looked unto the reward.
So Michal let David down through the window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
And the citizens of Shechem set liers-in-wait for him on the tops of the mountains, and they robbed all that came by that way by them. And it was told Abimelech;
And by faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.
And David abode with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household: David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
Not that I did already obtain, or have been long ago, perfected; but I will pursue, though I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by the Christ Jesus:
And I entreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women who labored with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellowlabourers, that are written in the book of life.
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold, I and the children whom God hath given me.
(for the law made nothing complete), and in its place, there is a better hope, through which we come near unto God.
And they said unto him, Say now Shibboleth! and he said, Sibboleth, and did not rule to pronounce judged. Then they took him, and slew him at the fords of the Jordan. And there fell at that time of Ephraim forty and two thousand.
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites: and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
Marriage is glorious in all, and the bed undefiled; but fornicators and the adulterer God judgeth.
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard of that which the Philistines had done to Saul;
And David came to Nobe to Abimelech the priest: and Ahimelech wondered at David's coming. And he said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
So that their shares, and their shovels, and their flesh-hooks, and their axes were blunt, even to the goad, which was to be bound up,
Neglect not hospitality, because through this some have received angels as guests without knowing it.
Now while she was a long time in prayer before Jehovah, Eli was watching her mouth.
And when the Philistine, looked, and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair countenance.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have refused him: for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the appearance, but Jehovah looketh on the heart.
And he that beareth tidings answered and said, `Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and also a great slaughter hath been among the people, and also thy two sons are dead Hophni and Phinehas and the ark of God hath been captured.'
And David girding his sword upon his armor, began to try if he could walk in armour: for he was not wont to it. And David said to Saul: I cannot go thus, for I am not used to it. And he laid them off,
as to zeal, persecuted the congregation, as to righteousness which in law, found without reproach.
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, abode in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through thy prayer, and the staff of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all the house of thy father.'
because thou shalt conceive and bear a son. No razor shall touch his head, for the lad will be a Nazirite of God from birth. And he it is that will begin to deliver Israel from the hand of the Philistines."
And they took their bones, and hid them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
So Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel, and he and his men went to search for David toward the rocks are of the mount Goats.
So Manoah took the kid with the meal-offering, and offered it on the rock unto Jehovah. And the angel did an amazed thing as Manoah and his wife sight.
Now therefore hear thou also the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set before thee a morsel of bread, that thou mayest eat and recover strength, and be able to go on thy journey.
Then Manoah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, I pray thee, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes and lay them upon that rock, and pour out the broth thereon. And when he had done so.
Then Eli answered, "Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant your petition that thou hast asked of him."
And Saul said, Behold, I have done the commandments of Jehovah and are gone the way Jehovah sent me: I have taken Agag, the king of Amalek, and have given the Amalekite up to destruction.
And Saul called the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And when they had turned a little aside; they went into the house of the young man the Levite, who was in the house of Michas: and they asked him with words of peace.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and they entered there and took the graven graven image; ephod, teraphim, and the molten image. And the priest was standing at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with the weapons of war.
And Jotham hasted, and fled, and got to Beer: and dwelt there, from the face of Abimelech his brother.
Now Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, was judge of Israel at that time.
And David took the head of the Philistine, to Jerusalem, but the molten armor and the arms he put in his tent.
So that we, who are fled from danger to the hope which hath been set before us, may have a strong comfort in two everlasting things, in which it is not possible for God to be false;
And the sons of Dan raise up for themselves the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons may minister unto the tribe of the Danite, until the day of the captivity of [the people] of the land.
Then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cleft of the steep Etam, and said unto Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines rule over us? And what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
But when the judge was dead, they returned, and did evil more than their fathers, go after other gods to serve them, and their assembly; giving up nothing of their sins and their crooked ways.
And he called unto him all the men of Gilead, he fought against Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because he had said, Gilead is a fugitive of Ephraim, and dwelt in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.
And his brethren and all his kindred, going down took his body, and buried it between Zorah, and Esthaol in the burying-place, of his father Manue: and he judged Israel twenty years.
And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
My God will supply every need of yours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto them no more. And straightway Manue understood that it was an angel of the Lord
And they arose early and it came to pass about the fountain of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Up, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Shemuel, abroad.
But whatsoever things were gain unto me, these things I have considered loss because of Christ.
Then I laid hold upon my concubine and cut her into pieces, and I sent her throughout all the borders of Israel's heritage; For they committed a shameful and folly thing in Israel.
And the house was full of men and women, and all the rulers of the Philistines were thereabout three thousand men and women were on the roof watching accomplish Samson.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppressed you:
And David dwelt in the wilderness in strongholds; And he remained in the mountain in the wilderness of Ziph; And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.
If thy father at all miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beth-lehem his city: for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the house.
His eldest brother Eliab heard as he talked with the men, and Eliab was kindled against David and said, "Why hast thou come down this day, and with whom ye have left them few sheep in the wilderness? I know your presumptuousness and the evil of your heart; for thou art come down in order to see the battle!"
Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into the covenant of Jehovah with thee: notwithstanding, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
Aod went in unto him, now he was sitting in a summer parlour alone, and he said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he straightway rose up from his throne,
And by faith we understand the worlds wast created by the word of God, that what is seen did not come into beginning from what is seen.
Saul then called unto all the host for the battle, to go down to Keilah to lay a siege against David and his men.
And these ten parts of cheese thou shalt bring unto the captain of the thousand; find out how thy brethren do, and take their pledge."
Now Samson went unto Gaza, and there he saw a harlot and went in unto her.
having a golden censer; and the ark of the covenant, covered round in every part with gold, wherein the golden pot that had the manna, and the rod of Aaron that had grew, and the tables of the covenant;
and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, and Samuel lay in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was,
partly both with reproaches and afflictions being made spectacles, and partly having become partners of them so living,
And Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
Be not carried away with divers and strange doctrines; for [it is] good that the heart be confirmed with grace, not meats: them that have walked in which have not been been profited by it.
But she made him sleep upon her knees, and lay his head in her bosom. And she called a barber, and shaved his seven bolts thereof, and began to cast him away, and thrust him from her; for straightway his strength departed from him.
And the Philistine, grew and drew nigh unto David, and the man bearing the buckler before him,
And God doth so on that night, and there is drought upon the fleece alone, and upon all the earth there hath been dew.
Then he went down and talked unto the woman, and she pleased Samson.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah; so that place is called Mahaneh-dan unto this day. It is on the west side of Kiriath-jearim.
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?
And David went and his six hundred men went with him, and they came to the brook Besor.
and who can hearken unto you in this thing? for as the portion of him that was brought down to battle; so also the portion of him that is abiding by the vessels share.' alike they
Let love of the brethren remaining;
And Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and called the name of it Eben-ezer, and said, Hitherto Jehovah hath helped us.
And Moses surely kept faith as a servant, in all his house, and as a witness of the things which were to be said later;
Now Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And when the people of Ashdod, arose early on the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before Yahweh's ark: they took Dagon, and set it in its place again.
So the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and took up the ark of Jehovah to the house of Abinadab in Gibeah, and they made his son Eleazar holy and put the ark of his hand.
And all these people that are here this day may know that the Lord will not cast salvation by the sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's, and he will deliver thee into our hands.
Then answered David and said unto Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah brother to Joab, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul to over to Mahanaim; And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
Wherefore, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much rather in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan, and Saul sweareth, As Jehovah live, he shall not die.'
and if thou art afraid to go down together, go down, thou and Phurah thy young man, unto the camp,
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for us unto Jehovah thy God so that they die not, neither us; for besides all our sins we have done this evil, in asking a king.
Jesus Christ yesterday and this day the same, and for ever;
And all that generation was gathered unto their fathers; and there arose others that knew not Jehovah, and the works which he had done for Israel.
So all the people rose branches, every man felling a branch, and they went with Abimelech at their head and, tumult the branches against the inner chamber, put fire to the chamber over them; so all them that were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned to death with it.
And would that this people were under my hand: then would I remove Abimelech; and he said unto Abimelech; Increase thine army, and come out.
Saul commanded his servants, "Talk with David secretly, and say, 'Behold, the king delighteth in you, and all his servants love thee. Now therefore be the king's son-in-law.'"
And if their fathers or their brethren contend with us, we will say unto them, 'Allow us to have them, because we did not take a wife for each man in the battle, and because thou didst not give them unto them, or else thou hadst been guilty.'"
And David said to Achish, thou shalt see now what thy servant will do. And Achish said unto David, then will I bring thee keeper of my head for ever.
And he came to his father's house, to Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of for. seventy persons upon one stone; but there remained Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal; for he had hid himself.
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul.
Moreover Jehovah will deliver Israel also with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me. Jehovah will deliver the army of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines."
But unto Hannah he gave one member, though Hannah was dear unto him, but Jehovah had not give her children.
and the ambush shall haste and push against Gibeah, and the ambush draweth itself forth, and smote the whole of the city with the edge of the sword.
only that the generations of the children of Israel might know war by learning it, at the least them that before had known nothing thereof:
And David went thence to Mizpeh in Moab, and said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth among you, till I know what God will do for me.
So David sware this on oath to Saul; and Saul went to his house, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And Barak said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, and I will not go.
The Philistines followed hard after Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
She maketh a vow and said, "O Jehovah of hosts, if ye will look with compassion on the affliction of thy maid-servant, and will remember me, and not forget thy maid-servant, and will give to thy maid-servant a male child then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life; and a razor shall not pass over his head."
And Jehovah sent a very evil spirit between Abimelech and the inhabitants of Shechem? that began to defy,
And Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
And now, I pray thee, with my sin, and turn back with me, and I bow myself to Jehovah.'
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted and said, Let the king live.
And Saul saith unto his servants that stood beside him, Hear, I pray you, ye Benjamites: also to all of you shall the son of Jesse give fields and vineyards! all of you shall he appoint captains of thousands and captains of hundreds!
For it is evident that our Lord sprung out of Judah: wherein tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priests.
So Achish called David, and said unto him, "As Jehovah liveth, surely ye were honorable, and I will take pleasure to have you marching with me in the campaign. For I have not found anything amiss in you from the day ye came unto me unto this day, but in the sight of the rulers, thou art not good.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother's brethren, and spake unto them, and to all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
And the men of Israel turn in battle, and Benjamin began to smite the wounded among the men of Israel, about thirty men, for they said, Surely they shall be utterly put to the worse before us, as the first battle;
And it came to pass, when Israel sowed, that Midian came up, and Amalek, and the children of the east, and came up against them.
And the children of Israel being moved with repentance for their brother Benjamin, began to say, One tribe is taken away from Israel.
And now, behold, the king is before you: and I am old and grayheaded, and my sons are with thee: I have been a sojourner before your eyes from my youth until now.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: every male, and every woman knowing the lying with him, devote.'
and he said, All is well. to sacrifice unto Jehovah, I have come, sanctify yourselves, and ye have come in with me to the sacrifice;' and sanctified Jesse and his sons, and calleth them to the sacrifice.
But this man, after he had offered a sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;
Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done a foolish thing: ye have not obeyed the voice which Jehovah your God gave thee; it was the purpose of Jehovah to make your authority over Israel an everlasting foundation.
And the man, the master of the house went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, do not evil, I pray you, after that this man hath come in unto my house, do not this foolishness:
What shall we do for wives for them that remain? since we have sworn by Jehovah that we will not give them of our daughters for wives.
And the chiefs of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Neglect not thy power over him and see what is the mystery of his great strength, and how we may be too strong for him, and lay bands upon him, so that we may make him feeble: and each one of us will give you eleven hundred shekels of silver.
I press upon toward the end for the righteous, the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou shalt know that which Saul hath done, that he hath cut off them that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land; and why art thou laying a snare for my soul to put me to death?'
Then Abigail quickly took two hundred loaves and two skins full of wine and five sheep for bake and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred parcels of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them upon asses.
And the children of Israel turn back from burning after the Philistines, and spoil their camps.
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees,
And they gathered themselves together at Mizpeh, and draw, and pour out before Jehovah, and fast on that day, and say there, We have sinned against Jehovah;' and Samuel judgeth the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, turn in unto me; fear not. And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a robe.
For thou hast not come to something that can be handled, and to a fiery furnace; and he will darkness, and to the shadow of death, And to the whirlwind;
So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that expect him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
Then David smote them from twilight until the evening of the morrow. not a man of them escaped except four hundred young men that rode off on camels, and fled.
Now therefore let not my blood be poured out upon the earth before Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as the partridge is hunted in the mountains.
Her wise princesses answered and said unto her, Yea, she returned answer within herself,
that through two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we that have taken refuge may have mighty comfort and to cleave unto the hope set before us,
And he took it into his hands, and went on, eating as he went, and came to his father and mother, and gave to them, and they did eat, but he didn't tell them that he had taken the honey out of the lion's body.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken were restored to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and all the region round them Israel made free from the power of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the chamber and gave them a place at the head of them that were invited, and they were about thirty persons.
When Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed his anger burned.
But, one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, whose name was Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
And they remembered not Jehovah their God, who delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies round about:
Now David went to and from Saul looked after his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
And forasmuch as it is the portion of men once to die, and after this judgment;
She wept before him the seven days of their feast; and it came to pass, because she nagged him, on the seventh day he expounded the matter unto her, and she told the dark saying to her people.
thus also Christ being offered once in order to bear the sins of many, appeareth for the second time without respect of sin to them that wait for him for salvation.
and the hand of the children of Israel waxed greater and waxed hard upon Jabin king of Canaan, until they have cut off Jabin king of Canaan.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of them in heaven, them upon earth, and them that are under the earth,
All the saints salute thee, and especially those of the household of Caesar.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor;
that through two immutable things, wherein [it is] impossible for God to lie, a strong comfort we may have that did flee for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before it,
And when he numbered them in Bezek, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And to Abigail the wife of Nabal hath one young man of the youths declared, saying, Behold, David hath sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our lord, and he flieth upon them;
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father-in-law, the damsel's father said unto him, Behold, now the day draweth toward evening, I pray you, tarry all night; behold, the day groweth to an end, lodge here, that thy heart may be joyful: and to-morrow get you early in the way, that thou mayest go home.
And there came a man of God to Eli and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly manifest myself unto the house of thy father when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house,
And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
And there journey thence, of the family of the Danite, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, six hundred men girded with weapons of war.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat: but his servants and the woman urged him, and at length obey their voice, he arose from the ground and sat upon the bed.
And Gaal saw the people, and said unto Zebul, Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. And Zebul said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as men.
(Now Heber Kain had set apart himself from the Kenite, from the children of Hobab, Moses' father-in-law, and had pitched his tent as far as the oak of Zaannaim, which is by Kedesh.)
And David came to the two hundred men, who because of weariness had not gone with him, but were waiting at the brook Besor: and they went out, meeting David and the people that were with him; and when they came near them, they said, How art thou?
And all these being approved of the testimony of faith, received not promise.
Then Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, and if ye take me back to make war against the children of Ammon, and if with the help of Jehovah I overcome them, wilt thou make me thy head?
Except haply thou art better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, And canst show that he strove against Israel and fought against him,
And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me; forasmuch as when Jehovah had delivered me into thy hand, thou killedst me not.
So the sin of the young men was very great in the sight of Jehovah, because the men treated the oblation of Jehovah with contempt.
Then said Saul unto him, "Whose son are you, young man?" And David said, "I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."
So the people sent to Shiloh. and they brought from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, that sitteth above the cherubim: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And all the seven days of the feast she mourned over him; and on the seventh day he gave her the answer, because she gave him no peace; and she sent word of it the children of her people.
And I would have you brethren, know that the things concerning me, rather to an progress of the gospel have come,
Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, army against host.
And they told Jotham, and he went up and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and he cried out loud and said unto them, "Listen unto me, lords of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And he came to the folds by the way, where was a cave, and Saul went in to refresh himself. Now David and his men were in the innermost parts of the cave.
and she arose, and bowed down with her face to the ground, and said, "Here is thy maid-servant, as a slave, to wash the feet of my lord's servants."
When ye come there thou shalt come to a people living without thought of my hand; and the land is wide, and God hath given it before thee: a place where there is everything on earth for man's needeth.
Then Abimelech they journeyed from thence came to the city of No, which he compassed and besieged with his army.
And Saul said, So God do so do, and more also, but thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.'
To the great meeting and church of the first of them that are called in heaven, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of good men made entire,
For blood of bullocks and goats ere of taking away sins.
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together from all their cities to Gibeah, to go forth to war with the children of Israel.
So then, return and go in peace, so that ye will not do something that despiseth the rulers of the Philistines."
And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our family hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favor in thy sight, I will fetch away, I pray thee, and see my brethren: therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.
But behold, there arose a sedition in Ephraim. And passing toward the north, they said unto Jephte: When thou wentest to fight against the children of Ammon, wherefore hast thou not call us, that we may go with thee? Therefore we will burn thy house.
And he said unto him, Oh, my lord, wherewith do I save Israel? behold, my chief weak in Manasseh, and I the least in the house of my father.'
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And told him that Saul had slain the priests of the Lord.
I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that seeing him ye might again rejoice, and that I might be the less faint.
And blessed be thy discernment, And blessed be thou, who hast kept me this day from coming with the slaughter, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
And carry these ten little cheeses to the tribune: and go see thy brethren, if they are well: and learn with whom they are laid.
He told her all his heart, and said unto her, "No razor hath ever come upon my head; for I have been a Nazirite unto God from my mother's womb. If I am shaven, then my strength shall go from me, and I will become weak, and be like any other man."
And the Holy Spirit also beareth witness this to us. For after that he said,
and said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, have I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and I deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppress you;
So they gathered to Mizpah, and drew water and poured it out unto Jehovah, They fasted on that day and said there, "We have sinned against Yahweh!" So Samuel judged the children of Israel at Mizpah.
without father, without mother, without genealogies; having neither beginning of days nor end of life; But assimilated to the Son of God, abideth a priest continually.
If he is able to fight with me, and he defeats me, then we shall be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, and defeat him, then ye shall be our servants and ye shall serve us."
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, "Go in this thy strength, and ye shall deliver Israel from the palm of Midian. Did I not send you?"
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to stir him in the camp of Dan, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And the elders of the congregation say, What shall we do unto the remnant for wives for the women have been destroyeth out of Benjamin?'
Then the Philistine, came on, rising nearer and nearer to David, with his shield bearer before him.
And the man said, Israel fled from the Philistines, and there hath been great destruction among the people, and thy two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God hath been taken.
For if the blood of goats, and of oxen, and the ashes of a heifer being sprinkled, sanctify such as are defiled, to the purification of the flesh:
and Michal took the teraphim, and laid it on the bed, and the mattress of goats' she hath put his head, and covered with a garment;
By so much, Jesus is become the surety of a better covenant.
and they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, Know thou Jehovah, because they shall all know me from the small one of them unto the great one of them,
Now Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed: and Jonathan went into the city.
And he said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear me now; ye sons of Jemini: will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields, and vineyards, and make you all the chief captains, and centurions:
And when they had set them on fire he let the foxes go, that they might run about hither and thither. And they immediately went into the standing grain of the Philistines. Which being set on fire, both the grain that was already carried together, and that which was yet fail thereof was all insomuch, that the flame consumed also the vineyards and the oliveyards.
And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands, but David and his men passed on in the rearward with Achish.
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine, of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the flocks of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words; and David heard it.
And early in the morning they rose up, and after worshipping before Jehovah they returned to Ramah, to their house: and Elkanah knew his wife; and Jehovah saved her in mind.
And so, as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day, oh that ye let his voice ye hear,
And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not:
Dalila bound him again with these, and cried out, And the Philistines are upon thee, Samson, there being an ambush prepared for him in the chamber. But he brake the bands like warp, or in pieces.
and the watchmen see a man coming forth out of the city, and say unto him, Show us, we pray thee, the entrance of the city, and we have done with thee kindness.'
And after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where are the outposts of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou comest thither, into the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with psaltery and timbrel and pipe and harp before them; and they themselves soothsaying.
Of the men of Israel also, beside the children of Benjamin, were found four hundred thousand that drew sword, and were prepared to battle.
And her father said, it seemed unto me that ye had only hate for her; so I gave her to thy neighbor; But is not her younger sister, fairer than she be? so I pray thee, take her instead of the other.
Are they not all spirits betrothed in special service, brought on province for the sake of them that went to inherit salvation?
And he restored them to his mother: and she took two hundred pieces of silver, and gave them unto the silversmith, to make of them a graven and a molten god, which was in the house of Michas.
And the emptiers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned the way of Ophrah, into the land of Shual;
then I said, Lo, I come, in a roll of the book it is written of me,) to do, O God, thy will;'
And he arose early in the morning in the fifth day to depart; and the young lady's father said, "Please strengthen thy heart, and tarry till the day declines"; and they both did eat.
Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child and about to be delivered. And when she heard the tidings concerning the take of the ark of God and that her father-in-law and her husband was dead, she went into labor and gave birth, because her sorrows came upon her.
Look on Jesus, the Prince and finisher of faith, that having joy set before him, endured the cross, despiseth the shame, and now sitteth on the right hand of the throne of God.
And Samuel became elder, and Jehovah was with him, and let not one of his words be without effect.
And he said unto Zebah and unto Zalmunna; How the men whom ye slew in Tabor?' and they said, Should thou so they, As the form of the king's sons.'
and unto the Son; Thy throne, O God, to the course of the age; a sceptre of righteousness the sceptre of thy reign;
But man hath haply bare witness, saying, "What is man, that thou art mindful of him? Or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And Saul clothed David with his garments, and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and armed him with a coat of mail.
And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men every man with his household, even David and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.
"So then, if ye have done in truth and sincerity in making Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with Jerub-Baal and his house, and have dealt with him according to his accomplishments
whose end destruction, whose god the belly, and whose glory in their shame, that the things on earth are minding.
Then said Samuel unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and restore the kingdom there.
Why do ye kick at my sacrifice and at my oblation, which I have commanded in my habitation, and honor thy sons more than me to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel my people?'
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they together smote all the Canaanites that dwelt in Sephaath, and slew them. And the name of the city was called Hormah, that is, Anathema.
And Saul said to his servant, Behold, we will go; but what shall we carry to the man of God? the bread is spent in our bags: and we have no tribute to make to the man of God, nor anything at all.
And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
Concerning zeal, persecuted the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who was he that said, Is Saul to be our king? give the men up, so that we may put them to death.
Having this confidence I know that I shall remain, yea, and abide with you all, for thy progress and joy in the faith,
In faith died all these, not having received the promises; but from afar when he saw them, and having been persuaded, and we saluted them, and having confess that strangers and sojourners they are upon the earth,
Then came David to This very Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And my God will fulfil thy every need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not, hast thou wrought all this evil: but yet depart not from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And in the same place he saith again, They shall not come into my rest.
Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Then the sign went up out of the city that is in the pillar of smoke, and the Benjamites, turned back, and saw all the city ascended up in smoke to heaven.
So Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came without the camp in the beginning of the midst watch, they and they had but Which are set the watch: and they blew the trumpets, and brake the flagons thereof, that were in their hands.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible; but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:
Let the love of the brotherhood abide in you.
So he cometh to the men of Succoth and said, Here are Zebah and Zalmunna; because of whom ye mocked me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna; even now in thy hand, that we are to give bread to thine army that are overcome with weariness?
And he found a new jaw through of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith.
And he said, 'Please let me go, for our family hath a sacrifice in the city. my brother hath commanded me to be there. And now, if I have found favor in thy sight, I pray thee, let me go away and see my brothers.' Therefore he hath not come to the king's table."
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not smitten: neither erred concerning we anything, as long as we were with them, when we were in the field.
And the men of Israel said unto Gideon, about; And over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also; for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant is certainly heard that Saul is seeking to come in unto Keilah, to destroy the city on mine account;
But a certain terrible expectation of justice, and heat of fire about to devour the adversaries.
He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters whom he sent unto other places, and he rose thirty wives from other places for his sons. And he was judge of Israel seven years.
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any mighty man, or any valiant man he took him to himself.
And Zebah saith and Zalmunna; even Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man and his might;' and Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna; and took their round ornaments which upon the necks of their camels.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son-in-law a second time.
And it came to pass, as she multiplied supplications before Jehovah, that Heli observed her mouth.
And Samuel died, and all Israel was gathered together, and they mourned for him, and buried him in his house in Ramatha. And David arose, and went down into the wilderness of Paran.
And to cut off his head, and taking away his armor, they sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to take the tidings unto their idols, and to the people.
And they said unto him, Come thou and be our prince, and fight against the children of Ammon.
for we also are having good tidings preached to them. even as they, but the word heard did not profit them, not being mingled with faith in those that heard
And David said, Shall the possessors of Keilah shut me up, and my men, into the hand of Saul?' And Jehovah said, They shut up.'
Saul said unto his servants, "Provide me now a man who can play well, and bring him to me."
But David laid up these words in his heart, and was exceeding afraid at the face of Achis the king of Gath;
And they said, Who is one out of the tribes of Israel who hath not come up unto Jehovah to Mizpeh?' and, behold, none shall come in unto the camp from Jabesh-gilead even unto the assembly.
And she took him up with her when she had weaned him, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah to Shiloh. and the boy was young.
And it came to pass, when David and his men to Ziklag, on the third day, that the Amalekite have brought unto the south, and unto Ziklag, and smite Ziklag, and burn it with fire,
And the olive-tree answered, 'Should I stop yielding my oil, which by me; gods and men have glory, to go hang over the trees?'
And Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into my hands,
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I brought them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regard them not, saith Jehovah.
So Jehovah the God of Israel destroyed the Amorite, his people of Israel fighting against him, and wilt thou now possess this land?
And the Philistines seized him, and put forth his eyes, and brought him down unto Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he had to grind in the prison.
Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand. And they smote ten thousand men in Bezek.
(for they were not able to bear what was enjoined: And if a beast should touch the mountain, it shall be stoned.
Country cities were no more in Israel, king's entry without, were no more, until you, Deborah came up, until ye came up as a mother in Israel.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the battle was captain through all the hill-country of Ephraim; but Saul made a great error that day, by putting the people under an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth before evening cometh and I have given vengeance to them that are with me. So the people had not a taste of food.
Now these are the gold images which the Philistines sent as a sin-offering unto Jehovah; one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron;
And Abimelech said unto the king, and said, And who among all thy servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son in law, and went forth at thy word; and is glorious in thy house?
Wherefore, leaving the word of the beginning of the Christ, let us go on [to what belongs] unto a fullgrown man, not lay it again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God,
Abimelech and the companies that were with him rushed forward, and stood at the door of the gate of the city; and the two companies rushed upon all that were in the field, and smote them.
His concubine who was in Shechem also bare a son, and he called his name Abimelech;
And David's two wives were taken away captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
'Curse Meroz,' saith the angel of Jehovah, 'curse bitterly the inhabitants thereof, because they did not come to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.'
Some indeed, even through envy and contention, And certain also through good-will, do preach the Christ;
But this one, after he had offered a sacrifice for sins for all time, sat down at the right hand of God,
They shall be rolled up like a cloth, even as a robe, and they shall be changed: but ye are the same And thy years shall have no end.
And a while after, when the days of wheat harvest, and were at hand, Samson came, desiring to visit his wife, and he brought her a kid of the flock. And when he would have gone into her chamber as usual, her father would not suffer him, saying,
And he went he also into Ramath, and came to the great well which in Sechu, and asked him, and said, Where is Samuel and David?' and said, Behold, in Naioth in Ramah.'
In Israel's dwelt in Heshbon, and in its towns, and in Aroer and in its towns, and in all the cities which is by the sides of the Arnon three hundred years old, and wherefore have ye not delivered them in that time?
(For those were made priests without an oath, but this one was made a priest with an oath by him that saith of him, Jehovah gave the oath which he will not take back, that thou art a priest for ever);
The mighty men ceased, and rested in Israel: until Debbora arose, a mother arose in Israel.
Jonathan said unto David, "By Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have sounded my father to-morrow about this time or the third day, behold, if there is good toward David, won't I then send unto you, and disclose it unto thee?
And they forsook Jehovah, and they served Baal and the Ashtaroth.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh, and passed to Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And thou shalt say to him that I will punish his family for ever, for the sin which he had knowledge of; because his sons have been cursing God and he had no power over them.
And she said unto her servants, Pass over before me; behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal.
And he went thither to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah:
I beseech of Evodia, and I beseech Syntyche, to be of the same mind in the Lord.
and Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, 'Go, and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them, until they are consumed.'
So they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them near Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
And the Philistines, affrighted, said, God hath come into their tents. And they said, Woe unto us! for never before hath such a thing appear.
Let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good works,
And we desire that every one of you show forth the same earnest care to the accomplishing of hope unto the end:
For he testifieth, Thou art a priest for ever After the order of Melchisedec.
For if the word which came through the angels was fixed, and in the past every evil deal against God's a decree was given its full punishment thereof;
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and thither fled all the men and women, all the citizens of the city; and they shut it behind them, and went up to the roof of the tower.
And Saul said, Be ye scattered among the people, and ye shall say unto them, Bring ye so nigh unto me every man his ox, and every man his sheep; and ye have slain in this place, and eaten, and ye shall not sin against Jehovah to eat with the blood.' And all the people bring nigh every man his ox, in his hand, that night, and kill there.
and Jesse said unto his son David, Take now for your brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten cakes of bread, and run with them to the camp to your brethren;
Now Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and that he had put on, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
And when he had called the ark of God, he fell from his stool backward by the door, and brake his neck, and died. for he was an old man, and well stricken in years; and he judged Israel forty years.
And Saul gave his servants commandments saying, Have talk with David secretly and say unto him, Behold how the king delighteth in you, and how ye are beloved of all his servants, then be the king's son-in-law.
Do I lack madmen that thou hast brought this one to feign thyself to be a madman before me? shall this one enter my household?"
For the two wives also of David were taken away captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem a priest of the Most High God, who gave Abraham his blessing, finding him, when he returned after putting the kings to death,
But though we are speaking in this way, beloved, we are reproved by better things concerning you, and belonging to salvation.
Now Heber the Kenite, which was of the children of Hobab, the father in law of Moses, had set apart himself from the Kenite, and pitched his tent unto the plain of Zaanaim, which is by Kedesh.
We have straw and hay for provender of the asses, and bread and wine for the service of myself and of thy handmaid, and of the servant that is with me: we want nothing but lodging:
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the people, and kill, as at the other times, in the highways, whereof one went up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.
And David left neither man nor woman alive, to bring to Gath, for he said, Lest they should tell of us, saying, Thus did David. And such was his custom as long as he abode in the country of the Philistines.
Then Jesse made Shammah come before him; and he said, Jehovah hath not taken this one.
'Curse Meroz,' said Yahweh's angel. 'Curse bitterly the inhabitants thereof, because they didn't come to help Jehovah, to help Jehovah against the mighty.'
For this cause God hath put him in the ascent and hath given to him the name which is greater than every name;
And by faith also Sarah herself received strength for conception of seed, and beyond a seasonable age; since she counted him faithful that spoken.
Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpeh.) Then said the children of Israel: Tell us, how was this wickedness?
Then a champion went out from the camps of the Philistines, whose name was Goliath from Gath, his height was six cubits and a span.
and we are persuaded, concerning you, beloved, the things that are better, and brought salvation, though even so we speak;
As Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines came near to battle against Israel; but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day on the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten down before Israel.
And they said, How is the rest of Benjamin to be given seed so that one tribe of Israel may not be put out of divinity;
And David said to Ahimelech, And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for neither my sword nor my vessels have I taken in my hand, for the matter of the king was urgent.'
Now therefore, my lord, as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withheld thee from blood guiltiness, and from avenging thyself with your own hand, now therefore let your enemies, and those that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.
The mountains melted from before Jehovah, even that Sinai from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah, and Zebul drove out Gaal and his brethren from living in Shechem.
of whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called to thee;'
And they walked through the wilderness; and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east of the land of Moab, and encamped beyond the Arnon, but came not within the border of Moab, for the Arnon is the border of Moab.
And they smote on that day among the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon, and the people are very weary,
And when David and his men came to the city, they saw it, and it was burned with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters had taken captive.
Now unto our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities, twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, that were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
yea, indeed, and I count all things to be void, because of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, because of whom of the all things I suffer loss: and do count them to be refuse to let them go, that Christ I may gain; and be found in him,
When Zebul the governor of the city, heard the words of Gaal son of Ebed he was very wroth,
only that the generations of the children of Israel may know? to teach them war, at least them that knew nothing of circumcise:
when it was said, `To-day, if his voice ye may hear, ye may not harden your hearts in the provocation,'
Yet to walk in the flesh is more necessary because of thee.
But one of the young men told Abigal Nabal's wife, saying, "Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to Salute our master; and he reproached them.
But as Jehovah liveth, the God of Israel that hath restrained me from harming you, if thou hadst not hasted and come to meet me, surely there should not have been one male left alive for Nabal by the light of morning!"
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, So great is the number of thy people, that if I give the Midianites into their hands they shall over me, and shall say, I have been my Saviour.
But the lad didn't know nothing. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
When the host came to the forest, behold, honey they trickle not; but no man put his hand unto his mouth, for the army was afraid of the solemn oath.
And the me, up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the forest, on the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the waste?
And Eli very old, and hath heard all that his sons do unto all Israel, and how that they lie with the women that are gathering together the door of the tent of meeting,
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb to the day of his death.
By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come.
But in these [there is] a calling to mind of sins yearly.
But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto Harosheth of the nations; and all the host of Sisera, fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, and being made like to the Son of God, abideth a priest continually.
Then the children of Dan went on their way; and when Micah saw that they were stronger than he, he departed unto his house.
Have we need of madmen, that thou hast brought in this fellow, to play the mad fellow in my presence? shall this fellow come into my house?
And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, retained him, and he abode with him three days; and they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
Brethren, be imitators together of me, and mark them that walk so as ye have us for an ensample.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued after the Philistines, and smote them, as far as below Beth-car.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
After him Abesan of Beth-lehem judged Israel:
Now there was a young man living in Beth-lehem-judah of the family of Judah and a Levite, that was not a townsman of the place.
But the people took of the spoil sheep and oxen, as the first-fruits of the things that were slain, to burn incense unto Jehovah their God in Gilgal.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah, for ye have pity upon me;
And let this oblation, which thy servant did unto my lord, be given to the young men that are with my lord.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the man, the robber, through the street of the city, and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?'
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Samson's wife, Persuade thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire. Have ye bidden us to beat down us,is it not it?
And the Spirit of Jehovah turned aside from Saul, and a spirit of sadness from Jehovah terrified him;
Pray for us; for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience; desiring to live honorably in all things.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had mourned for him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. Saul had put away them that had familiar spirits the wizards, out of the land.
And he stayed yet other seven days according to the word of Samuel, I and Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the people slipt away from him.
And Gideon went up the way of them that tabernacle in tents, on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the camp, and the camp was confident;
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah In those days the ark of the covenant of God was there,
And when the morning came, Jonathan went into the field, according to the word with David, and a lad with him.
At thy going into the city so shall ye find him, before he shall go up into the high place to eat; for the people will not eat, until his coming for he shall bless the sacrifice; afterwards they eat, that are called, and now, go up, for at this time ye find him.'
The men of Israel and Judah rose up, raised the shout; and pursued after the Philistines as far as the valley even unto the gates of Ekron. So the slain of the Philistines fell on the way to Shaaraim up to Gath and as far as Ekron.
And almost all things are by the law purged with blood; and without shed blood is no remission.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment befall thee for this thing.
So Christ, having at his first coming taken on himself the sins of men, shall be seen a second time, without sin, by them that wait for him, for their salvation.
Be not hearer that of hospitality; for by it some have unwittingly entertained angels.
Without father, without mother, without seed, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually.
So David and Abishai came down to the host by night: and Saul was sleeping within the ring of wagons with his spear planted in the earth by his head; and Abner and the people were sleeping round about him.
Then all the trees said unto the acacia, Thou come and be king over us.
To which of the angels did God say at any time, Thou art my Son, this day I have given you being? or, I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?
Then the five men departed, and went to hearken, and saw the people that were therein, how they dwelt careless, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; and there was no captain in the land, that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with any man.
"The kings came and warred, then the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo. And they took no spoil of silver.
Wherefore, leaving the word of the beginning of the Christ, unto the perfection we may grow, not again a foundation laying of repentance from dead works, and of faith on God,
The man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and layeth wait in a valley;
Saul also sent messengers unto David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning: and Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou save not thy life unto night, to-morrow thou shalt be slain.
that we may be as all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles."
And when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
Because thou hast not obey Jehovah, and have not carry out the fierce anger of his wrath against Amalek, therefore Jehovah hath done this thing unto you this day.
Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, that no man may fall after the same example of not obey the word.
but ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, seventy persons, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his maid-servant, king over the citizens of Shechem, because he is thy brother;
But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, girded with a linen ephod.
David answered and said, "Here is the king's spear; let one of the young men come over and take it.
Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God, what have we?
The bows of the men of war were broken, and the feeble are clothed with strength.
Benjamin returned in that day; and they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh Gilead. There yet weren't enough for them.
Go, send up thy cry unto the gods of your selection; let them be your saviours in the time of your trouble.
And when they had made an oblation of the ox, they took the young child to Eli.
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever After the order of Melchisedec.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon, and he blew the trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered after him.
So he went up from thence to Penuel and made the same request to the men of Penuel; but they gave him the same answer as the men of Succoth had given.
So Manoah took a kid with a meal-offering, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah: and the angel did wonderously; and Manoah and his wife looked on.
Then Deborah said unto Barak, Arise, for to-day Jehovah hath given Sisera, before thee: hath not Jehovah gone out before thee? So Barak went down from mount Tabor and ten thousand men after him.
lest there be any fornicator, nor profane person, like Esau, that sold his birthright for one meal.
And David with four hundred men, went on: and two hundred of them were overcome with travail, and not able to go over the stream,
And Jehovah sent thee by the way, and said, Go, and thou hast devoted the sinners, the Amalekites, and fought against them, till they are consumed;
Why dwellest thou between two borders, that thou mayest hear the bleatings of the sheep? Reuben being divided against himself, there was found a strife of courageous men.
And the Philistines were gathered together, and came and encamped in Sunam: and Saul also gathered together all Israel, and came to Gilboa.
And they turned aside there to enter and to abide by Gibeah. And they went and sat in the court of the city, but no man took them in to lodge night.
because that by reason of the work of the Christ he drew nigh unto death, having hazarded the life that he might fill up your deficiency of service unto me.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for when the south land thou hast given me then shalt thou given me springs of water; and Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
And we are not able to give unto them wives out of our daughters, for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.'
Now the day before Saul came, the word of God had come to Samuel, saying,
And they sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together; for the damsel's father had said unto the man, Be pleased, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And there was a wonder in the camp, through the fields; yea and all the people of their garrison, that went out to plunder, were amazed, and the earth tremble; and it came to pass, as a wonder from God.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And Saul sought to slay David even to the wall with the javelin: but he crept away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the javelin into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
and he came in, and behold, Eli sitteth upon the throne by the side of the way, looking, for his heart was lifted trembling for the ark of God, and the man came to declare in the city, and all the city crieth out.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, who was of the least tribe of Israel, and my kindred the last among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then hast thou spoken this word unto me?
But my righteous man shall dwell by faith, and if he shrinks again, my soul is not well pleased with him."
The men of Israel said unto Gideon, "Rule over us, both ye and your sons, and your sons' son, for thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Midian.
And I will draw unto thee to the river Kishion Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And when she thrust him much, and continually hanged upon him for many days, giving him no time to rest, his soul fainted away, and was wearied even unto death.
And the Philistines warred, and Israel was smote, and they fled every man to his tent. And there was a very great slaughter; for thirty thousand footmen; of Israel fell.
And he brake down the tower of Phanuel, and slew the men of the city.
For he longed after you all: and was sorrowful; for that ye had heard that he was sick.
and that the most of the brethren, trust in Lord through my bonds, dare more abundantly to speak the word of God perfect: Suddenly do
And a great number of the people had gone over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead; but Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people went after him shaking in fear.
though I also have [cause of] trust in flesh. If any other man thinketh himself to have trust in flesh, I more;
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and the Lord deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
Now Jonathan said, Behold, we will go over to these men. And when we shall be seen of them,
Now when David and his men were come to Ziklag, on the third day, the Amalecites had made an invasion on the south side upon Ziklag, and had smitten Ziklag, and burn it with fire.
And it came to pass, when he made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan hath been bound unto the soul of David, and Jonathan loveth him as his own soul.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal, (for I will come down to thee, that thou mayest prepare a meal-offering, and sacrifice sacrifices of peace: seven days shalt thou wait, O until I come unto thee, and I will show thee what thou art to do.
And there is nothing made which is not utterly known unto him; there is nothing covered, but not all things are open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
And Ehud, came unto him; and he was sitting in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone. And Ehud, said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he rose up from his seat:
And when be had taken it in his hands, he went on eating: and coming to his father and mother, he gave them of it, and they did eat. but he would not tell them, that he had taken the honey out of the body of the lion.
And they sent messengers to the people that dwell in Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah; come and take it up to your country.
And he said unto them, Out of the devourer came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days declare the riddle.
Saul said unto his uncle, "He told us plainly that the asses were found." But in the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he didn't tell him.
And it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath; and he sought no more for him.
But other Michal the daughter of Saul loved David. And it was told Saul, and it pleased him.
Likewise all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
And he talked with them, and behold, a man of the duellists cometh up, Goliath the Philistine, his name, of Gath, out of the flocks of the Philistines, and he speaketh according to those words, and David heareth,
And Jehovah said unto him, I will be with thee; and thou shalt cut off Midian as one man.
For unto me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
They troubled and oppressed the children of Israel that year. For eighteen years, they oppressed all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
and he said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be to-day one tribe lacking in Israel?
And he returned the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother thought, "I will surely sanctify unto Jehovah the pieces of silver from my hand for my son to make an idol molten calf: now therefore, I pray thee, I will return them to you."
Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man; he will was the son of a harlot, and Gilead was his father.
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and they gleaned five thousand men of them in the highways, and followed hard after them to Gidom, and smote two thousand men of them.
And the land had rest forty years, then Othniel the son of Kenaz, died.
and he said, Wherefore wilt my lord is pursuing after his servant? for what have I done, and that which was in my hand evil?
The men of Judah said, "Why are ye come up against us?" And they said, "We are come up to bind Samson, to do to him as he hath done to us."
Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish. who was of Gallim.)
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites; Hittite, and Amorites and Perizzites and Hivite, and Jebusite;
and she called the lad I-Chabod, saying, Honor is departed from Israel,' because of the taking of the ark of God, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
That all of you seek me, and not one of you gave me word when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse, and not one of you hath pity for me or hath made mine eyes open unto thy beauty, and my servant hath been moved by my son against me, as at this day?
And the name of that place was called The place of weepers, or of tears: and there they offered sacrifices unto Jehovah.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me: for he hath found favor in my eyes.'
The valley of Kishion swept them away, that ancient stream, the brook Kishon; My soul, thou hast set at nought strength!
And the house of Joseph go up even they to Beth-el, and Jehovah with them;
And the number of them that lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, were three hundred men; but all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
Because thou obeyedst not the voice of Jehovah, nor executedst his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
But Jonathan didn't hear when his father commanded the people with the oath. Therefore he put out the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in the honeycomb, and put his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes brightened.
This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, a hope both sure and stedfast and they went into that which is within the veil;
And the angel of Jehovah went up from Gilgal, unto Bokim and said, "I brought you up out of Egypt, and I brought you into the land which I had promised unto your fathers. I said, 'I shall never break my covenant with you.
Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, and he said unto them, "Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: 'I brought you up out of Egypt; I brought you out of the house of bondage.
Then Jephthah came back to his house in Mizpah, and his daughter came out, meeting him on his way with timbrels and with dances; she was his only child; he had no other sons or daughters.
For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, And God did rest the seventh day from all his works.
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country.
And David went up and his men, and they push unto the Geshurites and the Gerizite, and the Amalekites, (for they are inhabitants of the land from of old), as thou goest in unto Shur and unto the land of Egypt,
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Jehovah be witness amongst us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And the men of Israel have been distressed on that day, and Saul charged them with an oath the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food until the even; and I have been avenged of mine enemies;' and none of the people have tasted food.
And the Philistines, hearing the noise of their cry, said, What is this great cry among the tents of the Hebrews? whom I found to them that the ark of Jehovah had come to the camp.
that ye may not become sluggard, but imitators of them that through faith and patience are inheriting the gifts falsely.
For both he that sanctifieth and them that are sanctified are all from one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
After Abimelech, Tola, son of Puvah, son of Dod, a man of Issachar, rose up to deliver Israel; and he dwelt at Shamir in the hill-country of Ephraim.
But Samson slept until midnight. and then rising he took both the doors of the gate, with the posts thereof, and the thunder; and laid them on his shoulders, carried them up to the top of the ascent, which looketh toward Hebron.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon you with power, and ye shall be and playedst the prophet with them, and shall be turned into another man.
Because it be given unto you on behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer on his behalf,
And when they had come, he looked upon Eliab, and said, "Surely Yahweh's anointed is before him."
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah to Mizpeh;
And it said, Can I leave my fatness, which both gods and men make use of, to come to be promoted among the trees?
But if I say this to the young man, 'Look, the arrows are beyond you,' go, for Jehovah hath sent you away.
Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Be our ruler, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son after him; for thou hast been our Redeemer from the hand of Midian.
And the thing was evil in the sight of Samuel, when they have said, Give us a king to judge us;' and Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
Now when Saul had taken the kingdom over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom; and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines. whithersoever he turned himself, he smote them:
And he went to Najoth in Ramatha, and the spirit of Jehovah came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied until he came to Najoth in Ramatha.
Why then didst thou not hearken to the voice of Jehovah: but hast turned to the prey, and hast done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
It is for the reproof which ye endure; God parts with you as with children, for what son is there whom his father doesn't discipline?
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us.
and he brought near the tribe of Benjamin after their families, and the family of Matri is taken, and Saul the son of Kish is taken, and they seek him, and he hath not found.
If then shall there be any comfort in Christ, any help given by love, any and play the of heart in the Spirit, any tender mercy and merciful,
The name of his first-born son was Joel, and the name of his second son was Abijah. They were judges in Beer-sheba.
But the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel and they said, "No, but there shall be a king over us,
And Jehovah sent thee in a way and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them, until they be consumed.
And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up unto us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me: for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
Hear, ye "Hear, ye us: yea princes! I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praise to Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.
Then sang Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, on that day, saying,
Then said he unto all Israel, "You shall be on the one side, and I and my son Jonathan shall be upon the other." And the host said unto Saul, "Do that which is good in thy eyes."
And the people repent me of Benjamin, for Jehovah had made a breach among the tribes of Israel.
And the other wife did everything possible to make her unhappy, because Jehovah had not give her children;
The mountains quaked before Jehovah, this Sinai, at the presence of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, "Give us a king to judge us." Samuel entreated Jehovah.
There was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And David answered the priest, and saith unto him, `Surely, if women have been restrained from us as heretofore: in my going out, then the vessels of the young men are holy, and it a common way: and also, surely this day it is sanctified in the vessel.'
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob: and there were gathered vain men to Jephthah, and went out with him.
there abideth then, a sabbatic rest unto the people of God,
And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwell in the tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the camp: for the camp was at its tranquillity.
teaching about baptisms and laying on of hands, and resurrection of the dead and eternal judgment.
And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat immediately, and then take as much as thy soul is the mind of then he would answer him, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now; and if not, I will take it by force.
They crushed and oppressed the children of Israel in that year; for eighteen years they crushed all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. The name of the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's mother's brother.
And when they sounded their trumpets in three places round about the camp, and had broken their pitchers, they held their lamps in their left hands, and with their right hands the trumpets which they blew, and they cried out, The sword of Jehovah and of Gedeon;
For they could not endure that which was commanded, And if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart:
And David said unto him, Whose is thou? and whence thou?' And he said, An Egyptian youth I it, servant to a man, an Amalekites, and my lord forsaketh me, for I have been sick, three days,
And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:)
And Saul also went home to Gibeah: and with him went the band, that God had hip.
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim, that he could not see;
And he answered and said unto him, Why askest thou my name, which is hard for me?
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was very sorry.
Also we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we paid them obeisance. Shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of spirits, and live?
That Jehovah called Samuel: and he said, Here am I.
For God is my witness, how I long after all of you in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.
And Samuel saith to the roast Give the portion which I gave to thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee?'
and he fell away, again to restore unto repentance; when they had crucified again to themselves the Son of God; and uncovered to broad shame.
And he said, My gods which I made ye have taken, and the priest, and ye go; and what to me more? and what this ye say unto me, What aileth thee!'
Before the lamp of God went out, Samuel slept in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was.
And Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David unto the forest, and hardened his hand in God,
And the gold mice according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines, for their five rulers, from the fortified city to the unwalled village of the field as far as the great stone, where they set the ark of Jehovah unto this day in the field of Joshua of and the goings out of
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, "Listen to the voice of the people in all that they tell thee; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me as the king over them.
Then David ran, stood over the Philistine, took his sword drew it out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.
And it came to pass after a time, in the days of the wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid of the goats. And he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. but her father would not suffer him to go in.
And David went on fighting them from evening until the evening of the day after: and not one of them escaped but only four hundred young men that fled on camels.
Then Samuel said unto the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and there make the kingdom strong in the hands of Saul.
And Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that were found with them, abode in Geba of Benjamin: and the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
I also will henceforth drive out from before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died;
Jonathan, Saul's son, arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Do not know his face or how tall he is, because I will not have him: for the Lord's view is not man's; man regardeth the outer waste but Jehovah seeth the heart.
David left stuff he had with him in the charge of the stuff keeper: ran unto the battle line, and came and asked how his brethren were doing.
And the people was come into the wood, and behold, the honey gushed out; but no man put his hand unto his mouth, for the people feared the oath.
Also, before they offered up the fat as a burnt-offering, the servant of the priest came and say to the man that was sacrificing, "Give the priest food for roasting, for he will not take boiled food from you, but only raw."
That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed unto his death;
And Jehovah said unto them, Did not the Egyptians and the Amorites, and the children of Ammon and the Philistines,
And he said, Let me die with the Philistines. And when he had strongly shook the pillars, the house fell upon all the princes, and the rest of the multitude that was there: and he slew many more at his death, than he had slain before in his life.
And she had her seat under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her to be judged.)
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and alighted from the ass, and fell down before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground,
And the princes of the Philistines came unto her, and said, Deceive him, and learn of him wherein his great strength should lie, and how we may be able to overcome him, to bind and oppress him: which if thou shalt do, we will give thee each one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
And he laid his hand upon them from Aroer, which is all the way to Minnith, over-running twenty cities, unto Abel-cheramim, and laid great numbers to the sword. And the children of Ammon were destroyed before the children of Israel.
But thy kingdom shall not be established. Jehovah hath sought him a man according to his own heart; and him hath Jehovah commanded to be prince over his people, because thou hast not observed that which Jehovah commanded.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them; for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good; and are ye still? be not sluggard to go, and to go in to possess the land.
A new and living way which he hath dedicated for us through the veil that is to say, his flesh,
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, and the word of Jehovah was not yet been revealed unto him.
And his companion answered and said, This is nothing save the sword of Gideon son of Joash a man of Israel; God hath given into his hand Midian and all the camp.'
Joash said unto all that stood against him, "Will ye contend for Baal. Or wilt thou save him? He that will contend for him, let him be put to death by morning! If he is a god, let him contend for himself, that a man hath broken down his altar!"
but remaining in the flesh more necessary for your sakes;
And he will appoint of them to be his thousands, and captains of hundreds, and to plow his fields, and to reap his grain, and to make him arms and chariots.
And when the day of battle was come, there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan except Saul and Jonathan his son.
Zebulun is a people that thought scorn death, and Naphtali, upon the high places of the field.
Now Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines which was in Gibea; and when the Philistines had heard of it, Saul sounded the trumpet over all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and they see the assembly of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing, set over them, and the Spirit of God is upon Saul's messengers, and they thus they also.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
And the five men, those that were to go to traverse the land of Laish. answer and say unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and graven image, and molten teacher and now, know what ye do.'
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, to whet every man his ploughshare, and his spade, and his axe, and his rake.
And this I pray: that your love may abound more and more and more in knowledge and all discernment,
And they rose up and went to Ziph, before Saul, and David and his men in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah, at the south of the desert place.
And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
and rise against me do the masters of Gibeah and they go about the house against me by night, me they thought to slay, and my concubine they have humbled; and she died.
Now Jonathan said unto his young servant that had his arms, Come, let us go over to the hosts of these men that have no circumcision, it may be that Jehovah will give us help, for there is no end of his power; Jehovah is able to deliver by a great army or by a small band.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah gave Chushan-rishathaim king of Syria into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushan-rishathaim.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, I pray thee, through thy land, unto my place,
But Saul, balancing the spear in his hand, said, I will give David a blow, pinning him to the wall. And David escaped from him twice.
And Nob, the city of the priests, he put to the sword, all the men and women, children, and those that suck the breast, and oxen, and of the asses, and sheep.
Achish answered David, "I know that ye are good in my sight, as an angel of God. Notwithstanding, the princes of the Philistines have said, 'He shall not go up with us to the battle.'
His return was to Ramah, for his house was there; and he judged Israel there; and he built an altar unto Jehovah there.
All the lords of Shechem and Beth-Millo gathered, and they went and made Abimelech as king, near the oak of the pillar that is in Shechem.
So the servants of Saul informed him, saying, "This is what David said."
Now I would have you not, brethren, that the things which befell me have turned out rather to the progress of the Good News;
And they gave up the Lord, and became the worshippers of Baal and the Astartes.
And Gideon said unto them, I do not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over thee; Jehovah shall rule over you.'
Now Zebah and Zalmunna; were in Karkor and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, those of all the host of the children of the east that were yet alive: for a hundred and twenty thousand of their swordsmen had been put to death.
And the evil spirit from Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his weapon in his hand; and David played with his hand.
Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle from the ascent of destruction.
Then Abimelech went to Thebez, and set the battle in array against Thebez and took it.
Then I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
and the ark of God hath been taken, and the two sons of Eli have died, Hophni and Phinehas.
Then Samuel said, "Is there as much delight for Jehovah in burnt-offerings and sacrifices as there is in your obedience to Jehovah? Behold, To obey is better than sacrifice; to give heed than the fat of rams.
and his concubine, that in Shechem, bare to him, even she a son, and he setteth up his name Abimelech;
The five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites and the Sidonians and the Hivite, living in mount Lebanon, from the mount Baal-hermon unto the entrance of Hamath;
For he was sick, nigh unto death; but God had mercy on him; and not only on him; but me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
Then Abigail arose quickly, and went on her ass, with five of her young women, after the men whom David had sent, and she became David's wife.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah:
Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on the one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, do that which seemeth good unto thee.
for whom Jehovah loveth he will chasten, and He scourgeth every son whom he receiveth;'
So Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send me David thy son that is with the sheep."
It is for your instruction that ye suffer these things; God have corrupted unto you as a father doeth unto his sons; for what son hath not punishment from his father?
And the three hundred men nevertheless continued blew the trumpets: and Jehovah sent the sword into all the camp, and they killed one another,
And by faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, Leaning upon the top of his staff.
Zebah and Zalmunna; said, "Get up thyself, and smite us; for as is the man, so is his power." So Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna; and he took the crescent ornaments that were upon the necks of their camels.
And the children of Israel add to do that which is evil in the sight of Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsake Jehovah, and have not served him.
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see that is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
In those days was there no king in Israel and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought for themselves an inheritance to dwell in; for to that day [their lot] had not fallen to them for inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
And the children of Israel dispersed from thence at that time according to tribe and families; and they went out from thence, every man to their own border.
Why then didn't ye obey Yahweh's voice, but took the spoil, and did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight?"
and they turn and go, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the for removing, before them.
And after this they took counsel Jehovah whether he would come thither. And the Lord said, Behold, he is hidden in the house.
But he made himself as nothing, taking the form of a servant, being made like men;
And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli marked her mouth.
And the people of Beth-el came and sat there until evening before God, and they lifted up their voice and wept bitterly.
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin near by their families: and the family of the Matrites was chosen. Therefore Saul the son of Kish was chosen; but when they looked for him, he could not be found.
I pray thee, forgive the transgression of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a perpetual house, because my lord fighteth the battles of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
And the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; but I ask him whence he was, neither did he tell me his name.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said, Jehovah is with thee, O mighty of men.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do anything in Israel at which the ears of every one heareth it will be burning.
And Caleb said, He that shall take Kiriath-sepher, and lay it waste, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
After this thou shalt come to the Gibeah of God, where there are oversight of the Philistines. As thou enter the city there, ye will meet one went of prophets coming down from the high place, with flute, harp, tabret and zither before them, and they shall be soothsaying.
Then Samson said unto them, This time I will give gifts in full to the Philistines, for I am going to do them great evil.
And as for the asses that thou didst lose three days ago, set not thy heart upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel it? Is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
David therefore sent forth spies, and understood that Saul had surely come.
But he turned back from the figured stones, which were against Gilgal, and he said, "I art a message for you, O king." And he said, "Silence!" So all them that stood in his presence went out,
And Saul cast a spear at him to smite him, whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David.
And he went up from thence to Penuel, and spake unto them found: and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered him.
But unto which of the angels hath he ever said, "Sit down at my right hand, Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet."
But all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to whet every man his inheritance and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock.
Thou liftest the poor out of the dust, and him that is in need out of the lowest place, to give them their place among rulers, and for their inheritance the seat of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's and he hath made them the foundation of the world.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the failing knees;
Is the wheat harvest not to-day? I will call out unto Jehovah so that he still sendeth thunder and rain, that thou mayest know and shall see that thy wickedness is great that thou hast done in the sight of Jehovah, By asking for a king for yourselves."
And after certain days returning to take her, and withdrew apart to see the carcass of the lion, and behold, there was a swarms of bees in the mouth of the lion and a honeycomb.
And the servants of Saul said unto him, Behold, now an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.
Behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the threshing-floor, but and if the dew be on the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the earth beside, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
Did they not found, divided the spoil, A damsel, two damsels, to each? A spoil of dyed cloth, for Sisera, A spoil of dyed cloth, of broidered work, with flowing stuff of double broidered work for the neck of a spoiler?
And the children of Israel returned from striving after the Philistines, and they despoiled their camps.
And he said unto them, Out of the devourer came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days declare this riddle.
Beware of the dogs, beware of the evil workers, beware of the false circumcision.
And Jephthah passed over to the children of Ammon to make war against them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
This day Jehovah will deliver thee into my hands, and I will make thee afraid, and take your head off thee; and I will give the bodies of the Philistine, army to the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the earth this day, that all the earth may know that Israel hath a God;
And the people were perfect all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that were left after the death of Joshua, and had seen all the great work of Jehovah which he had done for Israel.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
not that forsake our own gathering together together, as the custom of some is, save exhorting one another; and so much the more, as ye see the Day approaching.
And whereas indeed he was the Son of God, he learned obedience by the things which he decreed against her.
And they rose up early, and as dawn were breaking; Samuel called to Saul upon the roof; saying, "Get up, that I may send you away." And Saul arose and the two of them, he and Shemuel, went without.
and the princes of the Philistines came up unto her, and say unto her, `Entice him, and see wherein his great power; and wherein we are able for him, and we have bound him to afflict him, and we give unto thee, each one: eleven hundred silverlings.'
And the angel of Jehovah came and sat under the oak that was in Ophrah, that to Joash the Abi-ezrite. And his son Gideon threshed wheat in the winepress, to secure from the Midianites:
And that every tongue may bear witness that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
And the men of Gibeah rose against me, and compassed the house round about upon me by night, and thought to have slain me: and my concubine have they drawn away that she is dead.
Now there was a certain man of Zorah, and of the sons of Dan, whose name was Manue, and his wife was barren.
For Christ did not enter into a sanctuary made by hands, a vain copy of the true one; but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf,
And it came to pass on the fourth day that they arose early in the morning, and he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said unto his son-in-law, refresh thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward ye shall go thy way:
And there came forth a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
Salute every one that is godly in Christ Jesus. And the brethren that are with me salute thee.
Who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself.
And God subdued on that day Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And he went there to Naioth in Ramah: Then God's Spirit came upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah:
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of bitterly: therefore that Israel was sore sorry.
Euodia I exhort and Syntyche I exhort, to be of the same mind in the Lord.
And all the borders thereof from the Arnon unto the Jaboc, and from the wilderness to the Jordan.
David pursued, he and four hundred men; but two hundred men tarried because they were too wearied herself with to pass over the brook Besor.
And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all lusty, and all men of valor; and there escaped not a man.
He will take thy servants and your handmaids and the best of your young men and your beasts, and shalt use them for his projects.
And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant of an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days ago, I fell sick.
Therefore Saul and all the people that were with him, shouted together, and they came to the place of the war: and behold, every man's sword was turned upon his neighbor, and there was a very great slaughter.
So Samuel called out unto Jehovah, and Jehovah brought thunder and rain that same day, so all the people feared Jehovah, and Samuel greatly.
For I have declared unto him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity that he hath known: because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Samson's wife, Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? is it not so?
according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be put to shame, but in all boldness, as always, now Christ also shall be magnified in my body whether by life or by death.
But the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make the man return, that he may go again to his place where thou hast appointed him, that he go not down with us to the battle, that in the battle he be not an adversary against us; for wherewith should this reconcile them himself to thy master's murderer? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and went he and two of the men with him, and they came unto the woman by night, and he said, `Divine, I pray thee, unto me of the familiar spirit, and cause to come up to me him whom I say unto thee.'
the Holy Spirit this evidencing that not yet hath been manifested the way of the holy oblation the first tabernacle having yet a standing:
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for a second.
But Samuel said, "What hast thou done?" Saul said, "Because I saw that the army was scattered from me and ye did not come at the set time and that the Philistines were gathered together to Michmas,
And he said unto them, "Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered thine enemies the Moabites into your hand." They followed him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and didn't suffer any man to pass over.
And began to go into the way of the wilderness, the enemy pursuing them thither also. And they that refined the city came also out to meet them.
Then all the wicked and unrighteous men that had gone with David answered and said, Because they came not with us, we will not give them any thing of the prey which we have recovered: but let each man take his wife, and his children, and be contented with them, and go his way.
Now when he was come to the place of the Jawbone, and the Philistines shouting went to meet him, the spirit of Jehovah came strongly upon him: and as the flax is wont to be consumed at the approach of fire, So the bonds wherewith he was bound were broken and loosed.
And when he saw her he was confounded and said, Oh, my daughter: I am weary with sorrow, And it is Thou that art the chief cause of my calamity; for I have made a vow unto Jehovah, and I may not repent:
And Eli, heard the noise and the voice, said, What mean ye by this outcry? And the man came quickly and told Eli.
Then David thought to himself, "Now I will perish one day by the hand of Saul! There is nothing better for me but that I must surely escape to the land of the Philistines: then Saul will let me alone from seek me further in all the inheritances of Israel, and so will I escape from his hand."
And she said, Oh, my lord, thy soul liveth: my lord, I the woman that stood with thee in this man, to pray unto Jehovah;
For when the people were numbered, not one man of the people of Jabesh-gilead, was present.
And he led them before the king of Moab, and they dwell with him all the days of David's being in the fortress.
Of the teaching of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, "Please bring the ephod here for me." So Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house.
Then said Saul unto the servant that kept the charge of his arms, Take out thy sword and put it through me, before these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his servant, full of fear, would not do Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell on it, destroy himself.
from time to time the daughters of Israel go to commune to the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite, four days in the year.
And Jehovah had mercy on Hannah and she bare three sons and two daughters. And the young Samuel became elder before Jehovah.
Now Saul heard that David and the men that were with him had been located. Saul was sitting at Gibeah under the tamarisk tree at Ramah: Now his spear was in his hand, and all his servants were round about him.
And Kish begat Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.
But Gideon said unto them, I will not be a ruler over you, and my son shall not be prince over thee: it is Jehovah, and I will be prince over you.
Ask thy young men, and they will tell thee. Therefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes: for we come in a good day; give, I pray thee, what is thy hand may find to thy servants, and to thy son David.
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the spoil before them.
May we poverty then, to enter into that rest, that no man in the same ensample of the want of faith may fall,
And Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah hath spoken unto him, and it came to pass, because he hath been afraid of the house of his father, and the men of the city, to do by day, that he shall by night.
The three companies blew the trumpets, brake the cups, and held the torches in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hand, wherewith to bruising me: and they shouted, "The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon!"
And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.
And the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth upon him, and he rent it as the Rending of a kid, and there is nothing in his hand, and he told his father and his mother, that which he hath done.
and after the second veil a tent that is called Holy of holies,'
Then answered all the wicked men and men of fellow, of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife, and his children, that they may lead them away, and depart.
And the Lord said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
Then David and his men, who were about six hundred, arose, and they journeyed from Ceila, wandered up and down uncertain where they should tarry, and it was told Saul that David was fled from Ceila, and had escapeth; say, wherefore he forbore to go out.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man, and the young man is to him as one of his sons.
And he said unto her, If they should bind me fast with new ropes with which no work is done, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
He sent spies secretly, and learned that he was verily come thither.
It was necessary therefore that the copies of the things in the heavens, should be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
So Jehovah left those nations; he did not drive them out at once, and he did not deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon earth, thou shalt not be established nor thy kingdom. Therefore now immediately send and fetch him unto me: for he is the son of death.
And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Carmel and in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and in the cities of the Kenites;
Now Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, (the brother of Ichabod), the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli the priest of Jehovah at Shiloh, was bearing a ephod. The caravans knew not that Jonathan had gone.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And he went from year to year in a circuit unto Beth-el, Gilgal, and Mizpah; and he judged Israel in all those places.
Arid being very thirsty, he cried unto Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this very great victory and victory into the hand of thy servant: and behold, I die for thirst, and shall fall into the hands of the uncircumcised.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Saul was known, years old when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel.
And the Hebrews went over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And Saul was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
Wherefore leaving the word of the beginning of Christ, let us go to things more perfect, not lay it again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
Howbeit we may not give them wives of our daughters, for the children of Israel had sworn, saying, 'Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.'"
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, "We have sinned against Yahweh." Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And the man said unto Eli, "I am he that is come from the battle line! I have fled this day from the battle line!" And he said, "What exactly done, my son?"
And Gideon, the son of Joash died when he was very old, and his body was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
My heart goeth forth to the captains of Israel, those willingly offered themselves among the people; bless ye Jehovah:
court, greaves were on its legs, and a brazen javelin was slung between his shoulders.
For every house hath a builder; but build all things is God.
And [there is] a man in Maon, and his work in Carmel; and the man very great, and he hath three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he is fleece his flock in Carmel.
And David said to Abiathar, I knew it that day, when endureth chiefs was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I am accountable for all the lives of thy father's house.
Jehovah called Samuel: and he said, "Here I am."
that he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There is a razor hath not gone up on my head, for a Nazirite to God I from the womb of my mother; if I have been shaven then hath my power turned aside from me, and I have been weak, and have been as any of the man race.'
And Saul said, They have brought them from Amalek: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the herds that they might be sacrificed unto Jehovah thy God, but the rest we have slain.
Then David sent out ten young men; and David said unto the young men, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name.
And the liers-in-wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah: and the liers-in-wait drew themselves along, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But Sisera, fled on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace between Jabin, king of Hazor, and the family of Heber the Kenite.
nor yet through the blood of goats, and bullocks, but through his own blood, entered in once for all into the holy place, hath obtained eternal redemption.
Not that I speak in respect unto lack, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am, to be content in it.
For ye both sympathized with the prisoners and bear with the seizure of your belongings with joy for thou knewest that ye yourselves had a better and established possession.
And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to withstand this Philistine, nor to fight against him: for thou art but a lad, but he is a mighty man from his youth.
And every one that was in trouble, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was bitter in soul, came together to him, and he became captain over them: about four hundred men were joined to him.
For in one offering he hath perfected for all while they that are made holy.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the Plain.
Then Yahweh's Spirit shall come mightily upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be turned into another man.
At Her feet did obeisance, he fell, he lay down: at her feet did obeisance, he fell: where did obeisance, there he fell down dead.
saying, This blood is the token of the covenant which God hath made with you.
And Saul saw the army of the Plilistines, and was afraid, and his heart was very much dismayed.
always in my every prayer for all of you, making the prayer with joy,
(only for the sake of the generations of the sons of Israel's knowing, to teach them war, only they that aforetime have not known them); even
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Keep not silence for us from crying unto Jehovah our God, and he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.'
And the officers saw a man come forth out of the city, and said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, how shall enter into the city, and we will show thee for ever.
Samuel told all Yahweh's words unto the people that asked him for a king.
And Samuel said: Gather all Israel to Mizpeh, and I will pray for you unto Jehovah.
But Hannah did not go up, for she said unto her husband, [I will wait] until the child is weaned. then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the children of Israel were moved with compassion, and Benjamin their brother, saying, This day one tribe hath been cut off from Israel.
And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, to bring me every man his ox and his ram, and slay them upon this stone, and eat, but ye shall not sin against Jehovah in eating with the blood; So all the people brought every man his ox with him until the night: and slew them there.
Then David inquired of Jehovah yet again. And Jehovah answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
his Son is the light of his glory, the very image of his substance, And upholding all things by the word of his majesty, when he had by himself purified us of our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Honor on high,
And she had men looking secretly in the inner seat; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And the cords were broken by him as a wrest of thread is broken when touched by a flame. So the mystery of his strength came not to light.
I press upon toward the end for the righteous, the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.
And all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, so even they pursued them to speak in the battle.
As he made an end of offering the burnt-offering, Samuel was coming. So Saul went out to meet him, and to bless him.
For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
Jephthah judged Israel six years: then Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in the cities of Gilead.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who came not up unto Jehovah in the assembly of all Israel? For they had taken a great oath that whosoever came not up to Mizpah to Jehovah was to be put to death.
Not that I speak from need, for I have learned to be content in whatsoever degree I am.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel to Ramah,
Now Jonathan said, Far be it from thee; for, if I knew with certainty that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, would I not tell it thee?
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their hosts together for warfare; to fight with Israel. And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.
And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I expressly say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace be unto thee, and no hurt; as Jehovah liveth.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead, heard of what the Philistines had done to Saul,
being able to deal gently with them that are ignorant and deceived, since he himself also is compassed with weakness,
And when they were risen in the morning, and it began now to be light; Samuel called Saul on the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may let thee go. And Saul arose: and they went out both of them, to wit, he and Samuel.
Dost thou not possess what Chemosh thy god putteth thee in possession of yourselves? and whatsoever Jehovah our God hath cast out before us, that will we possess.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the apostle and chief priest of our confession; Christ Jesus,
And they said unto him, "Please inquire of God that we may know whether our journey that we are going on shall be successful."
of the holy places a servant, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah did set up, and not man,
For Zebul the ruler of the city, hearing the words of Gaal, the son of Obed, was very wroth,
And they shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread; which thou shalt receive of their hands.
For all the commandment having been spoken according to law by Moses to all the people: he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, he sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
While she continued to pray before Jehovah, Eli was keep her mouth.
For we don't have brought Jehovah's enduring city, but we seek that which is to come.
Then David came to Ziklag, and sent presents of the prey unto the elders of Judah his neighbors, saying, Receive a blessing of the prey of the enemies of Jehovah.
But Ehud, while they were in confusion; escaped, and passed by the place of the idols, and from whence he had returned. And he came to Seirath:
For, having done that which was right in God's eyes, ye have need of waiting before his word hath effect for you.
And Jair died; and was buried in the place which was called Camon.
And the man said unto Eli, I he that hath come out of the ranks; and I out of the flocks have fled to-day;' And he said, What hath been the matter, my son?'
Let us also therefore, having so great a cloud of witnesses round about us, putting away every weight, and sin which so quickly entangleth us, run with patience the race that lieth before us,
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and smote them, till the morning, till there is not a man of them alive. And they said, Do as it seemeth right unto you. then the priest said, Let us come near unto God.
And he went from year to year in circuit to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpah, and judged Israel in all those places.
Since, would they not indeed have ceased being offered, because of the worshippers once purged having no more any conscience of sins?
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Because this nation hath not been faithful to my covenant which I made with their fathers, and hath not hearkened to my voice;
Ehud, put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body:
Yea, Jehovah giveth also Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and to-morrow thou and thy sons with me; also the camp of Israel will Jehovah give into the hand of the Philistines.'
Now at that time, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Ceila, he came down having an ephod with him.
Here I am; testify against me before Jehovah, and before the man upon whom he hath put the holy oil: whose ox or his ass have I taken? to whom have I been untrue? who hath trodden down by me? from whose hand have I taken a ransom for the blinding of my eyes? I will give it all back unto you.
Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and its towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns thereof; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
By the new and living way which he made open for us through the veil that is to say, his flesh;
But he refused, and said, "I will not eat." But his servants, together with the woman, constrained him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth and sat on the bed.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went in, and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, "Listen unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And David slew them from the evening unto the evening of the next day, and there escaped not a man of them, but four hundred young men, who had gotten upon camels, and fled.
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of their unbelief, in they journeyed from the living God.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed art thou of Jehovah: I have fulfilled the word of Jehovah.
But the fig tree said unto them, 'Should I stop yielding my sweet wine, and my good growth; to go hang over the trees?'
Then they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshingfloors.
And every priest taketh his place at the altar day by day, to do that which is necessary: and making again and again the same offerings which are never able to take away sins.
And it came to pass that, when they had carried it about, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with very great panic; and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and hemorrhoids brake forth upon them.
There was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul; and when Saul saw any mighty man, or any valiant man he took him into his service.
And she wept before him the seven days, while they had the feast. And it came to pass on the seventh day, that he expounded the matter unto her; for she pressed him. And she expounded the dark saying unto the children of her people.
To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem which is, King of peace;
Now there were between the steep places shall fall, whereby Jonathan sought to go over to the garrison of the Philistines, rocks standing up in the one curtain, and steep rocks like teeth on the one side, and on the other side, the name of the one was Boses, and the name of the other was Sene:
And Samson said unto the young man that holdeth fast his hand, Let me alone, that I may feel the pillars on which the house is established, and I lean upon them.'
holding up the word of life; that I may have somewhat to glory in the day of Christ, that I didn't run in vain nor labor in vain.
But Gideon said unto them, "I shall not rule over you, and my son shall not rule over thee; Jehovah will rule over you."
Therefore Saul clothed David with his own fighting attire and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and clothed him with coat of mail:
And it is yet more abundantly evident: since a different priest ariseth according to the likeness of Melchisedec,
And Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, judged Israel at that time.
And put the battle in array against them; and they took all the increase of the earth as far as Gaza, till there was no bread in Israel, or of the sheep, or oxen or asses.
And David went he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the brook Besor, but the rest remained.
But Sihon would not give way and let Israel go through his border: and Sihon gathered all his people, and encamped in Jahaz; and fought against Israel.
How much worse punishment think ye he shall be judged worthy of that hath trodden under foot the Son of God; and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing, and hath reproached the Spirit of grace?
Here people that die receive tithes, but there one receiveth tithes of whom it is testified, that he liveth.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he possessed the hill-country, but they could not drive out the inhabitants of the plain because they had chariots of iron.
And he shall take thy servants, and your maid-servants, and your comeliest young men, and your asses, and use them for his work.
Keep thy places now, while I take up the reason with you before Jehovah, and give you the commentary of the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hath made known by his acts to you and to your fathers.
He smote Nob, the city of the priests, with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and nursing babes, and cattle, and asses and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
And ye shall make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall throw down their altars; but ye have not obeyed my voice, why have ye done this?
God for us something better having prepared; that apart from us they might not be made perfect;
And Saul said unto his uncle, He certainly told us that the asses were found;' and of the matter of the kingdom he told him not that which Samuel said.
Now Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him; and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
I thank my God at every remembrance of you,
And Ehud, put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right side, and sent it into his bowels
And by faith he forsook Egypt, feared not the wrath of the king; for he endured: as seeing him that is invisible.
So David prevailed over the Philistine, with the sling and with the stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him, but there was no sword in David's hand.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And the uncle of Saul said, Tell me, I pray thee, unto me, what Samuel said unto you?'
But now he hath bought a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is mediator of a better covenant, which is established on the footing of better gifts falsely.
And Samuel told him all the words, and kept back anything from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do that which is good in his sight.
In those days the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name of it Luz (the same is the name thereof unto this day.
And after him Ibzan of Beth-lehem judgeth Israel,
Then said Saul unto David, Let a blessing be upon thee, David my son; thou wilt do great things and without doubt thou shalt conquer. Then David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
and she put her hand to the tent-pin, And her right hand to the workmen's hammer; And she smote Sisera, she smote through his head, Shattered and thrust through his temples
And the me, went up to Saul in Gibeah, and saying, Behold, doth not David lie hid with us in the strongholds of the wood, in mount Hachila, which is on the right hand of the wilderness.
be ye not your hearts in Meribah, in the day of Massah in the wilderness;
Then Manoah took the male and the meal-offering, and offered it up to Jehovah upon the rock: and he did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife looked on.
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye are taking me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah will deliver them up before me, even I, am I unto you for a head?'
And no one taketh the glory to himself but called by God, even as Aaron also.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David, also working thou shalt work, and also prevailing thou shalt prevail.' And David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
And the Levites took down Yahweh's ark, and the coffer that was with it, in which the jewels of gold were, and put them upon the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
But we are not the children of taking up unto perdition; but of faith unto the saving of the soul.
The same night Jehovah said unto him, Arise, and go down into the camp: because I have delivered them into thy hand.
and the roll began to go up from the city a pillar of smoke and Benjamin turneth behind them; and behold, gone up hath the perfection of the city toward the heavens.
After a while he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and, behold, there was a swarms of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
And the ark of Jehovah is in the field of the Philistines seven months,
Therefore Saul fell straightway his full length on the earth, and was terrified, because of Samuel's words. And there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day or all the night.
Now therefore now, behold, I know that thou wilt surely be king and the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of the things which were to be said,
And Jehovah did for himself as he hath spoken by my hand, and Jehovah rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and gave it unto thy neighbor to David.
But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Gaddiel the son of Laish. who was of Gallim.
And the words which David spake were heard: and were rehearsed before Saul.
And ye shall not cut off thy lovingkindness from my family for ever, not even when Jehovah exterminates each of the enemies of David from the face of the earth."
Then at the dawning of day the woman came, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her master was, was stretched there until it was light.
Not because I desire a bribe; but I desire fruit that may abound unto thy sake,
And both of them uncovered themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines; and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the clefts where they had hid themselves.
And he said unto us, Ye have taken away my gods which I have made me and the priest, and all that I have, and do ye say, What aileth thee?
Then Micaiah said, Behold now, I know that Jehovah will do me good, saw that the Levite is become my priest.
Then answered one of the people, and said, Thy father strictly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food this day. And the people were faint.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give Midian into their hand, lest Israel vaunteth themselves against me, saying, mine own foundation thereof.
even to choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to me for a priest, to go up unto mine altar, to make a incense, to bear an ephod before me, and I give to the house of thy father all the offerings of the sons of Israel?
And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
And he returned to Ramatha, for there was his house, and there he judged Israel: he built there an altar unto Jehovah.
But, beloved, though we say this, we know that thou hast better things in you, things which go with salvation;
"Now therefore stand still, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas! my daughter, thou hast made me greatly to bend, and thou shalt be among them that afflict me; and I have opened my mouth, unto Jehovah, and I am not able to turn back.'
These men were very good unto us, and gave us no trouble: neither did we ever lose anything all the time that we communed with them in the wilderness.
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and rehearsed them in the ears of Jehovah.
Then Ehud, went forth through the porch, and shut up the doors of the parlour upon him, and shut them.
And an angel of the Lord came, and sat under the oak that was in Ephra, and belonged to Joash the father of the family of Ezri. And when Gedeon his son was threshing and cleansing wheat by the winepress, to flee from Midian,
But the princes of the Philistines were incensed against him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, "Make the man return, that he may go back to his place where thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, that in the battle he become an adversary against us. For with what should this fellow reconcile them himself to his lord? Should it not be with the heads of these men?
They arose, and went to Ziph, before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah on the south of the wilderness.
and to God, even our Father, the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And it came to pass, when the time was come to pass after Hannah had conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, [saying,] Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
That at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;
and to Jesus, mediator of a new covenant; and to blood of sprinkling, speaking better than Abel.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnathheres, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill Gaash.
But reminded of the former days, in which after ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions;
And indeed they that are of the sons of Levi, that receive the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is to say, of their brethren: though they themselves also came out of the loins of Abraham.
And he stood he cried out unto the bands of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out prepared to fight? am not I a Philistine, and ye the servants of Saul? And choose out a man of you, and let him come down and fight hand to hand.
Wherefore, also Jesus came that he might sanctify through own blood the people, without the gate did suffer:
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and she said, He is sick.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Therefore we have returned to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be head over all of us the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work and labor of love which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered unto the saints, and do attendant.
And Samson saith unto them, Let me, I pray you, put forth unto you a riddle; if ye surely declare it unto me the seven days of the feast, and have found out, then I have given you thirty linen shirts, and thirty changes of raiment.
And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all they signs came to pass that day.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah, the same was the first altar that he built unto Jehovah.
And they went forth into the field, and gathered their vineyards, and trod [the grapes], and made rejoicings, and went into the house of their gods, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech;
He was judge over Israel for twenty and three years; and at his death his body was laid in the earth in Shamir.
And to march from the west side of the city. And other ten thousand men chosen out of all Israel smote the inhabitants of the city. And the battle was hot against the children of Benjamin: and they understood not that present death threatened them on every side.
And every priest standeth daily minister, and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
They answered them, and said, "He is. Behold, he is before thee; Make haste now, for he hath come this day into the city; for the people have a sacrifice this day in the high place.
And David came to Ziklag, and he sent of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah:
In that day will I perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his house, when I begin to I will also make an end.
Is not this David, of whom they answer in choruses, saying, Saul had smitten among his thousands, and David among his myriads?'
So Saul died, and his three sons and his servant both in one day.
And by faith he came forth out of Egypt, feared not the anger of the king; for he continued as if he saw the invisible one.
And when Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and sore afraid.
When Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah answered him, "Here is the man of whom I told you. This is he that will govern my people."
And when the king sat down upon his seat Even to custom) which was by the wall, Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place appeared empty.
And Samuel said unto the people, [It is] Jehovah that appointed Moses and Aaron, and who brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the servants of Saul told him the words of what David had said.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech;
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite: for I have prepared me a king in his sons.
Harden not your hearts in the provocation; in the day of Massah in the wilderness,
But I am pressed by both, having the desire for departure and being with Christ, [it is] very much better,
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If with all your heart ye turn to Jehovah, turn aside the foreign gods from the midst of thee, and Ashtaroth; and prepare for your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.'
In that day will I do unto Eli everything which I have spoken concerning his family, from first to last.
Therefore strengthen thy weakened hands and your weakened knees,
And it came to pass, when she came unto him, that she moved him to ask of her father the field: and she alighted from off the ass, and Caleb said unto her, What aileth thee?'
But six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.
Then Delilah said unto Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, in what is thy great strength, and with what thou mightest be bound to prevail against thee.
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and many were overthrown and slain, even unto the entrance of the gate.
And he said unto his mother, "The eleven hundred pieces of silver, that were taken away from you, whereof ye uttered a curse, and also spake it in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me. I took it." His mother said, "May Jehovah bless my son!"
Now Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no flesh the second day of the new moon, for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
Then Jonathan said, "Behold, we will pass over to the men, and we will reveal ourselves unto them.
But if ye have not that punishment of which we all have our part, then ye are not true sons, but children of shame.
Now the Lord had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying,
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah, (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
And David let down the spoil of off him on the hand of a keeper of the goods, and runneth into the degree, and cometh and asketh of his brethren of welfare.
And the heads of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen; that drew sword.
The children of Benjamin drove not out the Jebusites, that dwell in Jerusalem, but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
The hand of the children of Israel prevailed more and more against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year.
Now David had said, truly in vain have I kept all that this had in the wilderness, so that nothing was want of all that was his; and he hath recompensed me evil for good.
So the boil took up the shank and what was upon it, and put it before Saul, and he said, "Look, the saved portion is set before youeat, for it hath been kept for you for the appointed time," and he said, "I have bidden the people." So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, "So shall it be done unto the man that killeth him."
And the young Samuel, being elder, had favor with the Lord and of men.
And the inhabitants of Gibeah came together against me, going about the house on every side of by night; it was their purpose to put me to death, and my servant-wife was violently used by them and is dead.
And surely they that are of the sons of Levi, that receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham:
But Christ, being come a high priest of the good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hand, that is, not of this creation:
When the Ashdodites, rose up early the next morning, there was Dagon fallen with his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah. So they took Dagon and returned him unto his place.
And they put Yahweh's ark on the cart, and the coffer with the golden mice and the images of their tumors.
And David said to Abiathar, I know on that day, when endureth chiefs there, that he will surely tell Saul; I have brought round to all the souls of the house of thy father;
So his servants told David these words, and the thing pleased David to become the son-in-law of the king as the specified time had not gave up the ghost.
And on the fourth day they rose early in the morning, and he prepared to go, but the father of the damsel, said unto his son-in-law, "Refresh thyself with a piece of victuals, and afterward ye may go."
Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews: as touching the law, a Pharisee.
But a young man of the servants told Abigal Nabal's wife, saying, "Look, David sent messengers from the wilderness to salute our master, but he spake unto them to press upon
And Saul took him that day, and would not return unto his father's house.
and I deliver you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all your oppressors, and I cast them out from before you, and I will give you their land,
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, drawn away from the city; and as at the first, at their first charge, they put to death about thirty men of Israel upon the highways, whereof one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, and in the open field.
And the people refused to hearken to the voice of Samuel: and they said, No, but there shall be a king over us,
And the masters of Shechem set for him liers-in-wait on the top of the hills, and rob every one that passeth over by them in the way, and it was told Abimelech;
And by faith he sojourned as a sojourner in the land of promise as a foreign country, having dwelt in tents with Isaac, and Jacob, the heirs with of the same promise),
for *our* commonwealth hath its created in heavens, from which also we wait for the Lord Jesus Christ Saviour,
And the Philistine, said unto David, Stand, I pray thee, unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field.
The house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el. That the name of the city before that was Luz.)
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Give ear to their voice, and make a king for them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let return every man unto his own city.
And he said unto David, "You are more righteous than I; for thou hast done good unto me, whereas I have done evil unto you.
for he waited for the city which hath foundations, of which God is artificer and constructor.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing.
But the man wouldn't stay that night, but he rose up and departed, and toward Jebus (the same is Jerusalem). and with him a couple of saddled asses. his concubine also was with him.
They chose strange gods: then was war in the gates: was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnath: and, behold, a young lion roared upon him.
Then Samuel gave the people the laws of the kingdom, writing them in a book which he put in a sure place before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
and right ways make for your feet, that that which is lame may not be turned aside, but rather be healed;
And Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because Jehovah hath sworn to make thee his people.
Now Jonathan caused David to swear again, by the love he had for him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
Thy lifestyle must be free from the love of money, being content with your ability. For he himself hath said, "I shall never wilderness you, and I will never forsake you."
And the men of Israel said unto Gideon, `Rule over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son; for thou hast saved us from the hand of Midian.'
Now Jonathan said unto the young man bearing his armor, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised; peradventure Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint unto Jehovah to save by many or by few.'
Now the children of Israel went up, weeping before Jehovah until even, besought Jehovah and saying, Shall I go forward again to the fight against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the Lord said, Go up against him.
The Holy Spirit was making this, that the way into the holy place was not yet revealed, while the first tent was yet in divinity;
and again, when he bringeth in the first-born into the world; he saith, And let all God's angels worship him.
Awake, awake, Deborah! awake, awake, utter a song: Arise, Barak, and take captive thy captives, thou son of Abinoam!
And she said unto him, My father thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do to me as it is gone forth from thy mouth, after that Jehovah hath done for thee vengeance upon thine enemies, on the Bene-Ammon.'
And take the ark of Jehovah, and put it on the cart. and put the jewels of gold, which ye return him for a trespass-offering, in a coffer by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go.
But our behavior is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Saviour, our Lord Jesus Christ,
Then he called hastily to the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, "Draw your sword, and kill me, that men not say of me, 'A woman killed him.' his young man he fell down there, and died."
Abimelech therefore arose with all his army by night, and laid liers-in-wait near Shechem in the four places.
Then David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go after this band? will I be able to overtake them? And he answered and said, Go after them, for thou shalt surely overtake them, and shall redeem all things.
And there was a great war against the Philistines all the days of Saul. For whomsoever Saul saw is a mighty man, and apt for war, he took him to himself.
And he sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, to say in his name, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me, to waste my land?
(Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had mourned for him, and they had buried him in Ramah, his own city. And Saul had cast out the them that had familiar spirits, and unto the wizards, from the land.)
For thy fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now:
And he said, "I come in peace. I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah. Sanctify yourselves and come with me into the sacrifice." So he sanctified Jesse and his sons and he bade them to the sacrifice.
And the men that were with David, said unto him, Behold, we are in fear here in Judaea, how much more if we go to Keilah, against the hands of the Philistines?
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon. And the people were very faint;
And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it whole for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah hearkened unto him.
Then said Saul unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect am! Now Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phurah thy servant down to the host:
Now therefore, my lord, by reason of the living God and by thy living soul, seeing Jehovah hath kept thee away the innocent blood from blood, and from taking into your hands the punishment for your evil; may all your enemies, and them that would do evil unto my lord, be like Nabal.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side:
and Gaal son of Ebed went forth, and stood at the door of the gate of the city, and Abimelech rose up, and also the people that were with him, from the ambush,
Now the lad Samuel ministered unto Jehovah in the presence of Eli. The word of Jehovah was rare in those days: visions were not widespread.
The wagon came to the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh and stopped there where was a great stone. They clave the wood of the wagon and sacrificed the kine as a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
"I regret that I made Saul king, for he hath turned back from following me, and hath not kept my word." Samuel was very wroth, and cried unto Jehovah all night.
The man Micah had a house of gods, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
And my prayer is that ye may be increased more and more in knowledge and approvedness;
Therefore I have also given him unto Jehovah. And as long as he liveth he is given to Yahweh." He worshipped Jehovah there.
And when he was brought to him, he said unto him, Let not any man's heart be dismayed in him: I thy servant shall go, and will fight against the Philistine.
even he to whom it was said, "your seed shall be accounted as from Isaac";
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? Far be it! As Jehovah liveth, there shall not a hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Do not return in him, take him in his bed, so that I may put him to death.
And David arose and went away, both he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achis the son of Maoch, king of Gath;
But the children of Benjamin drove not out the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem, so the Jebusites have dwelt among the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
But Yahweh's angel didn't appear unto Manoah or to his wife any more: and Manoah knew that he was Yahweh's angel.
And Samuel said, What then is this sound of the crying of sheep and the noise of oxen which cometh to my ears?
And in that he saith, Yet once more, he signifieth the translation of the moveable things as made, that those things abide which are immoveable.
While they were obtained themselves, behold, the men of the city, the perverse lot, compassed the house, pounding on the door; and they said unto the old man, the lord of the house, "Bring out the man that came to thy house, so that we may know him."
Look not every man upon his own, but every man also the things of others.
He sent therefore and brought him Now he was ruddy and beautiful to behold, and of a comely face. And Jehovah said, Arise, and anoint him, for this is he.
Elon the Zebulunites died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And he went down, and talked with the woman, and she pleased Samson well.
All things do without murmurings and reasonings,
And the tabernacle also and all the vessels of ministering, likewise he sprinkled with blood.
Now Jonathan cried out after the lad, Be swift, do not keep waiting about, go quickly. And Jonathan's lad rose the arrow and came back to his master.
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, but that he will show it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
Strengthen yourselves, and become men, O Philistines, lest ye serve Hebrews, as they have done unto you, then ye shall become men, and have fought.'
and Ahijah, son of Ahitub, brother of I-Chabod, son of Phinehas the son of Eli priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, bearing an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan went.
And they went in unto their brethren, at Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren say unto them, What hast thou ye?'
And Samuel said, When thou wast a little in thine own eyes, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel.
At the end of two months, she returned unto her father, that did with her according to his vow which he had vowed. she was that is unmarried and it was a custom in Israel
To the captain of the guard assembly and church of the first-born, which are written in heaven, and unto God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous men perfected;
Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was at Geba, and the Philistines heard of it; and Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, "Let the Hebrews hear!"
and give it unto him a piece of a bunch of dried figs, and two clusters of raisins, and he did eat and his spirit returneth unto him; for he hath not eaten bread nor drink water three days and three nights.
The riders of white she-asses, that sit on saddle blankets, and they went on the way, talk of it.
And David took to heart these words, and was sore afraid of Achish the king of Gath;
And while they were bearing it about, the band of Jehovah came upon every city with an exceeding great slaughter: and he smote the men of every city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret parts. And the Gethrites took counsel together, and made themselves seats of above.
And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. But Saul was yet at Gilgal, and all the host followed him trembling.
Wherefore do ye trample upon my sacrifice and upon mine meal-offering, which I have commanded [in my] habitation And thou shalt glorify thy sons more than me to make yourselves fat with the primest of all the oblations of Israel my people.
And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.
Therefore, holy brethren, communion with a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession;
So Delilah took new ropes and bound him therewith, and said unto him, "The Philistines are upon thee, Samson!" The ambushment was standing in the inner chamber. He brake them off his arms like a web.
who was faithful unto him that appointed him, as Moses also was in his house.
But this man, who was not of their family, took the tenth from Abraham, and gave a blessing unto him to whom God had given his undertaking.
But Samson's wife was given to the friend that had been his best man.
But all Israel and Judah, loved David, because he went out, and came in before them.
And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites:
But the man I cut not off of thine from mine altar, to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy soul; and all the increase of thy house do die men;
And they returned, and came to Ziph, before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the dry land south of the wilderness.
So Saul said, "Tell me what thou hast done." So Jonathan told him and said, "I merely tasted a little honey with the end of the rod which was in my hand. Here I am, I must die."
and said unto him, Fear not: for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee, and thou dost reign over Israel, and I am to thee for second, and also so knoweth Saul my father.'
and she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh Naphtali, and said unto him, "Hasn't Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded, 'Go and lead the way to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And David had word in the wilderness that Nabal was sheep-shearers; let the king, sheep.
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh cords which had not been dried up, and she bound him with them.
And ye have quite forgotten the exhortation that speaketh unto you as unto sons: My son, despise not chastening of Jehovah, nor faint reproved by him;
As Samuel turned about to go away, Saul laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it tore.
Then Samson said unto the servant that was holding him by his hand, "Position me that I may touch the pillars on which the house resteth so I can lean upon them."
And he said unto her, "Please, give me a drink of water, for I am thirsty." So she opened a skin vessel of milk and gave him a drink and covered him.
And Gideon came, and behold, a man was telling a dream to his fellow; yea, and he said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, behold, a cake of barley-bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and smote it that it fell: and overthrew it; and the tent lay along.
Therefore leaving the rudiments of the teaching of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; But not lay it again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,
Now between the passeth by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistines' garrison there was a sharp rock on the one side and a sharp rock on the other side; and the name of the one Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
And Samuel said, How can for me to go? If Saul getteth tidings of it he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a young cow, with you and say, I am come to make an offering unto Jehovah.
And this I pray, that your love may more and more abound in knowledge, and in all understanding:
Now Nahash the Ammonite went up and encamped against Jabesh Gilead. All the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, "Make a league with us, and we will serve you."
and the three detachments blow with trumpets, and break the cups, and keep hold with their left hand upon the lamps, and with their right hand upon the trumpets to blow, and they cry, The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon.'
(For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
Let not, I pray thee, my lord set his heart to this worthless person, on Nabal, for as his name so he; Nabal his name, and folly with him; and I, thy handmaid, saw not the young men of my lord whom thou didst send;
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee: fear not; thou shalt not die.
And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all these words in the name of David, and ceased.
wherefore then are ye looking with envy on my offerings of food and of meal, that were according to my word, and confess thy sons before me, and making yourselves fat with all the best of the offerings of Israel, my people?
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, delivered them into the hand of plunderers: who took them and sold them to their enemies, that dwelt round about: neither could they stand against their enemies;
If they said thus unto us, Tarry until we come unto you, and we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
Now indeed even the first covenant had ordinances of divine service, and an earthly sanctuary.
And Achish believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And Samuel said, How do I go? when Saul hath heard; then he hath slain me.' And Jehovah said, A heifer of the herd thou shalt take in thy hand, and hast said, To sacrifice to Jehovah I have come;
And the Philistines fight against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from the face of the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Moreover my father, see, yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew thee not, know thou and see that there can be no evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; thou huntest my soul to take it.
I have strength for all things in him that giveth me power.
for he spake in a certain place concerning the seventh thus, And God did rest in the seventh day from all his works;'
Now, go, and thou hast smitten Amalek, and utterly destroyed all that it hath, and thou hast no pity upon it, and hast put to death whether man or woman, From infant unto suckling, out of ox unto sheep, from camel unto ass.'
And she said, Oh, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, praying unto Jehovah.
And I pursued after them, and smote them, and delivered it out of their mouth: and they rose up against me, and I caught them by the throat, and I strangled and killed them.
And again, when he bringeth the first-born into the world, he saith, "And let all the angels of God worship him."
Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
and Saul and Jonathan his son, and the people that are found with them, are abiding in Gibeah of Benjamin, and the Philistines have encamped in Michmash.
And the three elder of the sons of Jesse had gone and followed Saul unto the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and the second to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses therewith; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy servant and for the young man that is with thy servants. There is no lack of anything."
For he looked for the city which hath the foundations, whose build and maker is God.
And he tarried seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed; but Samuel came not to Gilgal: and the people were scattered from him.
And David was full of fear, in the knowledge that Saul had come out to take his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in Horesh.
Only to that which we have one to redeem it, to the same hold on.
Do not multiply to speak lofty things, boasting: let old matters depart from thy mouth: for Jehovah is a God of all knowledge, and to him are thoughts prepared.
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson. And the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
And Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim, and the men of Gilead smite Ephraim, because they said, `Fugitives of Ephraim ye Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim, in the midst of Manasseh.'
In the days of Shamgar son of Anath are in the days of Jael The ways have ceased, And they that enter in the paths go crooked ways.
And Saul's servants spake those words in the ears of David. And David said, Is it a light thing in your eyes to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, And lightly to be accounted of?
And David said unto him, Whose man are ye? and from whence comest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master went on without me because three days back I was very sick.
Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see my circumstances.
in those days there is no king in Israel, every that which is right in his own eyes doeth:
And Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.
And the elders of the assembly said, "What should we do for the rest of the men for wives, since the women of Benjamin have been destroyed?"
And the second day Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, cut down eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, all swordsmen.
And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, And thy years shall not fail.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain: and David and his men were on the other side of the mountain: and David despaired of may be able to escape from the face of Saul; and Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.
I know how both to make do with little and I know how to have abundance: In everything and in all things have I learned the secret both to be filled and to be hungry, both to have plenty and to go without.
Ye are all here, O children of Israel, his case what ye ought to do.
And he showed them the entrance of the city, and they smote the city with the edge of the sword, and the man and all his family they have sent away;
And it came to pass, as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing. to meet king Saul, with tabrets, with joy, and with instruments of music.
But they hearkened not unto their princes, but lusted after other gods, and worshipped them: They turned away quickly out of the way which their fathers went, who had obeyed the commandment of Jehovah; they did not as their fathers.
But Saul, turned back, and went after the Philistines no longer: and the Philistines returned to their place.
And he took two oxen and, cut them up, sent them throughout all the land of Israel by the hand of guard, saying, If any man doth not come out after Saul and Shemuel, this shall be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah came upon the people and they came out like one man.
And he went from thence to the inhabitants of Debir (and the name of Debir beforetime Kirjath-Sepher),
So Joshua sent the people, and the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance to possess the land.
Now when Eliab his elder brother heard this, when he was speaking with others, he was wroth with David, and said, Why earnest thou hither? and why didst thou leave them few sheep in the wilderness? for I know thy pride, and the wickedness of thy heart, that thou art come down to see the battle.
Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for you."
And David came to Saul, and stood before him, and he loveth him greatly; and he is a bearer of his axes
And Gideon said unto them, I should desire a request of you, that ye would give me every man the ear-rings of his prey. For they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
Now after the death of Joshua the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who is to go up first to make war for us against the Canaanites?
Now where remission of these is, there is no more oblation for sin.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, that in the battle he be an adversary against us; for wherewith should he reconcile them himself unto thy master's murderer? should it not be with the heads of these men?
And he took off his raiment, and playedst the prophet before Samuel, and falling down he was stretched out, without his raiment, all that day, and all the night; This is the reason for the saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
circumcision on the eighth day! of the house of Israel: of the tribe of Benjamin is a Hebrew of Hebrews! according to law a Pharisee,
On the morrow after the new moon, the second day, David's place was empty. said Saul unto Jonathan his son, "Why doesn't the son of Jesse come to eat, either yesterday, or today?"
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city trembled at his presence; and said, Comest thou peaceably?
So they came to their brethren in Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What tidings have ye?
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness, to the rock of Rimmon, but they cut down upon the house, to ways five thousand men; and they pursued after them up to Gidom, and they slew the two thousand men.
And Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunken. (now Eli the priest sat on the throne by the door-posts of the temple of Jehovah;)
Therefore Saul sent messengers to take David; and they saw a company of prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as was ruler over them; and the Spirit of God came upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.
But at the time Saul's daughter Merab was to be given to David, she was given instead to Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
If he had been on earth he would not have been a priest at all, because there are other priests that make the offerings commanded by the law;
But he said unto me, Thou art with child and shall bring forth a son; and now do not take any wine nor strong drink, or let any unclean thing eat. for the child shall be separate unto God from his forth the day of his death.
Didn't I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to go up to my altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? Didn't I give to the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire?
And all the elders of the people, and all the tribes of Israel met together in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen; fit for war.
Then said they, What shall be the trespass-offering which we shall return to him? They answered, Five golden emerods, and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon thy Lords.
He cried unto them: and the Danites that could set turned, and said unto Micah, What is thy trouble, that thou hast taken up arms?
They compassed Benjamin: they pursued them without rest and trod them down over against Gibeah to the east.
And ye also know, O Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communication with me as concerning giving and their turn, but ye only:
And it came to pass, when the Philistine, arose, and came and well stricken to meet David, that David hasted, and ran toward the flocks to meet the Philistine.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech;
And David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
So Jephthah fled from the presence of his brethren, and he dwelt in the land of Tob. And outcasts gathered round about Jephthah and went with him.
Have this in your mind, which was also in Christ Jesus,
And he said unto them, "From the devourer came out food, From the strong came out sweet." But they were not able to declare the dark saying for three days.
And Deborah said unto Barak, Up; for this is the day in which Jehovah hath given Sisera, into thy hand: Is not Jehovah gone out before thee? And Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
and Jonathan addeth to cause David to swear, because he loveth him, for with the love of his own soul he loveth him.
So that ye may not be slow in heart, but may take as your ensample they to whom God hath given their heritage, because of their faith and their long waiting.
And so they went on the journey end. But Michas saw that they were stronger than he, returned to his house.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went every man to his place.
And he shall give back the money to his mother, and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to a goldsmith, and he made them a graven image, and a molten image, and it is in the house of Micah.
because that for the sake of the work he drew near even to death, venturing his life that he might fill up that which lacked in your ministration toward me.
And the men of Israel, turn again against the children of Benjamin, put to the sword without mercy all the cities and the cattle and everything there was, burning every city which came into their hands.
and the woman went in at the turning of the morning, and falleth at the door of the man's house, where her lord it, until the light.
And now know and consider what thou wilt do it: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household: and he is such a son of fellow, that one cannot speak unto him.
The satiated for bread hired themselves, And the hungry have ceased. While the barren hath borne seven, And she abounding with sons languisheth.
And David came to the two hundred men that had been too wearied herself with to follow David, and whom they had left behind at the brook Besor; and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him; and David drew nigh unto the people and saluted them.
The law raiseth high priests of men that are feeble: but the word of the oath which was made after the law, giveth that estate unto a Son, in whom all good is for ever made full.
And if they remember that land whence they went out, they would have had opportunity to return.
But Hannah answered and said, "No, my lord. I am a woman deeply sorry, but I have not drunk wine nor strong drink. but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant fed his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and also a bear, and took a lamb of the flock.
For he that is entered into his rest, the same also hath had rest from his works, that God had done from his.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpeh and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto hath Jehovah helped us.
And when they went into Micah's house and took out the graven image and the ephod, and the family gods, and the molten image, the priest said unto them, What doest thou?
and Jesse causeth Shammah to pass by, and he said, Yea, on this Jehovah hath not fixed.'
So Jonathan arose from the table, burning with wrath, and took no portion in the feast the second day of the month, being distressed for David because his father had profaned him.
Only, as far as we have bought, let us walk in the same rule.
So David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and fight against these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go and fight against the Philistines so that Keilah may be delivered out of their hands.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, "Yahweh shall be a witness between us; we shall do according to your word."
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and its towns, nor Taanach and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its villages; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
So may destruction come upon all them that hate thee, O Jehovah; but let thy lovers be as the sun to go forth in his strength. And forty years the land had peace.
Now Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, And thou wilt be swerved for thy throne shall be empty:
And Barac pursued after the swift chariots and the army unto Haroseth of the Gentiles, and all the multitude of the enemies was utterly destroyed.
Then Yahweh's word came to Samuel, saying,
I have not sinned against thee; but thou art the one that doeth wrong by making war against me: Let Jehovah judge this day between the children of Israel and the Ammonites."
Now therefore know and consider what ye shall do: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his house; for he is such a worthless fellow that one can't speak unto him."
For the first tent was made ready, having in it the lamps, and the table and the fulness of the bread; and this is called the holy place.
And Jehovah was with Judah, and he possessed the hill country; but was not able to destroy the inhabitants of the valley, because they had many chariots armed with scythes.
And there went from thence of the family of the Danites that could set out of Zoreah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men girded with weapons of war.
And after she had weaned him, she carried him with her, with three calves, and three measures of meal, and a bottle of wine, and she brought him unto the house of Jehovah in Shiloh. Now the child was as yet very young:
Then the trees said unto the fig tree, Thou come and be king over us.
Then Heli said unto her, Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition, which thou hast asked of him.
Now when the Philistine, made a move and drew near to David, David quickly went at a run by the way of the host, meeting the Philistine, face to face.
There is none holy as Jehovah is: for there is no other besides thee, and there is none strong like our God.
The men of Israel and of Judah arose and shouted, and pursued after the Philistines as far as Gai and to the gates of Ekron. The wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even to Gath and to Ekron.
And I will send my lad to have a look for the arrow. And if I say unto him, Behold, the arrow is on this side of you; take it up, then thou mayest come; for there is peace with thee, and no evil; by the living Lord.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fought against the Philistines.
Only conduct yourselves worthily of the gospel of Christ, that whether coming and seeing you, or absent, to hear of that which concerneth you, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one soul, helping together in the same fight with the faith of the gospel:
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel. And he went out to war, and Jehovah gave Cushan-Rishathaim king of Syria into his hand, and he prevailed over Cushan-Rishathaim.
and to them in Aroer, and to them that are in Siphmoth, and to them that are in Eshtemoa
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, "Give us seven days, that we may make proclamation throughout all the borders of Israel; and then, if there is none to save us, we will come out to you."
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manue: from all the things have I spoken of to thy wife, let her refrain follow;
And Saul hearkened to the voice of Jonathan and sware, "As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be put to death!"
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' because they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest.
So that from one man, who was nigh unto death, came children in number as the stars in heaven, or as the sand by the sea-shore, which cannot be numbered.
to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being fashioned according to his death,
And when Gedeon was come, one told his neighbor a dream; and in this manner declared what he had seen: I dreamed a dream, and it seemed unto me as if a pan cake of barley bread rolled and came down into the camp of Midian: and when it was come to a tent it smote it, and beat it down flat to the ground.
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they said, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as he hath done to us.
In the days of Shamgar the son of Beth-anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were it empty, and the caravans walked through byways.
that ye are all conspired against me, and there is none that discloses to me when my son make a covenant with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or discloses unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me to lie in wait, as it is today?"
He changed his behavior before them, and feigned himself insane in their hands, and scribbled on the doors of the gate, and let his issue spit fall down upon his beard.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as locusts for multitude; both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And when they reported to Sisera, that Barak son of Abinoam were gone up unto mount Tabor,
and ye shall not turn aside after the vain things which shall not profit nor save; for they vain,
Thou wilt roll them up like a robe, and they shall thereof; but ye are the same, And thy years shall not fail."
This day have I begun to ask for him at God? far be it from me! let not the king lay anything against his servant, against any of the house of my father, for thy servant knoweth nothing of all this, less or more.'
And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them [when they were] by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
Who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity.
And he ran to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I did not call: lie down again. And he went and lay down.
And he brought him to his house, and mixeth for the asses, and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And they arose early; and when it was about the dawning of the day, Samuel called to Saul upon the roof; saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Shemuel, into the street.
And he divided the three hundred men into three parts, and gave them trumpets in their hands, and empty pitchers, and lamps within the flagons.
And Joshua the son of Nun, servant of Jehovah died at the lovingkindness of a hundred and ten years.
And he found a fresh jaw through of an ass, put forth his hand, and took it, and smote a thousand men with it.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, "You son of a perverse rebellious woman, don't I know that ye have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
Then Samuel said unto him, "Yahweh hath torn the kingdom of Israel from thee this day and hath given it to thy neighbor that is better than you.
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and he went to meet the Philistines. Therefore they called that place the Rock of Division.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise always to God, that is to say, the fruit of lips confessing to his name.
And Samson's wife was given to his companion who was his best man.
The people, the princes of Gilead, said one to another, "Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And when I shall come thither, we will lodge there, or at least in the city of Rama.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the sickle; so that he could not draw the dagger out of his belly; and the mire came out.
He will take the tenth part of thy seed, and of your vineyards, and give it unto his officers, and to his servants.
Now therefore rise up by night, thou and the people that are with thee, and in ambush in the field.
And by faith Sarah herself had power to give birth, when she was very old, because she had faith in him that gave his word;
Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, 'Every man bring me here his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat; and don't sin against Jehovah in eating flesh with the blood.'" And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
And by faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go forth into the place which he was to receive for an inheritance, and went out, not knowing where he was going.
For this lad I prayed; and Jehovah hath granted me my petition, which I asked of him.
And it came to pass, as soon as Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made Baalberith their god.
So they told it to Saul, saying, "Look! The people are sinning against Jehovah by eating the beasts with the blood!" And he said, "You have dealt treacherously! Roll to me a great stone today!"
Then David ran and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword and drew it from its sheath and slew him and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled.
And Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom; and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he discomfited it.
And when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, they lifted up their voice, and wept.
The man of yours, whom I don't cut off from mine altar, shall devour thine eyes And grieve thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went on slaying one another.
And thus shall ye say, Long live thee]! [to and peace be unto thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be to all that thou hast!
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of meal, and a bottle of wine, and brought him to Yahweh's house in Shiloh. The child was young.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in a wood.
so that it became manifest unto the whole palace guard, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in Christ;
And they came in front of Gibeah, ten thousand of fine men in all Israel, and the fighting became more was fierce; but the children of Benjamin knew not that wickedness was coming on them.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them up into the hand of Midian seven years.
Now therefore what is under thy hand? give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or what there is present.
Be not carried away by divers and strange parties, for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by meats, by which they that fellowship have not benefited.
Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself.
having the same an agony which ye have seen in me, and therefore hear of in me.
And to them in Arara and Eshtemoa
For if we sin wilfully after we received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more a sacrifice for sins,
and Ehud, putteth forth his left hand, and took the sword from off his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly;
And it shall be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do as occasion serve thee; for God is with thee.
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succor them that are tempted.
And he made the tribe of Benjamin come near by families; and the family of the Matrites was taken. And from them, Saul the son of Kish, was taken: but when they sought him he was not where to be seen.
And David said unto Jonathan, "Look, to-morrow is the new moon, And I should certainly sit with the king to eat. Thou shalt send me away that I may hide myself in the field until the third even.
And David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
And in the morning at sunrising, arise and rush the city; and look, when he and the people that are with him come out to thee, thou shalt do according to whatsoever opportunity offereth itself.
And thou shalt called for Jesse in the sacrifice, and I will make thee know that which thou shalt do, and thou hast anointed to me him of whom I speak unto thee.'
And it came to pass, as they came unto him, that he seeth Eliab, and said, `Surely, before Jehovah is his anointed.'
And he said unto his servant, "Come, let us approach one of these places; we will abide in Gibeah or in Ramah."
And they indeed from among the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, have commandment to take tithes from the people according to the law, that is from their brethren, though these are come out of the loins of Abraham:
After a while, the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and put thy finger upon thy mouth and come with us, that we may have thee for a father, and a priest. Whether is better for thee, to be a priest in the house of one man, or in a tribe and family in Israel?
And afterward they cried unto Jehovah, who raised up a saviour, called Ehud, the son of Gera, the son of a Benjamite, who used the left hand as well as the right; And the children of Israel sent to Eglon, king of Moab by him.
Lest there be any fornicator, nor profane person, as Esau, that for one morsel of food sold his birthright.
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
Now at that time the Philistines came together to make war against Israel, and the men of Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped at the side of Eben-ezer: and the Philistines put the battle in array in Aphek.
Then he went on through the wilderness and round the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the the Arnon, they did not come within the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And the people also saw this, he praised their gods, and said the same: Our god hath delivered our adversary into our bands, him that destroyed our country and slew very many.
Who being the brightness of his glory, and the figure of his substance, And upholding all things by the word of his power, making purgation of sins, sitteth on the right hand of the majesty on high.
And all the trees said unto the bramble: Come thou and reign over us.
Thy servant hath smitten down both the lion and the bear, and this uncircumcised Philistine, shall be as one of them, because he defied the array of the living God."
And he saith unto his men, Far be it from me, by Jehovah; I will not do this thing unto my lord for anointed of Jehovah, to put forth my hand against him, for the anointed of Jehovah he .'
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech;
Now therefore stand still, that I may enter into judgment with you before Jehovah concerning all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did to you and to your fathers.
to know him, and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being fashioned according to his death,
Do all things without murmurings and disputings:
Finally, brethren, rejoice in Jehovah: to write the same things unto you, to me not irksome, and for thee.
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his relief, but to them that had not hearkened to the word?
Without faith it is impossible to be well-pleasing unto him; for he that cometh to God must believe that he exists, and that he is a rewarder of them that seek him.
And her husband arose, and followed her, to speak unto her heart, to bring her back, and his young man with him, and a couple of asses: and she brought him into the house of her father, and the father of the damsel, saw him, and rejoiceth to meet him.
And David said unto him, Canst thou bring me down to this troop? And he said, Swear me of God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me up into the hand of my master, and I will bring thee down to this troop;
And all the masters of Shechem are gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and come and cause Abimelech to reign for king at the oak of the camp which in Shechem;
and to a mediator of a new covenant even Jesus, and to blood of sprinkling, speaking better things than that of Abel!
and he fell upon the captives they took sheep and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people did eat them with the blood.
But he himself turned back from the stone idols that were by Gilgal, and said, "I art a message for you, O king." And the king said, "Keep silence!" All that stood by him left him.
And he smote them from Aroer, even till thou come to Minnith, even twenty cities, and unto the Plain of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
Nay, my sons, the account which is given me, which the Lord's people are sending about, is not good.
And your daughters shall he take for perfumers, and for cooks, and for bakers.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the lords of Shechem, and the lords of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
but ye have come to mount Zion and to city of living God, heavenly Jerusalem; and to ten thousands of angels,
Some indeed preach Christ even out of envy and strife, and some also out of good will.
And Samuel said, Why then shalt thou inquire of me, seeing Jehovah is gone from thee, and is become thine enemy?
And all the people rose up as one man and said, Not one of us shall go to his tent or go back to his house:
And had taken the women captives that were in it, both small and great: and they had not killed any person, but had carried them with them, and went their way.
so that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings, being fashioned according to his death,
Accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
Obey your leaders and submit unto them! for they watch on behalf of your souls, as they that will give sakes, that they may do this with joy, and not with groaning, for that will be unprofitable for you.
When Jehovah had visited Hannah, then she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the lad Samuel groweth up with Jehovah.
and this we will do, if God may permit,
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David, and that Michal Saul's daughter loved him.
Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your petitions be made known unto God.
They each stood in his place round about the camp; and all the host ran; and they shouted, and put them abroad.
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell down, by the going about them seven days.
Jonathan said, "Far be it from you; for if I should at all know that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then wouldn't I tell you that?"
To him succeeded Jair the Gileadite, that judged Israel for two and twenty years.
And Gaal son of Ebel and his brethren came, and they passed over into Shechem, and the lords of Shechem gave him confidence.
And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways, and the Lord was with him.
And they went up into the city: and when they were come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them; for to go up to the high place.
And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days agone I fell sick.
"The bramble said unto the trees, 'If in truth thou anoint me king over thee, then come and take refuge in my shade; and if not, let fire come out of feel the and devour the cedars of Lebanon.'
for both he that sanctified and them that are sanctified all of one, for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
Again, "I will put my trust in him." Again, "Behold, here I am with the children whom God hath given me."
And all the children of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from his face, fearing him exceedingly.
Yea, and if I be made a sacrifice upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and bless with you all.
And he said unto her, Give me to drink, I pray thee, a little water for I am thirsty;' and she openeth the bottle of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him.
And your fields, and your vineyards and your oliveyards, the goats; will he take and give unto his servants.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn to his house.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing the reproach.
And that there may be no evil liver, or any man without respect for God, like Esau, that let his birthright go for a plate of food.
And Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons were doing unto all Israel, and that they lay with the women that ministered at the door of the tent of meeting.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed hard after them; and they that came out of the cities destroyed them in the midst of it.
Now when David understood, that Saul secretly prepared evil against him, he said to Abiathar the priest: bring hither the ephod.
And they command the children of Benjamin, saying, Get thee hence, and ye have laid wait in the vineyards,
For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for would be confirmed. is to them an end of all strife.
Jonathan gave his weapons unto his servant and said unto him, "Go, bring them unto the city."
For it is not possible that the blood of bullocks and of goats, should take away sins.
And Jehovah destroyeth Sisera, and all the chariots, and all the camp, with the edge of the sword, before Barak, and Sisera, came down from off the chariot, and fled on his feet.
Then Gideon came to the Jordan, over it with the three hundred men that were with him, weary and pursuing.
And David went over unto the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off: a great space between them.
So from day to day she gave him no peace, for ever ask him until his soul was troubled to death.
And when Saul seeth David went out to meet the Philistine, he hath spoken unto Abner, head of the host, Whose is son this youth, Abner?' and Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I have not known.'
And he took the people, and divided them into three bands, and lay in ambush in the field. And he looked, and, behold, the people came forth out of the city; and he rose up against them and smote them.
They passed from thence to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sins are burned up without the camp.
Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel; for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears:
And after that David came out of the hollow rock, and cry after Saul said, My lord the king. And when Saul was a look back, David went down on his face, and did obeisance.
And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will tell thee what thou shalt do; and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.
And Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a pomegranate, tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
And he left off speaking unto Saul, the soul of Jonathan begat fastened to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
and in nothing affrighted by the adversaries, which is for them a proof of destruction, but unto you of salvation, and that from God.
And he said, why doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
And in the morning, when the fulfilment of the wine was gone, Nabal's wife told him of all these things, and all the heart went out of him, and he became as stone.
And Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, and she sent and called the princes of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time, for he had told me all his heart;' and the princes of the Philistines had come up unto her, and bring up the money in their hand.
So Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob where many worthless men, joined Jephthah, went out with him on his way prosperous.
Jonathan said unto David, "Go in peace, because we have both sworn in Yahweh's name, saying, 'Yahweh is between me and you and my offspring and thy seed, forever.'" And he arose and departed. and Jonathan went into the city.
So they that were gone in took away the graven image, the ephod, and the graven images, and the molten god. And the priest said unto them, What doest thou?
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them that suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body.
And they said, Thou hast not wronged us; neither hast thou crushed us, nor take it from the hand of any one anything.'
Then said Achish unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad; wherefore then have ye brought him unto me?
Then Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: truly thou hast done evil, but do not turn away from the Lord; be his servants with all thy heart;
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek ye me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit, because Endor.
Then said Saul unto Samuel: yea, I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and have walked in the way by which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and Amalek I have slain.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel: Look not on his countenance, nor on the height of his stature; because I have rejected him, neither will I judge after the look of man; for man seeth the things that be manifested, but Jehovah beholdeth the heart.
But he that hath no genealogy from them hath tithed Abraham, and blessed him that had the gifts falsely.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah: We have sinned, do thou unto us whatsoever pleaseth thee: only deliver us this time.
nor that he may many times offer himself, even as the high priest shall enter into the holy places every year with blood of others;
And God rendered back the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did to his father in slaying his seventy brethren.
In those days was there no king in Israel; each one did that which was right in his own eyes;
And it came to pass after the death of Joshua that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Which of us shall go up against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
And on the fourth day they rose up early in the morning, and he rose up to depart. The young lady's father said unto his son-in-law, "Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward ye shall go your way."
And the anger of Saul was kindled against Jonathan, and he saith unto him, Son of a perverse rebellious woman. do not I know that thou art chose the son of Jesse to thy shame, and to the shame of the nakedness of thy mother?
And they ran and fetched him thence: and he stood in the midst of the people, and he was higher than any of the people from the shoulders and upward.
And the king said, Ye shall surely be put to death, Ahimelech, thou and all thy father's house.
For God not unrighteous to forget thy work, and the love which ye have showed to his name, having ministered unto the saints, and ministering.
But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are made partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; who also was gathered after him: and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrow is passed you; then go your way; for Jehovah hath sent you away.
So that punishment for the Moabites. made upon the seventy sons for. and for their blood, might come upon Abimelech, their brother, that put them to death, and upon the inhabitants of Shechem who gave him their help in laying his brethren to death.
And they that were full offered themselves as servants for bread: them that were in need are at rest; Yea, she who had no children is become the mother of seven; and she who had a family is wasted with sorrow.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
For, the priesthood being changed, there cometh upon you of necessity, a change of law also.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have compassion upon me.
And the tribes of Israel send men among all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil which hath been among you?
Then said Jehovah unto Samuel,
And they said unto Jephthah, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight against the children of Ammon.
Then Abigail quickly arose, and rode upon the ass, with five of her handmaids that ministered unto her; and she went after the messengers of David and became his wife;
Therefore Saul cast his spear at him to slay him. So Jonathan knew that his father had determined to have slain David.
And the sons of Judah fight against Jerusalem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and the city they have sent into fire;
But Samuel was not pleased when they said unto him, Give us a king to judge betwixt us. And Samuel entreated Jehovah.
For this cause let us long to come into that rest, and let no man go after the ensample of them that went against God's precepts.
And his servant said unto him, Let all that is in thy mind; behold, I am with you in every impulse of thy heart.
And by faith Moses, when he was grown up, denied himself to be the son of Pharao's daughter;
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
Keep here with me, and have not; for he that hath seek my life hath seek yours: but with me ye shall be delivered.
And David said unto Achish, "Please, if I have found favor in thy sight, then let them give me a place in one of the country cities that I may live thence: why should thy servant live in the royal city with you?"
And the people, the men of Israel, took courage, and set the battle again in array in the place where they put themselves in array one day.
Take heed that ye do not refuse the one that is speaking! For if they did not escape when they refused the one who warned them upon earth, much less shall we escape, if we cast off the one that warns from heaven,
Then said Saul unto the Kenite, Go, turn aside, go down from the midst of Amalek, lest I consume thee with it, and thou didst kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt;' and Kain shall depart from the midst of Amalek.
To whom then did he make an oath that they might not come into his rest? was it not to them that went against him?
If he say, Good; peace for thy servant; and if it be very wroth, him, know that the evil hath been determined by him;
Barak called Zebulun and the land to Kedesh; and they went up behind him, ten thousand men, and Deborah went up with him.
From thence they passed into mount Ephraim. And when they were come to the house of Michas,
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.
for he put his life in hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou didst see it, and didst rejoice; why then canst thou sin against innocent blood, in slaying David without cause?
And it came to pass, when she thrust him daily with her words and urged him, that his soul was weary unto death.
And there were found of Benjamin five and twenty thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Geba,
So sat down themselves they did eat and drink, both of them together; and the girl's father said unto the man, If it be willing, remove thy rest here this night, and let thy heart be glad.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth: and fastened his body to the wall of Bethshan.
And it came to pass, from the day that the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years. And all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
For here we have no appointed resting-place, but our search is for the one which is to come.
And David said unto him, To whom dost thou are called? or whence dost thou come? and whither goest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, the servant of an Amalecite, and my master left me, because I began to be sick three days ago.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray unto Jehovah thy God for thy servants, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins the wickedness to ask for us a king.
So they fled, and made him come forth; and when he took his place among the people, he was taller by a head than any of the people.
And Gideon made an ephod from them and set it up in his city Ophrah: and all Israel went after it there and were false unto Jehovah; and it became a snare unto Gideon and his house.
And now, behold, the king walketh before thee; and I am old and gray-headed. Behold, my sons are with thee; I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
they compassed the Benjamites they have pursued them with ease they have trodden them down until over against Gibeah, at the sunrising.
They shall come to their end; but ye are for ever; they shall wax old like a garment;
And I will shoot three arrows on the side of it, as though I shot at a mark.
And in like manner also thee rejoice and rejoice with me.
As saith the parable of the elders, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Now Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hast hated lawlessness; Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with oil of gladness above thy fellows.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us according to all the nations.
And Samuel said, Is Jehovah had delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices as hearkened unto the voice of Jehovah? behold, Hearkening than sacrifice is worse; to give heed than fat of rams;
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us hinder thee, until we shall have prepared a kid for thee.
So then go and smite Amalek and utterly destroy all that is his! Thou shalt not spare him, but kill both man and woman, both child and sucking child, both ox and sheep, both camel and donkey.'"
They that before had made as if they fled, with their faces stood bravely against them; which the children of Benjamin seeing, turned their backs,
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink, for I am thirsty; And she opened the vial of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
Then he took his staff in his hand, took out for himself five smooth stones from the brook, and he put them in his shepherd's bag, in the pouch. And with his sling in his hand, he drew near to the Philistine.
Then David came to Nob, to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was full of fear as he met David, and said unto him, Why art thou by thyself, having no man with you?
And he went up and told his father and mother, and he said, "I saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines; therefore take her for me as a wife."
And he said unto his lad, Run, find now the arrows which I shoot. The lad ran, and he hath caused the arrow beyond him.
And he had greaves of brass upon its legs, and a spear of brass between his shoulders.
That through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of the Lord, and walk in it, as their fathers kept it, or not.
And the people came to the house of God, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voice, and wept sore,
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvi, and Malchi-shua. And the names of his two daughters: the name of the first-born of Saul, and the name of the younger Michal.
reproved by this selfsame thing, that he who began a good work in thou shalt finish it until the day of Christ Jesus,
In those days was there no king in Israel, and the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day they had not received their lot among the other tribes.
And then one day when Eli was lying in his place (now his eyes had begun to grow weak so that he was not able to see)
And from thence they journeyed to the inhabitants of Debir: now the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty; And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And Manoah took the goat, and the meal-offering, and offereth on the rock unto Jehovah, and he doeth wonderfully, and Manoah and his wife are shall look,
And thou shalt see an oppressor [in my] habitation, among all the good that shall be done unto Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
(Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in deserts; and in mountains, and in holes, and the holes of the earth.
Let us hasten therefore to enter into that rest; lest any man fall into the same example of unbelief.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, all his chariots, and all his army, with the edge of the sword before Barak. Sisera, forsook his chariot and fled away on his feet.
And David brought back all the Amalekite had taken; and he brought back his two wives.
As soon as thou art come into the city, thou shalt straightway find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat: for the people shall not eat, until he come, because he blesseth the sacrifice. afterward they that are bidden eat. Now therefore they go up; for at this time ye shall find him."
And Abimelech gat him up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done.
Then Abishai said unto David, "God hath delivered up thine enemy into thy hand this day. Now therefore I pray thee, let me smite him with the spear to the earth at one stroke, and I will not smite him the second time."
But the matter displeased Samuel when they said, "Give us a king to judge us," so Samuel entreated Jehovah.
Who is faithful to him that made him, as was also Moses in all his house.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
The child is gone, and David rose from Ezel, at the south, and fell on his face to the earth, and bowed himself thrice: and kiss one another, and they weep one with another, till David magnified himself.
And Samuel grew up, and Jehovah was with him. And he did not suffer any of his prophecies to go unfulfilled.
And he numbered them at Bezek; the children of Israel were three hundred thousand and the men of Judah were thirty thousand.
and Jesse took five loaves and a bottle of wine and a kid and sent them to Saul by David.
Zebulun did not make the people of Kitron or the people of Nahalol go forth; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and were put to taskwork.
and Saul casteth the javelin, and said, I smite through David, even through the wall;' and David returned out of his presence twice.
Jonathan told David, saying, "Saul my father seeketh to kill thee. Now therefore, I pray thee, take care of thyself in the morning, and live in a cellar, and hide thyself.
And David took the spear, and the cruse of water at the pillow of Saul, and they went away, and there is none seeing, and there is none knoweth; and there is none wake, for all of them are sleeping, for a deep sleep Jehovah hath fallen upon them.
so that the violence done to the seventy brethren of Abimelech would be avenged and their blood be established on Abimelech their brother, that slew them, and upon the lords of Shechem, that helped to kill his brethren.
Behold, as thy life was respected this day in mine eyes, so let my life be known in Yahweh's eyes, and let him deliver me out of all oppression."
And David said to Achish, Thereby thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Achish said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my soul for ever.
Wherefore David arose, and went he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full end to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And he said unto him, O Jehovah, how shall I be the saviour of Israel? Behold, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
For a tabernacle was set up; the first, wherein both the candlestick and the table and the declaration of the loaves, which is called Holy:
For in a certain place he spake of the seventh day on this wise, And God rested the seventh day from all his works.
And by faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange land, dwelling in tents with Isaac, and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise;
for all the days that the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground thou art not established, thou and thy kingdom; and now, send and bring him unto me, because he was the son of death.'
And when the words were heard that David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul: and he sent for him.
Now therefore stand and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clothed with a coat of mail with scales, and the weight of his coat of mail was five thousand shekels of brass:
Zebulun is a people jeoparded their lives unto death, Naphtali also, upon the high places of the field.
Some indeed also for envy and strife, but some also for good will, preach the Christ.
And Caleb went against the Canaanites of Hebron: (now in old time Hebron was called Kiriath-arba:) and he put Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai to the sword.
And he stayed seven days according to the appointed time Samuel determined: but Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the host rose for them away from him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for to defy Israel is he come up; and it shall be, that the man that smiteth him, him shall the king enrich with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And they took captive the women that were in it, from the youngest to the eldest. They did not kill any man, but carried them off and went their way.
and so to speak, through Abraham even Levi that receiveth tithes, hath paid tithes,
And he said unto him, "Excuse me, my lord. How will I deliver Israel? Behold, my family is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the youngest in my father's house."
And Jehovah leaveth these nations, that they should not drive them away quickly, and did not deliver them into the hand of Joshua.
Saul was in the thick of the battle, and the archers spotted him, and he was sore distressed by the archers.
That all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that showeth me that my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or hath showed unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me to lie in wait, as at this day?
and the golden mice according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines for the five princes, from the fortified city even unto the hamlet of the villages, even unto the great meadow whereon they laid the ark of Jehovah even unto this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-Shemeshite.
So they went up to the city, and when they came into the midst of the city, Samuel met them on his way unto the high place.
And the border of the Amorites was from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb of the flock;
The mighty men ceased; they failed to appear in Israel, until I, Deborah arose; I arose as a mother in Israel.
Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses: and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy maid-servant, and for the young man which is with thy servants; there is no want of any thing.
Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, "Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes."
And Jehovah said unto Gedeon: The people that are with thee are many, and Midian shall not be delivered into their hands: lest Israel should glory against me, and say, I was delivered by mine own strength.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that beholdeth hath said, There hath not been yea, there hath not been seen like this, from the day of the rising of the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt unto this day; set thy upon it, take counsel, and speak.'
There being no man at all who brought them any succour, because they dwelt far from Sidon, and had no sect or business with any man: and the city was in the land of Rehob: and they built it, and dwelt therein.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they abode with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
So David's young men turned on their way and returned, and came and told him according to all these words.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will surely smite him; either his day shall come to die, or he shall descend into battle and perish.
in every where they have gone out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah hath spoken, and as Jehovah hath sworn unto them, and they are distressed even greatly.
And behold, my father, see the skirt of your robe in my hand; for I took off the skirt of thy bosom and did not put thee to death is witness that I have no evil purpose; and I have done you no wrong, though thou waitest for my life to take it.
And at the death of Jair his body was laid in the earth in Kamon.
Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day together.
And Jephthah judged Israel six years, and Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in [one of] the cities of Gilead.
not giving up our solemnities: as is the way of some, but keeping one another strong in faith; and all the more because ye see the day coming near.
and not terrified in anything by them opposing, which to them indeed is a token of destruction, and unto you of salvation, and that from God;
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he teach them diligently in the ears of Jehovah.
And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did neither eat bread, the second day thereof; for he was grieved for David, because his father had handled him shame.
David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and slew them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
Now therefore let it be given out unto the people that whosoever is trembling is to go back from mount Galud. So twenty and two thousand of the people went back, but there were yet ten thousand.
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And awoke from sleep, he said in his mind: I will go out as I did before, and shake myself, not knowing that Jehovah was departed from him.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, as the flame went up from off the altar toward heaven, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar; and Manoah and his wife looked on, and fell on their faces to the ground.
Then said Jehovah unto Samuel, "How long wilt thou mourn about Saul? I have rejected him from being king over Israel. Fill up your horn with oil and go. I will send thee unto Jesse the Beth-lehemite for I have chosen a king for myself among his sons."
And Samuel said unto Saul: Thou hast done foolishly; And hast not kept the commandments of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee. And if thou hadst not done thus, Jehovah would now have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
After the second veil was the tabernacle which is called the Holy of Holies,
1 Having therefore, brethren, boldness for the entrance into the sanctuaries, in the blood of Jesus,
Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
But strong food is for the perfect: for them that by custom have their minds exercised to the discernings of good and evil.
Samson said unto her, "If thou bind me up with seven fresh bowstrings that are not dried up, I will become weak as every one else."
And about dawn Samuel said unto Saul upon the roof; Rise up so that I may send thee away. So Saul rose up, and he and Samuel went out together.
And the forefront of the one was situate northward over against Michmash, and the other southward over against Gibeah.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near unto one of the places, and have lodged in Gibeah, or in Ramah.'
And they said, We will give them most willingly; And spreading a robe on the ground, they cast upon it the earlets of the spoil.
And he took prisoner a young man of the people of Succoth, he rose from him, when he questionings, a writing of the chiefs of Succoth and the elders, seventy and seven men.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily.
Let love of the brethren be established.
And Saul's son Jonathan went to David in Horesh, and made his hands strong in God;
But Nabal answered David's servants and said, "Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse: To-day, there are many servants breaking away from the presence of their masters'
For he that maketh holy and them that are sanctified are all of one families; and therefore it is no shame for him to give them the name of brethren,
And Saul chose him three thousand men out of Israel: there were with Saul two thousand in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed, with a pillow of goats' hair for his bolster.
Thus the Christ also hath not glorified himself to be made a high priest; but he that had said unto him, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi, with the Bishops and Deacons of the church:
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we be afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah against the hosts of the Philistines?
And Achish trusted David, saying, He hath made himself utterly odious among his people Israel; and he shall be my servant for ever.
As many therefore as perfect, let us be thus minded: but if ye are any otherwise minded, this also God shall reveal unto you.
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to offer sacrifices of peace-offerings; seven days shalt thou tarry, until I come unto thee, and show thee what thou shalt do.
looking diligently over lest any man be failing of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up may give trouble, and through this many may be defiled;
Now Jonathan said unto David, Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I sound my father about this time shall the next day, and, behold, there be good toward David, and I then send not unto thee, and apprise thee of it,
And by faith he kept the passover, and shed the blood; that he who destroyed the first-born, might not touch them.
But the righteous shall live by faith; and, if he draw again, my soul doth not take pleasure in him.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth by Ramah:
And he said unto them, Thus and thus hath Micah done unto me; and he hath hired me, and I am his priest.
The garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash.
So he went there to Naioth in Ramah and the Spirit of God came upon him also, and he walked along prophesying until he came to Naioth in Ramah:
And they said unto the messengers that came, "Tell the men of Jabesh-gilead, 'Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, ye shall be rescued.'" And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
And by faith Abel made a better oblation unto God than Cain, and he had witness through it of his righteousness, God unto his favor of his offering: and his voice yet cometh to us through it though he is dead.
Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant is certainly heard that Saul sought to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
The men of Jabesh said, "Tomorrow we will come out to thee, and that thou mayest do unto it seemeth good unto you."
And it came to pass in about ten days that Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died.
And when he came unto a troop, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
Then David put his hand in his sack, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine, in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead. and he fell upon his face to the earth.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekite and the children of the east were gathered together, and passed over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And he had two wives: the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
And that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were an half acre of land, which a yoke of oxen, might plow,
And the men did so; and took two milch cows and bound them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home;
And he asked water, and she gave him milk; she brought forth butter, in a lordly dish.
And David sent out watchers, and rose word from them that Saul was certainly coming.
And he brought the present unto Eglon, king of Moab, and Eglon, was a very fat man.
Let it be, when these signs are come unto you, that ye do that which is meet for the time also; for God is with you.
Now therefore stand still, that I may reason with you before the Lord of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did to you and to your fathers.
And it came to pass at his fulfilling to cause the to offer burnt-offerings, that, behold, Samuel hath come, and Saul went out to meet him, to bless him;
And his father went down unto the woman, and Samson maketh there a feast, for so the young men do;
Behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, "Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seek." He came unto her; and behold, Sisera, lay dead, and the pin was in his temples
And she said unto him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" And he arose from his sleep and said, "I shall go forth even as every other time and shake myself free," and he knew not that Jehovah had left him.
Here, then is the king marked out by you: Jehovah hath put a king over you.
and she brought it near before Saul, and before his servants, and they did eat. And they rose up and went away that night.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
And on their way down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Give thy servant a decree to before us, (so he went on,) but ye keep hither, that I may give you the word of God.
And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, "What wickedness is this that is come to pass among you?
(and the six hundred men girded with their weapons of war, that of the children of Dan stand at the door of the gate), even
So David recovered all that the Amalecites had taken, and he delivered his two wives.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he selleth them into the hand of Chushan-Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia, and the children of Israel serve Chushan-Rishathaim eight years;
I thank my God for my whole remembrance of you,
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead and made war on Ephraim; and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim.
And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem, and his weapons he hath put in his own tent.
And behold, Barak followeth after Sisera, and Jael came out against him, and said unto him, Come, and I show thee the man whom thou art seeking;' and he came in unto her, and behold, Sisera, as is fallen dead, and the nail in his temples
So he showed them the entrance of the city, and they smote the city with the edge of the sword, but they let go the man and all his house.
Then were the horsehoofs broken by means of the pransings, the pransings of their mighty men.
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul is smitten his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
and there shall be the file for mattocks, and for coulters, and for three-pronged rakes, and for the axes, and to set up the the goad.
Now the children of Israel had also sworn in Mizpah, saying, none of us shall give of his daughters unto the children of Benjamin to wife.
The children of Dan sent five men of their family from their whole number, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said unto them, "Go, spy out the land!" And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, do that which seemeth good unto thee, and tarry till thou wean him: and I pray that Jehovah may daily perform his word. So the woman abode at home, and gave her son suck till she weaned him.
For behold he that endured such enmity by sinners against himself, that ye will not be weary in your souls and give up.
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them.
Now Gilead had a wife of whom he had sons: that after they were grown up, thrust out Jephte, saying, Thou canst not inherit in the house of our father, because thou art born of another mother.
And behold, if it went up by the way of his own border to Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance that happened unto us.
And he saith unto me, Behold, thou art pregnant, and bear a son; and now shall not drink wine and strong drink, and do not eat any unclean thing, for a Nazirite to God is the lad from the womb till the day of his death.'
Moreover he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the ministry.
Moreover the Glory of Israel will not break faith and will not regret, for he is not a man that he should regret."
And they gathered together unto Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and they fasted on that day, and they said there: We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And her husband followed her, willing to be reconciled with her, and to speak kindly unto her, and to bring her back with him, having with him a servant and two asses, and she received him, and brought him into her father's house. And when his father-in-law had heard this, and had seen him, he met him with joy,
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the broad place of the city; and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
But chose to be exercised with the people of God, Than to have the pleasure of sin for a time,
Then he said unto her, "What is his appearance?" And she said, "An old man cometh up, and he was clothed with a robe." Therefore Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he kneeled with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Baalberith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light persons, who followed him.
And the men of Israel have seen that they are afflicted, that the people shall be oppressed, and the people hide themselves in the caves and in thickets, and in rocks, and in the high places, and in destructions.
(Nor were the children of Benjamin ignorant that the children of Israel were come up to Maspha.) And the Levite the husband of the woman that was killed, being asked, how so great a wickedness had been committed,
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah had given thee this day into my hand in the cave, and they bade me slay thee; but [mine eye] spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
But when he came from the battle before the sun rising,
Because it was right for him, for whom and through whom all things have do guiding his sons to glory, to make the captain of their salvation complete through sorrow.
Now the Philistines assembled all the battle at Aphek, and Israel was encamped in the fountain that is in Jezreel.
and Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not choose these.
And David said to Achish, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I should not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And now, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath restrained thee from coming with the slaughter, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil unto my lord, be as Nabal.
Let us fear therefore, lest haply any man of you should seem to have fall short of the promise of entering into his rest.
Whereby he is able also to save for ever them that come to God through him; always living to make intercession for us.
Also before they have burned incense with the fat then hath the priest's servant come in, and said to the man that sacrificeth Give flesh to roast for the priest, and he shall not take of thee flesh dressed, but raw;'
Then Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child became the servant of Jehovah under the hand of Eli the priest.
And Manasseh did not take away the land of the people of Beth-shean and its towns, or of Taanach and its towns, or of the people of Dor and its towns, or of the people of Ibleam and its towns, or of the people of Megiddo and its towns, driving them out: but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
(Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he would say, "Come, let us go up to the seer." For the prophet of this day was Luz called a seer.)
He will keep the feet of his saints: But the wicked shall be destroyed in the darkness, because a man shall not prevail by his might.
Then said Saul unto his servants that stood by him, Hear now, ye Benjaminites: will the son of Jesse give every one of you also fields and vineyards? Will he make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds,
shall with the fruit of righteousness, through Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God.
In burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure.
So that all which fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these were mighty men of valor.
Forty years; for which cause I was offended with this generation, and I said, They always err in heart. And they have not known my ways,
But God clave the hollow place that is in a troop, and water came out of it. And when he had drunken, his spirit returned, and he revived: therefore the name of it was called and Hakkore, which is in a troop, unto this day.
And when the Philistine, looked about and saw David, he disdained him; for he was a youth, and ruddy, and besides well-favored.
Then said Saul unto Jonathan: tell me, what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod, which was in my hand, and behold, I must die:
and there is none to save; for it far off from Sidon, and they have no word with man, and it in the valley which by Beth-Rehob; and they build the city, and dwell therein,
And they called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
behold, ye all sons of Israel; give for you a word and counsel here.'
Neither by the blood of goats, and bullocks, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, hath obtained eternal redemption for us.
And David arose, and fled that day from before Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath;
lest any man be a fornicator, or a profane person, as Esau, that in exchange for one morsel of food did sell his birthright,
and changed his manner of life before their eyes, and feigned himself mad in their hand, and scribbleth on the doors of the gate, and let down his issue spit unto his beard.
And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was fleece his sheep in Carmel.
And had taken the women captives, that were therein: they slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went their way.
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.
And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep.
For ye came not near to the mount touched and scorched with fire, and to blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
And Dalila said unto him, How shalt thou say thou lovest me, when thy soul is not with me? Thou hast told me lies these three times, and wouldest not tell me wherein thy great strength lieth.
But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
Now Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Wherefore shall he be slain. what hath he done?
And they called to the children of Dan, which turned about to face them, and they said unto Micah, "What aileth thee that thou assembled together?"
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood in the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
The children of Hobab, the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, went up with the children of Judah from the city of palms into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the South near Arad. And they went and dwelt with the people.
And when they saw him, they took thirty companions, and they were with him.
And Saul said, Hear now, O son of Ahitub, And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
And Saul fell straightway his full length on the earth, and was sore afraid of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day nor all the night.
And the priest said unto them, "Go in peace. Thy way wherein ye go is before Yahweh."
by so much more Jesus is become the guarantee of a better covenant.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done unto the man that smiteth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the hosts of the living God?
who is the light of his glory and the tidings of his essence, sustaining all things by the word of power. And when he had made a sins through him, he sat down at the right hand of the Honor on high,
Saul said, "You are blessed of Jehovah; for thou hast had compassion on me.
Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, Than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season;
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old. His eyes were placed, so that he could not see.
and as it is laid up to men once to die, and afterward, judgment,
And he said unto them, What ye shall see me do, do you the same: I will go into one part of the camp, and do you as I shall do.
And the priest said unto David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is sanctified bread; if the young men have kept themselves at least from women.
And he dealt bravely and smote the Amalekite and rescued Israel from the hand of them that plundered it.
Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. Samuel said unto Jesse, "Yahweh hath not chosen these."
Samuel said unto Jesse, "Are all your children here?" And he said, "There remaineth yet the youngest: Behold, he is keeping the sheep." Samuel said unto Jesse, "Send and get him, for we will not sit down until he come here."
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, The people are yet too many; bring them down unto the water, and I will try them for thee there: and it shall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
Now therefore thus saith we will do to the hill: we will go up against her by lot.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites: have not I sent thee?
and to them that are in Rachal, and to them in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them in the cities of the Kenite,
And she said, Oh, my lord, thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee hither to pray unto Jehovah.
And he said unto her, "If they only bind me with new ropes with which no work is done, then shall I become weak, and be as another man."
And Saul's daughter Michal was in love with David: and Saul had word of it, and was pleased.
And as for the asses which are lost to thee this day three days, set not thy heart unto them! for they have been found; and to whom all the desire of Israel?' is it not to thee and to all thy father's house?'
And the children of Israel ask of Jehovah, and there the ark of the covenant of God in those days,
When they were at Jebus, and the day was far all spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.
And Micaiah said, Now I know that Jehovah will good unto me, for the Levite hath been to me for a priest.'
When he returned the pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother took two hundred pieces of silver, and she gave it unto the smiths; and he made it into an idol molten calf: and it was in the house of Micah.
For unto us was the gospel preached as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mingled with faith in them that heard it.
And the children of Ammon gathered themselves together, and encamped in Gilead, and the children of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in Mizpah.
who doesn't need, like them high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people. For he did this once for all, when he offered up himself.
And Heber Kain was separated from the other Kenites that is, from the children of Hobab, the father-in-law of Moses. And he was encamped in Elon-bezaanannim, which is beside Kedesh.
And they send and gather all the princes of the Philistines unto them, and say, What shall we do unto the ark of the God of Israel?' and they say, To Gath let the ark of the God of Israel be brought round;' and they bring again the ark of the God of Israel;
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my new wine, which maketh glad God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
Therefore arise in the morning, thou, and thy lord's servants, that came with thee: and when ye are up before day, and it shall begin to be light; go on your way.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and worship him for a piece of silver, and a loaf of bread, and will say, "Please put me into one of the priests' offices, that I may eat a morsel of bread."'"
So they turned to that report concerning him: and they came to the house of the young Levite, the house of Micah, and they saluted him.
having the same an agony which ye saw in me, and therefore hear to be in me.
But he, whose pedigree is not numbered among them, received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the gifts falsely.
David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul.
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and they said, "Send the ark of the God of Israel away, and let it go again to its own place, that it not kill us and our people." For there was a deadly confusion throughout all the city. The hand of God was very heavy there.
And he divided the three hundred men into three bands, and he put trumpets and empty the vessels in everyone's hand, with lanterns within the flagons.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware.
and he called hastily unto the young man bearing his armor, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and thou shalt put me to death, lest they say of me with a woman slew him;' and his young man pierced him through, and he died.
And it came to pass at the end of two months that she returned unto her father, and he did to her his vow which he voweth, and she knew not a man; and it is a statute in Israel:
Saul called the people, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
What shall we do about wives for them that are yet alive? For we have sworn by the Lord that we will not give them our daughters for wives.
Gideon said unto him, "Oh, my lord, if Jehovah is with us, why then hath all this happened unto us? Where are all his marvellous works that our fathers told us of, saying, 'Didn't Jehovah bring us up from Egypt?' But now Jehovah hath cast us off, and delivered us into the hand of Midian."
And Ehud, put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly:
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter of Saul, her will I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
And the children of Israel dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
And it was so, for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and wringed the dew out of the ones among a bowl full of water.
Then Achish called David, and said unto him, "As Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight; for I have found no evil in you since the day of thy coming to me unto this day. nevertheless the lords don't favor you.
And Hannah answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a broken spirit: I have drunk no wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
After this he was in great need of water, and cried unto Jehovah, he said, Thou hast given this great salvation by the hand of thy servant, and now need of water shall be my death; and I will be given into the hand of this people that are without circumcision.
And that were in Ramah, and and that were in the lake Ashan, and that were in Athach,
And when the child was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; now Ehud, was dead.
So I have given him to Jehovah; for all his life he is the Lord's. And he gave the Lord worship there.
And Barak hath pursued after the chariots and after the camp, unto Harosheth of the Goiim, and all the camp of Sisera, falleth by the mouth of the sword, even there remained not one.
And after the death of Joshua the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up before us against the Canaanite, and shall be the prince of the war?
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things have honor, whatsoever things are upright, whatsoever things are holy, what things soever art fair, whatsoever things are thereof, if there be any power and if there be any praise, will give heed to these things.
And he arose early in the morning in the fifth day to depart; but the damsel's father said, refresh thy heart, I pray thee. And they lingered until the afternoon, and they did eat both of them.
And she vowed a vow, and said, "Yahweh of hosts, if ye will look upon the affliction of thy servant, and remember me, and not forget thy servant, but will give to thy servant young, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life; and there shall no razor come upon his head."
1 Be fellow ye imitators of me, brethren, and observe them that walk after this manner, even as thou hast us Envy
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjaminites that day five and twenty thousand a hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And it came to pass on the morrow, the Philistines came to strip the dead and they found Saul and his three sons lying dead in mount Gilboa.
And they went up into the city. And as they were coming into the midst of the city, behold, Samuel was coming out southward of them, to go up to the high place.
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly, so that I also may be comforted when I know your circumstances.
Now Jonathan said, My father hath terrified the land; behold, I pray you, that mine eyes are become bright because I tasted a little of this honey.
And they ran and fetched him thence; and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, "Why should he be put to death? What hath he done?"
And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
In due time, Hannah conceived, and bare a son: and she called his name Samuel, for she said, "I requested him from Yahweh."
This he put into the pot, and all that came up upon the hook the priest took for himself. This they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that were present.
For if Jesus had given them rest, he would not have afterward spoken of another day.
And, Thou in the beginning, Jehovah, hast laid the foundations of the earth, and works of thy hands are the heavens.
So she wept before Samson and complain, saying, Thou hatest me, and shalt not love me: therefore thou wilt not could declare unto me the dark saying which thou hast was minded to the sons of my people. And he said, I would not tell it to my father and mother, and how can I tell it to thee?
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, if Jehovah will smite him, or his day shall come to die, or he shall go down to battle and perish;
And by faith also Sarah herself, being barren, received strength to conceive seed, even past the time of age; because she believed that he was faithful who had promised,
that ye may be blameless, and faith children of God, without reproof, in the midst of a perverse and perverse generation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world.
To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and upon him shalt thou put the anointing oil, making him prince over my people Israel, and he will deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have seen the sorrow of my people, whose cry is come up to me.
Here you all are, ye children of Israel; give now thy right concerning that which is to be done.
So may all your enemies perish, O Jehovah, but they that love him are like the rising sun in its brightest." And the land had rest forty years.
And the men of Israel besides Benjamin were counted four hundred thousand sword-wielding men; all were men.
And the day cometh, and Elkanah sacrificeth and he hath given to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters; portions,
Gilead dwelt over Jordan; and Dan waited in his ships; Asher kept in his place by the sea's edge, living by his inlets.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning; and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever is good in thy sight. Then said the priest, Let us come near hither to God.
And a man of God came to Eli and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I appeared unto thy father's people when they were in Egypt, servants in Pharaoh's house?
and they carried the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the coffer, and the golden mice, and the images of their emerods.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not turn back with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath cast thee from being king over Israel.'
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul unto the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
Then Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovahshalom: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And David went up from thence, and abode in the strongholds of En-gedi.
And the children of Dan went their way. When Micah saw that they were stronger than him, he turned to return to his house.
And Gad the prophet said unto David, Abide not in the stronghold, come forth, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Haret.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up in the bed unto me,' to put him to death.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: every male, and every woman that hath known man by lying with a man, thou shalt put to the curse, but ye are to keep safe the virgins. And they did so.
And Michal Saul's daughter loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing was right in his sight.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust; from the dunghill; he lifted up the needy, To set among nobles; And he maketh them inherit a throne of glory; For the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath set eternity upon them.
And the elders of the assembly said, What shall we do for wives for them that remain? for the women have been destroyeth out of Benjamin.
Then Elkanah went to Ramah, to his house. And the boy was serving Jehovah in the presence of Eli the priest.
And all the people came into the forest; and there was honey on the ground.
And they waited until they were put to shame; and, behold, he didn't open the doors of the upper chamber. therefore they took the key and opened them, and, behold, their lord had fallen down dead on the ground.
And he took Agag, king of the Amalekites, prisoner, and put all the people to the sword without mercy.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loveth David, and they told Saul, and the thing is right in his eyes,
But now, thy authority will not go on: Jehovah, Searching for a man that pleaseth him in every way, hath given him the place of ruler over his people; because ye have not done that which the Lord gave you a decree to do.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Should I pursue after this band of raiders? Will I overtake them?" He saith unto him, "Pursue them, for thou shalt surely overtake them, and thou shalt surely deliver them."
And thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God in the top of this rock, whereupon thou didst lay the sacrifice before his face: and thou shalt take the second bullock, and shalt offer a burnt-offering upon a pile of the wood, which thou shalt cut down out of the Asherah.
Now the Philistines gathered all their host together at Aphek: and the children of Israel put the battle in array by the fountain in Jezreel.
without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life; But resembling the Son of Godhe abideth a priest for all time.
And the Philistines gathered their camps for battle and they gathered themselves together at Soco which belongeth to Judah. And they encamped between Soco and Azekah, in Ephes Dammim.
He will take thy fields and thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyards, all the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
And they rose up and went up to Beth-el to inquire of God, and the children of Israel said, Who is to be the first to go up to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And the Lord said, Judah is to go up first.
Then shall it be that the rest of your family, every one that hath not been cut off, will go down upon his knees unto him for a piece of silver or a piece of bread, and say, Be pleased to put me into one of the priest's places so that I may have a little food.
Therefore Saul straightway fell down to the ground, and he was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel: there was no more strength in him; for he had not eaten food all the day and all night.
And he said unto her, "Get up, and let us be going!" but none answered. And he took her up on the donkey; and the man rose up, and went unto his place.
Remember them that have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their in the way.
Wherefore kick ye at my sacrifice and at mine oblation, which I have commanded in my birth; and shalt glorify thy sons more than me to make yourselves fat with the ascent of all the offerings of Israel my people?
And when the second day after the new moon was come, David's place appeared empty again. Then said Saul unto Jonathan his son Why cometh not the son of Jesse to food neither yesterday nor to day?
So David took the spear and the pitcher of water from Saul's head; and they went away, and no man saw it, or knew it, nor did any awake, for they were all asleep, because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not anything unclean; for the lad shall be a Nazirite of God from the womb to the day of his death.
Therefore Saul said, I have done perversely; returned unto me, David my son: I will do you no more wrong, because my life was dear unto you this day, behold, I have been foolish and my error is very great.
And the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed, for they saw that evil was fallen upon them.
Then Achish said unto his servants, Behold, the man is clearly off his head; why hast thou let him come before me?
And Jair died, and was buried in Camon.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh. for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by Yahweh's word.
Since the day the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, days multiplied, and waxed twenty years. And all the house of Israel mourned after Jehovah.
We may fear, therefore whether a promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you may seem to have come short,
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, where a bed was made ready for Saul, he went to rest.
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the land of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.
For they indeed, for a few days, punished us as seemed good unto them; but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holy words.
And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight against my land?
Therefore Saul said, "This shall ye say unto David, 'The king lusts no dowry except for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to avenge himself upon the enemies of the king.'" Now Saul had thought to suffer David to fall by the hand of the Philistines.)
The Holy Spirit signifying this, that the way into the most was not yet made manifest, while the former tabernacle was yet stay thereof.
And rejoicing in their feasts, when they had now taken their good cheer, they commanded that Samson should be called, and should play before them. And being brought out of prison he played before them, and they made him stand between two pillars.
Finally, brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things unto you, to me indeed is not tiresome, but for you it is safe.
And Samuel is ministering the presence of Jehovah, a youth girt an ephod of linen;
and I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell. But ye have not hearkened to my voice.
who hath been made a priest not according to the law of every day required, he hath but according to the power of an indestructible life.
And God made a noise in the cave of Lehi and water came out of it; and after drinking, his spirit came to meet him, and he was strong again, that place was called En-hakkore; it is in Lehi unto this day.
Him therefore I hope to send unto thee forthwith, so soon as I shall see how it shall go with me.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, "There are yet too many troops: bring them down to the water, and I will sift through them for you there. For whomsoever I say unto you, 'This one will go with you,' he shall go with thee; and for all whom I say unto you, 'This one will not go with you,' he will not go."
After him Ibzan from Bethlehem, judged Israel.
regarding not every man his own, but each those of others also.
And he laid hold on both the pillars on which the house rested, and holding the one with his right hand, and the other with his left,
whatsoever cometh forth from the doors of my house to meet me when I return in peace from the children of Ammon shall be Yahweh's, and I will offer it for a burnt-offering, an offering."
Not that I have already obtained or am already made perfect: but I press on, if so be that I may take hold of that for which also I was taken in Christ Jesus.
We have an altar of which they have no right to eat that serve the tabernacle.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, son of Ahimelech, Bring near, I pray thee, unto me the ephod;' and Abiathar brought them near the ephod unto David,
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the little ones of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why hast thou spoken unto me according to this word?'
Therefore Saul gave David his raiment of war, and put a mitre of brass upon his head, and had him clothed with a coat of metal.
Then said Saul unto his uncle, "He told us for certain that the asses had been found." But he told him not about the matter of the kingdom of which Samuel had spoken.
But my righteous shall live by faith; but if he withdraw himself, he shall not please my soul.
For know ye that after that, when he desired to inherit the blessing he was rejected; for he found no place of repentance, although with tears he had sought it.
And he remained encamped, for seven days, the time appointed of Samuel: but Samuel came not to Gilgal: and the people were beginning to depart from him.
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say unto David, The king doth not desire any dowry but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
The old man said, "Peace be unto you: how ever let me supply all your needeth. Righteous don't sleep in the street."
For we know him that said, To me vengeance: I will recompense, saith Jehovah; and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
And they found Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and they fought against him. And they smote the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
and ye have made images of your emerods, and images of your mice that are to corrupt the land, and have given honor unto the God of Israel; it may be he will lighten his hand from off thee, and from off thy gods, and from off thy land;
And after him was Samgar the son of Beth-anath, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with a ploughshare: and he also defended Israel.
and said unto him, Behold now, thou shalt be old, and your sons go not in thy ways: give us a king now to be our judge, that we may be as the other nations.
And she said, I will go with thee, only that it shall not be to thine honor upon the way which thou goest, for Jehovah will sell Sisera, into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up and came to Beth-el, and wept, and abode there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even; and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place and dine with me this day; and in the morning I will let you go, after door to you all the secrets of thy heart.
He raiseth up the needy from the dust, and lifted up the needy from the dunghill; that he may sit with princes, and hold the throne of glory. For the staves of the earth are the Lord's, and upon them he hath set the world.
The burden of the rings of gold that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, apart from the the crescents; pendants, and purple garments that were on the kings of Midian, and besides the pendants, that were upon the necks of their camels.
because of thy fellowship with the gospel, from the first day until now:
And having a great high priest, who hath made his way through the heavens, even Jesus the Son of God, let us play the man in our faith.
And they rose up early in the morning, behold, following Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before Yahweh's ark; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off on the threshold. Only Dagon's torso was widow.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten.And the men of Israel gave place to Benjamin, because they trusted to the ambush that they had set against Gibeah.
The mountains quaked before the face of Jehovah, that Sinai, from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
because he was longing for all of you and was distressed because ye had heard that he was sick.
And he took thirty friends, and they were with him.
And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abi-ezrites.
Now Jonathan smote the outpost of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard [of it]. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web.
Yea, I ask also you, true yokefellow, help them, who struggled together with me in the gospel with both Clement and the rest of my fellow-workers that are written in the book of life.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malchishua; and the name of his two daughters were these: the name of the first-born of Saul, and the name of the younger Michal.
For ground which drinketh the rain which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth useful herbs for them for whose sakes also it is tilled, greeting partaketh of blessing from God;
Without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life; But likened unto the Son of God, continueth a priest for ever.
But Zebee and Salmana dwelt with all their army. For fifteen thousand men were left of all the bands of the east people, and a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword, were slain.
And she said unto him, "How canst thou say, 'I love you,' when your heart is not with me? Thou hast mocked me these three times, and ye have not told me how thy strength is so great."
and I will draw unto thee, to the brook Kishon, Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, and his chariots and his multitude, and I will give him into thy hand.
And it was told Saul that David had come in unto Keilah, and Saul said, God hath made him known for my hand, for he was shut in, to enter into a city of doors and bar.'
And the time that David abode in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months.
And Samuel groweth up, and Jehovah was with him, and hath not let fall any of his words unto the earth;
And his father and mother knew not that this was from Jehovah; he sought for an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines reigned in Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Though thou shouldest hinder me, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou wilt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it up to Jehovah. For Manoah knew not that he was the angel of Jehovah.
After whom dost thou pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and took off her ass, falling down on her face before him.
And David checked his men with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul; and Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on way.
For he of whom these things are said, belongeth unto a different tribe, of which no man hath love upon the service of the altar.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them from the city unto the paths.
And David said to Abner, Art thou not a man? and who is like unto thee in Israel? and why hast thou not guarded thy lord the king? for one of the people came in to destroy the king thy lord.
Then David said, "Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?" Jehovah said, "They will deliver thee up."
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name? when thy words come to pass, then we have honored thee.'
And they went out by a postern door; and the king's servants went in, saw the doors of the parlour shut, and they said, Surely he is easing nature in his summer parlour.
And though they were all approved through their faith, they did not receive what was promised,
And the people answered him the same words saying, These things shall be given to the man that shall slay him.
And make straight steps with your feet: that no man fall; may go out of the way; but rather be healed.
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking-places where he hideth himself, and come again to me with assurance; and I will go with thee: it shall come to pass, if he is in the land, that I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah."
And Nabal answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse: there be many servants now a days that break away every man from his master.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.
On that day God subdued Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
And the men of Israel say, Have ye seen this man that cometh up? for, to defy Israel he cometh up, and it shall come to pass, that whosoever smiteth him, the king doth enrich him with great riches, and his daughter there shall be given unto him, and his father's house shall make free in Israel.'
where your fathers tempted it, proving it, and saw my works forty years.
And David took the head of the Philistine, brought it to Jerusalem: but his armor he put in his tent.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; nevertheless the journey that thou takest shall not be for thine honor; for Jehovah shall sell Sisera, into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And David said to Abigal Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me;
And Nahash the Ammonite came up and encamped against Jabesh-Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, That is the cause we have return unto you, so go with us, and make war against the children of Ammon, and we will make thee our head over all the people of Gilead.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
David arose, and went he and his men, and slew two hundred men of the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full number unto the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. Therefore Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
Now when they came, looked upon Eliab, he said, knowing the man of the Lord's election is before him.
So that ye may be holy and gentle, children of God without sin in a twined and perverse generation, among whom thou art seen as lights in the world,
And David went up from thence, and abideth in fortresses En-gedi.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth; and fastened his body to the wall of Beth-shan.
Now all the bands of the Philistines were gathered together to Aphec: and Israel also encamped by the fountain which is in Jezreel.
Now Heli was ninety and eight years old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see.
So he sent and brought him. Now he was ruddy with fair eyes and of desirable vision. And Jehovah said, "Arise, anoint him, for this is he."
Manoah said unto his wife, "We shall surely die, because we have seen God."
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the citizens of Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
For this cause I must more exceedingly to take heed to the things heard, lest we may things aside,
And Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner were the sons of Abiel.
And this whole assembly shall know that Jehovah doth not deliver with sword and with spear, for the battle belongeth unto Jehovah, and he will give thee into our hands!"
Now in the things which we are saying, the house, to point is this. We have such a high priest, that sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Honor in the heavens,
So Jephthah went over to the children of Ammon to make war upon them; and Jehovah gave them into his hand.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
By faith, Noah, being warned of God about things not yet seen, moved with godly fear, prepared a ship for the saving of his house, through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith.
And the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam and the point of his spear was six hundred iron shekels. His shield bearer was walking in front of him.
And the men of Israel, other than Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with swords; they were all men of war.
They shall ask how thou doest and will give thee two loaves, which thou shalt take out of their hand.
And he took both the oxen, he cut them in pieces, and sent them into all the borders of Israel by Amaziah king of Judah, saying, Whosoever shall not come forth, and follow Saul and Shemuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they went out as one man.
Now therefore, if ye have here five cakes of bread, deliver them into my hand, or whatsoever thou hast:
And when thou shalt hear what they are saying, then shall thy hands be strong, and thou shalt go down more sure to the enemies' camp. And he went down with Phara his servant into part of the camp, where was the watch of men in the arms.
Marriage must be held in honor of all men, and the marriage bed be undefiled, because God will judge fornicators, and adulterers.
But Saul said nothing that day, for his thought was, Something hath taken place making him unclean: it is evident that he shall not be clean.
Rejoice in the Lord alway; again, I will say, rejoice;
But David said unto Saul, "Who am I, and who are my kindred, the family of my father in Israel, that I should be a son-in-law to the king?"
Without covetousness the conduct, being content with the things present, for he hath said, Not so, I will not leave of them, no, nor forsake thee,'
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaim Zophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.
And this will we do, if God permit.
And the man Micah had a house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
Then for. that is, Gideon, and all the people with him, rose up early and encamped by the side of the well of Harod; the tents of Midian were on the north side of him, under the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And Joash saith unto all that have stood against him, Hear do ye plead for Baal. shall ye save him? he that pleadeth in him shall be put to death in the morning; if he a god he himself will plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.'
"The trees said unto the fig tree, 'Come and reign over us.'
Therefore fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth and with your whole heart, for thou hast seen his marvellous works that he hath done among you.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
and we have be, even we, like unto all the nations; and our king hath judged us, and gone out before us, and fought our battles.'
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered; and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her pangs came upon her.
Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, "Who among all thy servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is taken into your council, and honorable in thy house?
And Elkanah went to Ramatha, to his house; But the child ministered in the sight of Jehovah before the face of Heli the priest.
And Samuel said, Art not thou, if thou little in thine own eyes, head of the tribes of Israel? and Jehovah hath anointed thee king over Israel,
whose voice the earth shook then, and now hath he promised, saying, Yet once will shake not only the earth, but also the heaven;'
And the house shall be full of men and women, and thither all the princes of the Philistines, and upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that desire upon the playing of Samson.
Israel was very poor because of the presence of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried out unto Jehovah.
For we have not a high priest that is not able to be touched by the heart of our feeble flesh; but we have one that hath tried me, in all points as we ourselves are proved, but without sin.
Be glad in Jehovah, at all seasons: again I say, All hail.
Behold, the days are coming, when thine arm and the arm of your father's people shall be cut off;
Of whom the world was not worthy. wandering in deserts; in mountains, and in dens, and In holes of the earth.
And her adversary also provoked her sore, for to make her thyself, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.
But he said unto me, 'Behold, ye shall conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, and don't eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb to the day of his death.'"
Therefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness: without which no man shall see God.
David's men said unto him, "Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we go to Keilah against the hosts of the Philistines?"
Now there was no smith to be found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines had taken this precaution, lest the Hebrews should make them swords or spears:
And Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, "What is between me and thee that thou art come unto me to make war against my land?"
But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.
And he was sore athirst, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great victory into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the in uncircumcision?
not that forsake the gathering together of ourselves together, as the custom with some. but exhorting [one another], and by so much the more as ye see the day drew near.
And his sons did not go in his ways, but moved by the love of money took gifts and were not upright in judgment.
And a high priest over the house of God:
Having thirty sons that rode upon thirty ass colts, and were princes of thirty cities, which from his name were called Havvoth-jair, is, the cities of Jair, until this present day in the land of Gilead.
So they cut down boughs from the trees, every man as fast as Kir-heres: and followed their head. And round about the fortresses they set it on fire; and so it came to pass that with the smoke and with the fire a thousand persons were killed, men and women together, of the inhabitants of the tower of Shechem.
Manoah said unto Yahweh's angel, "Please abide with us, that we may make a kid ready for you."
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath; and he sought no more again for him.
Nevertheless whereto we have already one to redeem it, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind likewise.
that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and that their blood might be laid upon Abimelech their brother, that slew them, and upon the men of Shechem, that strengthened his hands to kill his brethren.
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering (for he is faithful that hath promised),
And Achis believed David, saying, He hath done much evil to his people Israel: therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of its sheath, and slew him thoroughly, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their mighty was dead, they fled.
And when ye shall see the daughters of Shiloh come out, as the custom is, to dance, come ye to fall out of the vineyards, and overtake you every man his wife among them, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off them that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? after whom art thou pursuing? after a dead dog! after one flea!
Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, Send me David thy son, who is with the sheep.
For the hand of he was sick almost to death: but God had mercy on him; and not only on him but on me, that I should not have sorrow on sorrow.
And it came to pass, when the morrow was come that Saul put the people in three companies: and he came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and he slew the children of Ammon until the day waxed hot, and the rest were scattered abroad, so that two of them were not left together.
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
So Midian was subdued before the children of Israel, and they lifted up their heads no more. And the land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
And he said unto him, Ah Jehovah, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my thousand is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And he left off prophesying, and came to the high place,
For we are the circumcision, that worship God in the Spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh:
Remember the prisoners, as though thou wast fellow-prisoners; remember the mistreated, as though ye yourselves are being ill-treated in the body.
And Jehovah smote a terror into Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his multitude, with the edge of the sword, at the sight of Barac, insomuch that Sisara leaping down from off his chariot, fled away on foot:
And Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah:
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
for they were not bearing that which is commanded, And if a beast may touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or with an arrow shot through,'
Then the prophet Gad, said unto David, "You should not abide in the stronghold; leave and go into the land of Judah." And David went and came to the forest of Hereth.
And when he had lifted up his eyes, and saw a wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
Elkanah her husband said unto her, "Do what is good in thine eyes. Wait till thou have weaned him; only may Jehovah establish his word." So the woman waited and nursed her son, until she weaned him.
Then said Saul unto Michal, Why hast thou beguiled me so, and sent away mine enemy: that he is yet escape? And Michal said unto Saul, And he said unto me, Let me go: why should I slay thee?
that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, that slew them, and upon the citizens of Shechem, who had strengthened his hands to slay his brethren.
And Gaal went out to meet the masters of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech,
and have seen, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards, and overtake you every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
And by faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, made ready an ark for the salvation of his family, because God had given him tidings of things which were not seen at the time; and through it the world was judged by him, and he rose for his inheritance the righteousness which is by faith.
And Gaal went out to meet the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech;
They are going down in the uttermost part of the city, and Samuel hath said unto Saul, Say unto the young man that he pass on before us (and he passeth on), and thou, stand at this time, and I will cause thee to hear the word of God.'
He restored the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, then his mother said, "I verily dedicate the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image. Now therefore I will restore it to you."
And Gaal son of Ebed cometh and his brethren and they pass over into Shechem, and the masters of Shechem trust in him,
And Abimelech and the detachments that were with him have brought on, and stood at the door of the gate of the city, and the two detachments have brought against all that are in the field, and smite them,
And when Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron was standing before it; and said, Am I still to go with the fight against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I give it up? And Jehovah said, Go on; for to-morrow I will give him into your hand.
And they took their daughters as wives for themselves, and they gave their daughters unto their sons, and they served their gods.
and David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, "Don't ye answer, Abner?" Then Abner answered, "Who are ye that crieth unto the king?"
And the brier said unto the trees, 'If in truth thou art anointing me king over thee, then come and take refuge in my shade; if not, may fire go out from the brier and devour the cedars of Lebanon.'
Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, 'Please let us pass through your land to my place.'
And he said unto them, Follow after me: for Jehovah hath delivered thine enemies the Moabites into thy hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over.
And David prevailed over the Philistine, with a sling and a stone, and he smitten, and slew the Philistine. And as David had no sword in his hand,
Then Saul came up to the city of Amalek and set an ambush in the valley.
And again the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and Ehud, died.
Then went Samson unto Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And also the Hope of Israel shall not lie nor repent; for he is not a man, that he should repent:
Because thou didst not obey the voice of Jehovah, neither didst thou execute the fierceness of his wrath upon Amalek. Therefore hath Jehovah done unto thee what thou sufferest this day.
So I took her, cutting her into parts which I sent through all the country of the inheritance of Israel; because they have wrought folly in Israel.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Ishvi, and Malchi-shua; and these are the names of his daughters: the elder was called Merab and the younger Michal;
And if ye are not able to tell me, then ye shall give unto me thirty linen shirts, and thirty changes of garments.' And they say unto him, Put forth thy riddle, and we hear it!'
Also before they burnt the fat, the servant of the priest came, and said to the man that desired, Give me flesh to boil for the priest: for I will not take of thee boiled flesh, but raw.
Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; but shalt thou be with me in safeguard.
And when Saul heard this he was pleased with the words of Jonathan, and swore: As Jehovah lived he shall not be slain.
And as thy life shall be much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of Jehovah, and let him deliver me from all distress.
But certain vain persons said, How is this man to be our saviour? And having no respect unto him, they gave him no thereof.
Now Jonathan said unto David, Saul, my father, is intending your death: so now, take heed in the morning, and hide thyself in secret.
who will change the body of our humiliation to be conformed to the body of his glory, according to the working whereby he is able even to subject all things to himself.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you: and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you; and I have walked before thee from my youth unto this day.
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come forth unto you, and ye may do with us according to all that is good in thy sight.
And she said unto her young men, "Go on before me. Behold, I come after you." But she didn't tell her husband, Nabal.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
And he judged Israel three and twenty years: and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water for I am very thirsty; And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him to drink, and covered him.
Now therefore know and consider what ye shall do it: for evil hath been determined against our master and against all his household, and he is such a wicked man, can no man him!" reason with
Now all chastening seemeth for the moment not to be joyful but but sorrows, and but after, that it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness for them that are corrected by it.
And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
And Samson said unto them, "Let me tell you a riddle. If ye can fully declare it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find it up, I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty festival garments.
And for. who is Gideon, arose early, and all the people that were with him, and they encamped beside the fountain Harod; and he had the camp of Midian on the north by the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And she wept for it the seven days which their banquet shall be, and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her; for she hath distressed him; and she shall tell the dark saying unto the sons of her people.
And he divided the three hundred men into three bands, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, and empty pitchers, and torches within the flagons.
For behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son, and there shall no razor come upon his head; for the lad shall be a Nazirite of God from the womb; and he is about to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Gideon came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing them.
And the women answered [one another] as they played, and said, Saul smote his thousands, And David his ten thousands.
whose end destruction, whose god the belly, and glory in their shame, that mind earthly things:)
And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem and placed his weapons in his tent.
For I will be merciful unto their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
And there was honey upon the face of the field, and all the people came to the honey, the bees having gone from it;
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?
And the children of Israel departed from thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his family, and they each went out from thence to his own inheritance.
And early in the morning he arose, and went to Saul; and it was told Samuel that Saul had come to Carmel and put up for a pillar, and had gone from thence down to Gilgal.
Michal took the teraphim, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats' hair in its head, and covered it with clothes.
(And the children of Dan put up the graven image for themselves; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests for the tribe of the Danites until the day that the ark was taken prisoner.)
For many live, of whom I spake of unto you often, but now speak about even weeping, as the enemies of the cross of Christ,
So David and his men arose, and went, and put to death two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their foreskin and gave the number of them unto the king, so that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him his daughter Michal for his wife.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: thy way walk in the Lord.
And Saul rear an altar unto Jehovah, this was the first altar which he put up unto Jehovah.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done unto the man that killeth him.
And by faith he went out of Egypt, not being repenteth him by fear of the wrath of the king; for he kept on his way, as seeing him that is unseen.
and again, Behold, I and the children that God gave unto me.'
and the five princes of the Philistines have seen it, and turn back Ekron, in that day.
a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle which Jehovah set up, not man.
and he fell away, to restore them again unto repentance: because they have crucified again for themselves the Son of God and held him up to contempt.
And he said unto Zebee and Salmana: What manner of men were they whom ye slew in Thabor? And they said, They were like thee, and one of them as the son of a king.
And the light of God was yet burning, while Samuel was sleeping in the temple of Jehovah where the ark of God was,
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their borders, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land: that when they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they lodged there.
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, "Go, lie down. And it shall be, if he calleth you, that ye shall say, 'Speak, Jehovah; for thy servant hears.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And Saul said, Give your judgment between my son Jonathan and me. And Jonathan was taken.
On that day they called him for. saying, Let Baal contend with him, because he hath broken down his altar.
that he might prove Israel whether or not they would keep the way of Jehovah, to walk in it as their fathers did."
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "Stay, and I will tell you what Jehovah said unto me last night." He saith unto him, "Say on."
And when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, lo, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian, and came unto a tent, and smote it that it fell: and overthrew it, that the tent lay along.
And the people of Beth-shemesh cut their grain in the valley, and lifted up their eyes they saw the ark and were full of joy when they saw it.
and assembly of the first-born that are reckoned in heaven, and unto God the judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous persons, perfected;
And the woman said unto him, "Look, ye know what Saul did, how he cut off the them that had familiar spirits, and unto the wizards, from the land! Why art thou set a snare for my life to kill me?"
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at the other times, Samuel, Samuel! And Samuel said, Speak, for thy servant heareth.
Now the Philistines gathered together all their hosts to Aphek: and the children of Israel encamped by a fountain which is in Jezreel.
And when they were gone near Jebus the day was far gone; And the servant said unto his master, Now let us go from our way into this city of the Jebusites and take our night's rest there.
And he made a vow unto Jehovah, saying, If thou wilt deliver the children of Ammon into my hands,
considering reproach bear for the sake of Christ richer than the treasures of Egypt; for he was toward the reward.
And his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the burying-place, of Manoah his father; and he judged Israel twenty years.
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants flames of fire.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.
For by this the elders obtained a testimony.
And the citizens of Gibeah rose against me, and compassed the house for my sake, by night; they thought to kill me, and my concubine have they humbled so that she died.
For he of whom these things are said be joined to another tribe, from which no man hath officiated at the altar.
And the men of Israel numbered themselves, besides Benjamin, four hundred thousand men that drew sword, each one of these a man of war:
'Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, utter a song: Arise, Barak, and lead away thy captives, thou son of Abinoam.'
And he saith unto Jether his first-born, Arise, slay them;' and the young man hath not drawn his sword, for he was afraid, for he yet a youth.
When Samuel waxed old he appointed his sons as judges to be over Israel.
And the messengers therefore came to Gibeah of Saul: and they spake these words in the audience of the people: and all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
and if not, there came forth fire from Abimelech and devoureth the masters of Shechem and the house of Millo, And there came forth fire from the masters of Shechem and from the house of Millo, and devoureth Abimelech.'
And they said, What is it we ought to render unto him for sin? and they said,
and the people took of the spoil of the flock and herd, the first part of the devoted thing, for sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.'
For where we sin, wilfully having received the knowledge of the truth, there no longer abideth any sacrifice for sins,
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, even because we have forsaken our God, and serve the Baalim.'
And the women, answered and one another in their song, said, Saul is put to death his thousands and David his ten thousands.
And Gedeon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city Ephra. And all Israel committed fornication with it, and it became a destruction to Gedeon and to all his house.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel have gathered themselves to Mizpeh; and the princes of the Philistines go up against Israel, and the children of Israel heard and are afraid of the presence of the Philistines.
The hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because of Midian the children of Israel made themselves the caves which are in the mountains, and the caves and the strongholds.
And Gaal spake again, and said, Behold, people are coming down from the high part of the land, and one company cometh along by the way of the Magician's oak.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night, and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the wagon-defence, and his spear caught hold of the ground at his head; and Abner and the people lay round about him.
Abiathar told David that Saul had slain Yahweh's priests.
Samuel also said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
And at the end of two months she returned unto her father, that did with her as he had said in his oath: and she had not been touched by a man. So it became a rule in Israel,
And Saul went in fear of David, because Jehovah was with David and were departed from Saul.
And the woman said unto him, But ye know what Saul is done, how he hath put away out of the land them that have familiar spirits enchanters, enchantments: wherefore would you, by a trick, put me in danger of death?
The children of Benjamin did in like manner; and they took them wives for each of them from well as they that dance whom they seized, and they went and returned to their borders, and they built the cities and they dwelt in them.
(For my father fought for you, and adventured his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
And Gideon son of Joash died, in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abi-Ezrite.
and her adversity hath also provoked her greatly, so as to make her tremble: for Jehovah hath shut up her womb.
Let thy customs be without covetousness, contented with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.
They saw a man coming out of the city, and they said unto him, show us the entrance into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be nakedness; among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And Heli heard the noise of the cry, and he said unto him, What is the noise of this uproar? But he made haste, and came, and told Heli.
which a parable in regard of the day, in which both gifts and sacrifices your oblations, which cannot, in regard of conscience, to make perfect him that is serving;
Then Samuel took a bottle of oil and poured it on his head, and kissed him, and said, "Has not Jehovah anointed thee as prince over his heritage?
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were departed from me, and ye had not come at the time which they had appointed him and the Philistines had come together at Michmash;
And these are the nations whom Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, all that had not known all the Wars of Canaan;
"The trees said unto the vine, 'Come and reign over us.'
Then Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying,
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son in law.
and that a man shall find his enemy, and hath sent him away in a good manner: and Jehovah will repay thee good for that which thou didst unto me this day.
If in the fear of Jehovah thou art his servants, to obey his voice, and not going against the commandments of Jehovah, but to cleave unto Jehovah your God, ye, and the king ruled over you, then shall all be well:
but ye did well, having communication with my affliction;
"Yahweh killeth, and maketh alive. He bringeth down to Sheol, and bringeth up.
And to the angels indeed he saith, He that maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
While Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines followed hard for the battle against Israel. But Jehovah thundered against the Philistines with a great noise on that day and cast them into confusion so that they were put to the worse before Israel,
And when the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, "The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore on us, and on our god." Dagon
And indeed those of the sons of Levi that receive the priesthood have a commandment to receive a tenth from the people according to the law, that is, from their brethren, though they are descended from Abraham.
And now I have heard that thou hast shearers: now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ought there lacked unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.
The people, the ones chief Gilead, said one to another, "Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the Ammonites? He will be as head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in ever wont found as a man.
For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the heart of our infirmities: but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.
Now therefore hear the voice of thy servant, and let me give you a little bread; and take food to establish you, when ye go on your way.
and his sons have not walked in his ways, and turn aside after the unjust gain; and take a bribe, and turn aside judgment.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing the reproach.
And all the people, even men arose, and went all night, and took Saul's body and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh and burned them there.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons judges to be over Israel.
And when David was returned, after the Philistine, was slain, Abner took him, and brought him in before Saul, with the head of the Philistine, in his hand.
The Philistines also were assembled to fight against Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a multitude of people besides, as the sand on the sea-shore for number. and he went up and encamped in Michmash at the east of Beth-aven.
And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may put him to death.
But if ye cannot be declared unto me, then shall ye give me thirty shirts, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Propound thy riddle, that we may hear it.
Therefore Saul said, "Disperse yourselves among the army and say unto them, 'Bring unto me every man his ox and every man his sheep and kill them in this place, and eat, but do not sin against Jehovah by eating the beasts with the blood.'" So all the people brought them, each led forth his ox in his hand that night, and kill it there.
The prophet Gad said unto David, "Don't abide in the stronghold. Depart, go into the land of Judah." Then David departed, and came into the forest of Hereth.
And there was a young man out of Beth-lehem-judah of the family of Judah, who was of the Levites, and he tarried there.
But the host, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and again brethren appointed their array in the place where they had prepared themselves one day.
Thus Christ also did not glorify himself to become high priest, but he that said unto him, "You are my Son, This day have I begotten you,"
For if he were upon earth, he would not be a priest, (and there being the priests that are offering according to the law, the gifts,
And which of the angels hath he told at any time, "Sit at my right hand, Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet?"
And Deborah a woman is a prophet, wife of Lapidoth, she judgeth Israel at that time,
being careless of this very thing, that he who began a good work in thou shalt complete it until the day of Jesus Christ.
The princes of Succoth said, "Is the hand of Zebah and Zalmunna; in thy hand now, that we should give bread to your army?"
And this is the more clear if a second priest is come up who is like Melchizedek
And they served Jehovah all his days, and the days of the elders, that lived a long time after him, and who knew all the works of Jehovah, which he had done for Israel.
And ye have forsaken me, and serve other gods, therefore I will not save you.
At Her feet he fell: he fainted, and he died; he rolled before her feet, and he lay dumb and wretched.
And the king said unto guard, them that stood by him, Turn aside, and and put to death the priests of Jehovah, because their hand also with David, and because they know that he was fleeing and have not uncovered mine ear;' and the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to come against the priests of Jehovah.
Now it came to pass on the day when Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armour: Come, and let us go over to the garrison of the Philistines, which is on the other side of yonder place. But he told not this to his father.
And he put off his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel likewise and lay down naked all that day, and all the night; Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaimzophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite:
And all the congregation send, and speak, unto the children of Benjamin that in the rock Rimmon, and proclaim unto them peace;
And Joash said to all that stood by him, Will ye contend for Baal. Or will ye save him? he that striveth for him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning. If he be a god, let him plead for himself, because they have broken down his altar.
saying, Know ye that I will give you my blessing, and make thy numbers very great.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, "Listen to their voice, and make them a king." Samuel said unto the men of Israel, "Everyone go to your own city."
And he said unto the children of Israel, Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath said, I took Israel out of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the hand of the Egyptians and from all the kingdoms that kept you down,
Remember prisoners, as bound with it; those that are evil-treated, as being yourselves also in body.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not: but a body thou hast fitted unto me:
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
Howbeit Sisera, fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite: for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
And Gideon cometh and the hundred men that were with him, into the uttermost part of the camp, the beginning of the midst watch (the hath yet scarce confirmed the watchmen), and they blow with trumpets); craft in pieces also the flagons thereof, which in their hand;
for in their coming up out of Egypt, Israel went in the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh,
Then Samson went down to Timnah seeing that his father and his mother,) and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and a young lion came rushing out at him.
Jonathan cried after the lad, "Go fast, Hurry! Don't delay!" Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
Then said Saul unto David, Blessed be thou, O my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt yet prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
But that which beareth briers and thorns; is cast off, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be burned.
So Samuel returned with Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And when he had presented the gifts unto him, he followed his companions that came with him.
And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.
And Jehovah saved Israel that day. And the battle went over the Beth-aven.
And the whole congregation sent to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were at the ascent of Rimmon, and to proclaim peace unto them.
and Jesse took an ass laden with bread and a bottle of wine and one kid and sent them to Saul by the hand of David his son.
Then the men of the city said to Joash, "Bring out thy son, that he may die, because he hath broken down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the Asherah that was by it."
For men indeed swear by a greater one, and in every cause of theirs the oath is iniquity for confirmation.
And Ibzan came to his death and his body was put to rest at Beth-lehem.
And David said unto Jonathan, "Who will tell me if what your father answereth you is harsh?"
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Jehovah, to the glory of God the Father.
And Saul and all the children of Israel heard these words of the Philistine, were dismayed, and sore afraid.
And the tribes of Israel sent messengers to all the families of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that hath been done among you?
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died with him.
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this thing? And it was said, Samson the son-in-law of the Thamnathite, because he took away his wife, and gave her to another, hath done these things. And the Philistines went up and burnt both the woman and her father.
So Saul's uncle said unto him, "Please tell me, what went Samuel say unto you?"
And they turned aside thither, to go in, to lodge in Gibeah. And he went in, and sat down in the broad place of the city; and there was none that received him into his house to pass the night.
And Saul builded an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar he built unto Jehovah.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the men of Israel gave place to the Benjamites, because they trusted unto the liers-in-wait which they had set beside Gibeah.
whose voice shook the earth at that time, but now he hath promised, saying, "Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also heaven."
Which was a figure for the time then present, wherein were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience;
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to publish it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
But when they came up out of Egypt, then Israel walked through the wilderness as far as the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah; come down, take it up unto you.'
And when he again bringeth in the first-born into the world he saith, "Let all the angels of God worship him."
And God humbleth on that day Jabin king of Canaan before the children of Israel,
Then Samuel went to Ramah and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.
because of your contribution in the gospel from the first day until now,
The number of the days that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
And his brethren come down, and all the house of his father, and lift him up, and bring him up, and buried him between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the sepulchre of Manoah his father; and he hath judged Israel twenty years.
And he went down and communed with the woman; and she pleased Samson well.
But the children of Israel had compassion for Benjamin, their kindred, and they said, "Today one tribe is cut off from Israel.
So the Spirit of Jehovah possessed Gideon, and he blew the trumpet, and the Abiezrites were called to follow him.
And David said, Will the men of Keilah, deliver me, and my men, into the hands of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And Jephte again sent by them, and commanded them to say to the king of Ammon;
For this Melchisedec, king of Salem priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
And it was told Sisera, that Barak, the son of Abinoam, were gone up unto mount Tabor.
He will take a tenth part of thy sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
And the word of Jehovah came to Samuel, saying,
Now the asses of Kish the father of Saul rose lost, and Kish said unto Saul his son, "Please take one of the servants with thee, and stand up; go and seek the female donkeys."
Now when David had said these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this your voice, David my son? And Saul wept.
Now there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites that could set and his name was Manoah; and his wife had not given forth a child.
from henceforth waiting until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet.
And Delilah said unto Samson, "Until now thou hast mocked me and told lies unto me: Say unto me how ye can be bound." And he said unto her, "If ye weave seven locks of my head with warp-threads."
And it came to pass on that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down into the camp, for I have given it into thy hand;
For he hath spoken this about the seventh day, "God rested on the seventh day from all his works";
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, "Didn't I save thee from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
Now the Midianites, Amalekites, and all the people of the east were lying in the valley, as it were a great multitude of the locusts, and their camels were without number: as even as the sand that is on the haven of the sea.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul is done, how he hath cut off them that had familiar spirits, and unto the wizards, out of the land; and why layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
Therefore deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into the covenant of Jehovah with you; but if there be iniquity in me, kill me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me unto thy father?"
And it is yet more clear, if another priest according to the likeness of Melchizedek ariseth
Then said Saul unto David, "Here is my first-born Merab. I will give her unto you as thy wife. Only be a brave mighty man for me and fight the battles of Yahweh." For Saul thought, "My hand shall not be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him."
But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Gaddiel the son of Laish. which was of Gallim.
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
and take Yahweh's ark, and lay it on the cart. Put the jewels of gold, which thou return him for a trespass-offering, in a coffer by its side; and send it away, that it may go.
And by faith they passed the Red Sea as if on dry land; the Egyptians, when they made the attempt, were drowned.
And it was so, for he rose up early in the morning after, and pervert the wool in his hands, and bought a laver full of water out of the dew upon the wool.
And Samuel took a stone, and laid it between Mizpah and Sen: and he called the place, the Stone of help. And he said, Thus far Jehovah hath helped us.
And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is he not the son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his overseer? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem! and why should we serve him?
and Saul said, I give her unto him, and she shall be a snare and the hand of the Philistines is on him;' and Saul said unto David, By the second thou shalt become my son-in-law to-day.'
For a covenant is of force, after men are dead; otherwise it is as yet of no strength, while the testator liveth.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and give Midian into thy hand; and all the people shall go every man to his place.
Therefore don't cast away your boldness, which hath a great reward.
And Samuel said unto him, The Lord hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and give it unto a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to ten thousands of angels, to the festival gathering
The first therefore also indeed had ordinances of service, and the sanctuary, a worldly one.
And his uncle said unto him, Tell me what Samuel said unto thee.
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, "Draw thy sword and thrust me through therewith, so that these uncircumcised come not and thrust me through and make a fool of me!" But his armorbearer would not do so because he was very afraid. Therefore Saul took the sword and fell upon it.
So Samuel took a several nursing lamb and sacrificed it as a whole burnt-offering unto Jehovah. And Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him.
And Saul went to Gibeah, to his house; and with him went the men of war that had been touched of God.
And David behaved wisely in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
Are not the things which thy god Chemosh hath, he due unto thee by right? But what Jehovah our God hath obtained by conquest, shall be our possession;
But Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did ye not, ye hate me, sent me away from my father's house? Why do ye come to me now when ye are in trouble?
Saul knew David's voice, and said, "Is this thy voice, my son David?" David said, "It is my voice, my lord, O king."
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this thing that thou hast done unto us, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to fight with Midian? And they reasoned with him sharply.
Previously saying, "Sacrifices and offerings And whole burnt-offering and sacrifices for sin, ye didn't desire, neither had pleasure in them" (those which are offered according to the law),
And the princes of all the people, all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand sword-bearing infantry.
And it came to pass, when she was riding upon the ass, and was going down the valley of the mountain, David and his men were coming down to meet her, and she met them.
And she said unto her young men, Pass over before me; behold, I come after you. But she did not tell her husband Nabal.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment;
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were mighty men of valor.
And they say, Arise, and let us go up against them, for we have seen the land, and, behold, it was very good; and ye are keeping ye your peace. be not sluggard to go to go in to possess the land.
Therefore the Lord left those nations, without drive them out hastily; neither he delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
And because by God's law death cometh to men once, and after that they are judged;
So they told Saul, and he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Again Saul sent messengers a third time, and they also prophesied.
Take courage and behave like men, ye Philistines; lest thou come to be servants to the Hebrews, as they have served you: be strong, and make war.
And he took his people, separating them into three bands, and have laid wait in the field; and when he saw the people coming forth out of the city, he went up and fought against them.
Since then the children have been made partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of one piece with it, that through death he might bring to nought him that had the power of death, that is, the devil,
Then Samson went down with his father and his mother to Thamnatha. And when they were come to the vineyards of the city, behold, a young lion met him raging and a roaring lion.
(for they indeed have been made priests without an oath), but he with an oath by him that saith of him, "The Jehovah sware and will not repent: 'You are a priest for ever, according to the ordinance of Melchizedek.'"
And when the man rose up to depart, his father-in-law urged him, therefore he lodged there again.
And all the people went to Gilgal: and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed peace-offerings before Jehovah. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
And her husband arose, and went after her to speak kindly unto her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses, and she brought him into her father's house: and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And David abideth in the wilderness, in castles, and abideth in the hill-country, in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him all the days, and God hath not given him into his hand.
And the Philistine, came upon and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield was before him.
And there was none to save; because it was far from Sidon, and they had no dealings with any: It was in the valley that pertained to Beth-rehob, and they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
But if ye shall yet do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.
And Abigail arose, and made haste, and rose upon an ass, and five damsels went with her, her waiting damsels, and she followed the messengers of David, and became his wife;
And his mother's brethren spake of him to all the men of Shechem, all these words, and they inclined their hearts after Abimelech, saying, He is our brother:
Who will Repent the body of our lowness, made like to the body of his glory, according to the working whereby also he is able to subdue all things unto himself.
If one man sin against another, God will be his judge: but if a man's sin is against the Lord, who shall take up his cause? But they hearkened not unto the voice of their father; for it was the Lord's purpose to destroy them.
If your young men are asked they shall say likewise. And now let my young men have found favor in thy sight, for we are come at a good time; please give anything ye may have by thee to thy servants and to thy son David.
having been spake unto by God a chief priest, according to the ordinance of Melchisedek,
Now therefore swear unto me by Jehovah, thou shalt not cut off my seed after me, neither shalt thou destroy my name from the house of my father.'
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have set thee over Israel;
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came to the woman again when she was sitting in the field; but her husband Manoah was not with her.
The law of baptisms, and of the laying on of hands, and of the latter life of the dead, and of the judging at the last day.
Now Gideon had seventy sons that were come out of his loins, for he had many wives.
And my God will give you all ye have need of from the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah and came and said before Jonathan, "What have I done? What is my iniquity and what is my sin before your father that he is seeking to kill me?
And the Philistines said, "Who hath done this?" And they said, "Samson the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his companion." And the Philistines went up and burned her and her father with fire.
and Gaal seeth the people, and said unto Zebul, Behold, people are coming down from the top of the hills;' and Zebul said unto him, The shadow of the hills thou seest like men.'
Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode upon an ass, with five princesses of hers that followed her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife;
And by faith Enoch was interpreted, that he should not see death, and was not; for God did transfer him; for before his translation he had been testified to that he had pleased God well,
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, for he hath nine hundred chariots of iron, and he hath oppressed the children of Israel mightily twenty years.
Now therefore take and make a new cart, and two kine that have calved, whereon there shall come no yoke, bind to the cart, and shut up their calves at home;
And they took two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, they slew Oreb upon the rock of Oreb: and Zeeb they slew at the winepress of Zeeb; Yea, pursued Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.
Then one of the young men answered and said, "Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite diligent in playing; a mighty man of valor, a man of war, prudent in speech, and the goodly man, and Jehovah is with him."
And they spake unto him, saying, No; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand: but surely we will not kill thee. And they bound him in two new cords, and brought him up from the rock.
If one man shall sin against another, God may be appeased in his behalf: but if a man shall sin against the Lord, who shall pray for him? And they obeyed not the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
In that day Debbora and Barac son of Abinoem sung, and said,
And the old man went out unto them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not so wickedly; because this man is come into my dwelling, and cease I pray thee from this folly.
But six hundred men, turning back, fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness, and were of the rock of Rimmon for four, months.
And Israel was humbled exceedingly in the sight of Madian.
So the woman said, "Whom shall I bring up for you?" And he said, "Bring up Samuel for me."
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpah and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, "Yahweh helped us until now."
and Christ, as a Son over his house, whose house are we, if the boldness and the rejoicing of the hope unto the end we hold fast.
Speak unto all the men of Shechem? whether is expedient for you that seventy men all the sons of Jerobaal should rule over you, or that one man should rule over you? And withal consider that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And they said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: make us a king, to judge us, as all the nations have.
king's entry without,
God also testifying with them, both by signs and wonders, by divers works of power and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
They shall salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which ye shall receive out of their hand.
Now Eli was ninety-eight years old, and his eyes were fastened so that he could not see.
if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
But they forgat Jehovah their God, so he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the hosts of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, "Leave us alone seven days so that we may send messengers in all the border of Israel, and if there is none that can deliver for us, then we will come out to you."
that is faithful to him that hath made him, as Moses also in all his house.
therefore I said, 'Now the Philistines shall come down upon me to Gilgal, and I haven't entreated the favor of Yahweh.' I forced myself therefore, and offered the burnt offering."
But a certain writer hath given his witness, saying, What is man, that thou takest knowledge of him? what is the son of man, that thou visitest him?
who will fashion our humble body to be conformed to his glorious body, according to the power that will make him even to subject all things to himself.
And when the flame went up to heaven from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, while Manoah and his wife were looking on; and they fell upon their faces to the earth.
And Achish said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad; why went ye bring him to me?
And Saul said unto him, whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.
For Jehovah chastiseth the one of his bosom, and punishes every son whom he accepts."
And that year they wronged and oppressed the children of Israel: eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And Judah took Gaza, its their encampments and Ashkelon and Ekron with their confines.
and say, Why, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath this been in Israel to be lacking this day, from Israel, one tribe?'
They asked, "Which one is there from the tribes of Israel that came not up unto Jehovah at Mizpah?" And behold, none came from Jabesh-gilead, unto the camp to the assembly.
And it was known unto David that Saul had dealt craftily with him, and he said to Abiathar the priest, Come here with the ephod.
But the Amorites would dwell in mount Heres in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim: yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became subject to taskwork.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass-offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not taken away from you.
Who chased and put him to flight, and drove him to the city; and many were slain of his people, even unto the gate of the city:
that is, not made by a law according to the flesh, but through the power of a life without end;
If then he were upon earth, he would not be a priest: seeing that there should be others to offer gifts according to the law,
Let us therefore fear, lest by any means, a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of ye should seem to fall short of it.
And the men do so, and take two sucking cows and bind them in the cart, and their young ones they have shut up in the house;
Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds To hear the bleating of the sheep? In the courses of Reuben there were great deliberations of heart.
But he, offered a sacrifice for sins, sat down in perpetuity on the right hand of God,
and kindleth fire in the torches; and sent out into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burneth from heap even unto standing grain, even unto vineyard, which is oliveyard.
And again, when he brought the firstbegotten into the world, he said, And let all the angels of God worship him.
And through the land of Salisa, and had not found them, they passed also through the land of to Salim, and they were not there: and through the land a Benjamite, and found them not.
I will not again drive out any man from before them from the nations that Joshua left when he died,
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent some of the goods to the elders of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Here is an offering for you from the spoil of them that were fighting against Jehovah;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, "If ye keep me, I will not eat your food, but if thou preparest a burnt-offering unto Jehovah for thou canst offer it (for Manoah knew not that he was an angel of Yahweh)."
And David said to Saul, Why dost thou hear the words of man, saying, Behold, David seeketh thine evil?
Therefore receiving an immoveable kingdom, we have grace; whereby let us serve, pleasing God, with fear and gravity.
And of the Levites, Ahijah the son of Ahitub, brother to Ichabod the son of Phinehas, the son of Heli the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, had worn the ephod. And the people knew not whither Jonathan was gone.
In those days was there no king in Israel; every man did that which was right in his own eyes;
Samuel said, "What hast thou done?" Saul said, "Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that ye didn't come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines assembled themselves together at Michmash;
Her wise women gave answer unto her, Yea, she made answer again to herself,
Then I will send word unto my servant, 'Go, find the arrows!' If I clearly say unto the lad, 'Look, the arrows are on this side of you; bring it,' then come, for it means peace for you. And there is no problem, as Jehovah liveth:
So she wept before him the seven days of the marriage feast: and at length on the seventh day as she was trouble unto him, he expounded it. And she straightway told her brethren.
Manasseh also did not destroy Beth-shan, and Taanach with its suburbs, with their villages, nor the inhabitants of Dor, and Jeblaam, and Megiddo with their villages. And the Canaanites would dwell with them.
And Samuel said, Why askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath departed from thee, and is gone over to thy rival:
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spake upon earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh out of heaven:
Now there was a certain man in the wilderness of Maon, and all his substance were in Carmel, and the man was very great: and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and it came to pass, that he was fleece his sheep in Carmel.
So David was hid in the field, and the new moon came, and the king sat down to eat bread.
And the five princes of the Philistines saw, and they returned to Ekron the same day.
And forgive the iniquity of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make for my lord a faithful house, because my lord fightest the battles of Jehovah; let not evil therefore be found in thee all the days of thy life.
And David went whithersoever Saul sent him, and did wisely: and Saul put him at the head of his men of war, and it pleased all the people as well as to Saul's servants.
but if ye can't declare it unto me, then thou shalt give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing." They say unto him, "Tell us your riddle, that we may hear it."
For every high priest is made for the oblation both of gifts and sacrifices; whence it is needful that this also should have somewhat which he may offer.
I also have lent him to Jehovah. And as long as he liveth he is lent to Yahweh." Then they worshipped Jehovah there.
And David inquired of Jehovah, yet again. Jehovah answered him, and said, "Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand."
Now faith is assurance of things hoped for, proof of things not seen.
again he ordains a certain day, this day, speaking in David after so long time, even as had been said before, "Today, if ye hear his voice, do not harden thy hearts."
And he left them under the eyes of the king of Moab, and they abode with him all the days that David was in the stronghold.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, beside the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
They shall perish, but thou continue, And they all shall wax old like a garment doeth:
So Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, "Bring him up to me in the bed, and I will kill him."
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, "What shall we do with Yahweh's ark? Show us how we should send it to its place."
And he said, "You took away my gods that I had made, and the priest, and then thou go away. What is now left for me? How canst thou say unto me, 'What is the matter?'"
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the young bullock, which thy father's hath even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah, that is by it;
Delilah perceived that he had trusted in her, and she sent and called the rulers of the Philistines, saying, "Come up one more time, for he hath trusted in me." And the rulers of the Philistines came up, and they brought the money with them.
God do so do unto the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that he hath until the light of the morning, one of them that sat on the wall.'
Aren't they all serving spirits, sent out for ministering for the sake of them that shall inherit salvation?
Now the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Heli, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days, there was no manifest vision.
Then the children of Israel went away from thence, every man to his tribe and his family, every man went down to his inheritance.
Deborah said unto Barak, "Go; for this is the day in which Jehovah hath delivered Sisera, into your hand. Hasn't Jehovah gone out before you?" So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
And they said, "Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah."
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, "By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into your hand. Let all the people departed every one to his own place."
For then he ought to have suffered often from the beginning of the world: but now once at the end of ever, he hath appeared for the destruction of sin, by the sacrifice of himself.
But when the prince died they relapsed and dealt yourselves, more than their fathers, following other gods, serving them, and bending unto them; and they would not give up their works or their stubborn ways.
and the people serve Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, that saw all the great work of Jehovah which he had wrought for Israel.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon, the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
which we have like an anchor of the soul, both firm and stedfast, and entered into the inside of the curtain,
Now therefore know and consider what thou doest. for there was evil determined against our lord, and against all his house, and he too much a son of vanity to be spoken to.'
And he said unto her, "What doth he look like?" And she said, "An old man cometh up; He is covered with a robe." Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
And the mother of Sisera, looked out at the window, and cried through the lattice; Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarry the wheels of his chariots?
And David came to the two hundred men, who being weary had stayed, and could not follow David, and he had commanded them to abide at the brook Besor: and they came out to meet David, and the people that were with him. And David coming to the people saluted them peaceably.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man to his place.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achish.
And the children of Dan sent five mighty men of their stock and family from Zorah, and Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to spy out it diligently; and they said unto them, Go, view the land. And they went on the way, and when they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, they went into the house of Michas, and rested there:
And they took their bones, and buried them under the tamarisk at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
And Saul laid his hand upon the Amalekite from Havilah in the way unto Shur that is before Egypt.
And God clave the hallow rock which was in a troop, and water came out of it. And he drank, and his spirit returned, and he revived: therefore the name of it was called En-hakkore, which is in Lehi unto this day.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until evening and inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Should we again draw near from the battle against the children of Benjamin, our relatives?" And Jehovah said, "Go up against them."
Then the chief men went down to the thresholds; the Lord's people went down among the strong ones.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
and she called the child Ichabod, saying, "The glory is departed from Israel"; because God's ark was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
I thought thou hadst hated her, and therefore I gave her unto thy neighbor, but she hath a sister, who is younger and fairer than she, take her to wife instead of her.
And after him came Shamgar, the son of Beth-anath, who put to death six hundred Philistines with an ox-stick; and he was another saviour of Israel.
being able to exercise forbearance toward the ignorant and erring, seeing he himself also is clothed with infirmity;
and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent it as one rends a kid, and nothing was in his hand. And he did not tell his father or his mother, what he had done.
And one of the people answered and said, Thy father hath bound the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that shall eat bread this day. And the people were faint.)
and have tasted the good saying of God, the powers also of the coming age,
He hath come unto Lehi and the Philistines have shouted as he met him, and the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth over him, and the wreathen chains which on his arms are as flax which they burn with fire, and his bands are wasted from off his hands,
Moreover the Hebrews that had been with the Philistines yesterday and the day before, and went up with them into the camp, returned to be with the children of Israel, that were with Saul and Jonathan;
Wherefore the sin of the young men was exceeding great before Jehovah: because they withdrew men from the sacrifice of Jehovah.
Jehovah hearkened of Hannah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters, while the young man Samuel grew up with Jehovah.
Then him that is left of the nobles He caused to rule the people of Jehovah, And he caused me to rule among the mighty.
And the Philistines are afraid, for they said, God hath come in unto the camp;' and they say, Woe unto us! for there hath not been as this heretofore.
Lest there be any fornicator, nor profane person, as Esau, that for one in my sight, his birthright.
And the Philistines were tamed, and came no more into the border of Israel; and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
But the lad knew not anything; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
We have an altar, whereof they have no power to eat that serve the tabernacle.
For he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
and Jehovah be with Judah, and he filleth the hill-country, but not to drive out the inhabitants of the valley, for they have chariots of iron,
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than God, for the travail of death, crowned with glory, and majesty: that, through the grace of God, he might taste death for all.
and Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem; unto his mother's brethren, and spake unto them, and unto all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, army against host.
For if Jesus had brought them into rest, he would not have spoken afterward about another day.
Now David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him: he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines came to their own place.
And they sent messengers to the children of Benjamin, that were in the rock Rimmon, and commanded them to receive them in peace.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
For it is impossible concerning them that once been radiant; And have tasted the heavenly gift, and become partakers of the Holy Spirit,
Therefore Yahweh's anger was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan Rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Cushan Rishathaim eight years.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, Hittites, and Amorites, and Perizzite, and Hivite, and Jebusite):
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for the sake of his great name, because Jehovah hath determined to make thee his own people.
And when he was come, Heli sat upon a stool over against the way of an almond-tree. For his heart was terrible for the ark of God. And when the man was come into the city, he told it: and all the city cried out.
And when Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed his wrath was kindled.
And David said unto his heart, Now am I consumed one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing for me better than that I diligently escape unto the land of the Philistines, and Saul was despairing of me, of seeking me any more in all the border of Israel, and I have escaped out of his hand.'
having a golden altar of incense, and the ark of the covenant overlaid on every side of with gold, in which was a golden pot holding the manna, Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And the boil took up the shoulder, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, what is left, set it before thee, and eat, because it was kept of purpose for thee, when I invited the people. And Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
And David said unto Saul, "Who am I, and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?"
So Sisera, gathered all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles even unto the river Kishon;
Woe unto us: for there was no such great joy in time past; Woe unto us. Who shall deliver us from the hand of these high gods? these are the gods that smote Egypt with all the plagues in the desert.
So David again inquired of Jehovah, and Jehovah answered him and said, "Get up, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into thy hand."
And they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about to Gath, And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about it.
So the priest delivered him showbread; for there was no bread there but the showbread that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices; therefore it was needful for this one also to have somewhat that he offers.
And David said to Ahimelech, And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought forth my sword nor my weapons with me, for the king's business was urgent.
called by God a high priest according to my love
Then Jonathan called David, and Jonathan declared unto him all these things. Now Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as beforetime.
And Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
and fell down at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, me let the iniquity be; but let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her learn prudence;
Yea, if in truth and in sincerity ye have dealt with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech, and he shall rejoice, and even he in thee;
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye take me back to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah deliver them up before me, shall I be your head?
Wherefore when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him.
And when Dalila had done this, she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And being roused out of his sleep he drew out the nail with the hair and the lace.
And those men that were not overtake by death were cruelly diseased: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
The Hebrews that had been for the Philistines in time past; that went up with them into the camp round about, even they joined the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan;
But he answered thus, Behold, thou shalt conceive and bear a son: beware thou drink no wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; for the child shall be a Nazirite of God from his a babe from his mother's womb until the day of his death.
And Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah to the people that asked of him a king.
And the messengers came in, behold, the teraphim was in the bed, with the pillow of goats' hair in its head.
And when he had been made entire, he began to the giver of eternal salvation unto all them that are under his commandments;
And Saul came to the city of Amalek, and stood in the valley secretly.
And she arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a handmaid to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
The Lord sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, The Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath said, I brought thee up out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;
Now when Saul had taken his place as ruler of Israel, he made war on them that were against him on every side, Moab and the children of Ammon, and Edom and the kings of Zobah and the Philistines; and which way he went, he prevailed against them.
But a certain woman sent a great stone, such as is used cast down grain, on to the head of Abimelech, crackling the bone.
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that saith, Saul shall reign over us! give ye up the men, and we put them to death.'
See that ye hearken unto his voice which cometh unto you: for except those whose ears were shut to the voice which came to them on earth did not go free from visitation, what chance have we of going free if we shalt not hearken unto him whose voice cometh out of heaven?
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child serveth a father, so he served with me in furtherance of the gospel.
And Samuel heareth all the words of the people, and spake them in the ears of Jehovah;
David was greatly grieved: and for the people spake of stoneth him, because the souls of all the people were grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
By faith, Abel offered unto God a most excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he had testimony given to him that he was righteous, God testifying with respect unto his gifts; and through it he, being dead, yet speaketh.
Then she said unto her father, Only do this for me: Let me have two months to depart into the mountains with my friends, weeping for my sad latter end.
And when they of Ashdod, arose early on the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon, and set it in its place again.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. And they rose up, and went away that night.
For every house is built by in a man, but he that built all things is God.
Then after a time he returned to take her; and turn aside out of the way to see the dead body of the lion, he saw a heap of bees in the body of the lion, and honey there.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a several flea.
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
for a covenant over dead sacrifices stedfast, since it is no force at all when the covenant-victim liveth,
In like manner do ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
So the king sent to call Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, the priest, and all his father's household, the priests that were at Nob: So all of them came to the king.
that from year to year the daughters of Israel go to keep the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.
saying, "Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply you."
And Saul inquired of Jehovah, pursue after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not that day.
And when the lad had gone, David came from his secret place by the hill, and he fell upon the earth went down upon his face thrice: and they gave one another a kiss, weeping together, till David's grief was greatest.
Let thy desire be for peace with all men, and to be hallowed, without which no man may see the Lord;
And when the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, (for the people were distressed,) then the people did hide themselves in the caves and in thickets, and in rocks, and in the high places, and in destructions.
Unto this day no priest of Dagon, or any that come into Dagon's house, will put his foot upon the threshold of the house of Dagon in in Ashdod, did
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and the towns thereof, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are along the side of the Arnon, three hundred yearswhy did ye not recover within that time?
let us approach with a perfect heart, in full assurance of faith, sprinkled as to our heart from a wicked conscience, and washed as unto our body with pure water.
And he said unto them, `Pursue after me, for Jehovah hath given your enemies, the Moabites, into your hand;' and they go down after him, and took the passages of the Jordan toward Moab, and have not lawful a man to pass over.
And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
Then said Saul unto his servant, Ye have said well; come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was.
Zebulun drove not out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became subject to taskwork.
But the Lord said unto him, Peace be with thee; fear not: ye are in no danger of death.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh. for Jehovah gave to Samuel in Shiloh the revelation of his word.
But this man oblation was one sacrifice for sins, for ever sitteth on the right hand of God,
Howbeit we may not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
And the Philistine, drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
And he said, What is the word which he hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me; so doth God do unto thee, and so will he also, if thou hidest from me a word of all the words which he had spoken unto thee.'
And he took his staff in his hand, and gained other five smooth stones from the bed of the brook and put them in a bag such as is used by sheep-keepers; and in his hand was a leathern girdle used for sending stones; and so he went by the way of the Philistine.
Abide with me! Be not afraid, because he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life. Thou art in good care with me."
And inclosed a young man of the men of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he described unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.
a wall they have been unto us both night and day, all the days of our being with them, feeding the flock.
And they passed from thence to the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And the men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were mighty men of valor.
Endure it for correction: God is have dealt with you as sons. For what son is there whom a father doth not discipline?
But congealed food is for the mature, that because of practise have trained their faculties for the discernings of both good and evil.
Therefore also I have lent him unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth he shall be lent to Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah there.
And Saul took three thousand men, chosen out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats;
And the men that didn't die were smote with the tumors; and the cry of the city went up unto heaven.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the land, until thou come to Gaza, and they left no sustenance in Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
And Judah went forward, against the Canaanite, that dwelt in Hebron (the name whereof was in former time Cariath-Arbe) slew Sesai, and Ahiman, and Tholmai:
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's youngest brother, took it; so he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And they said unto him, We have come down to take you and give thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Give me thine oath that thou wilt not lay siege against me yourselves.
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house, and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
When Gaal saw the host, he said unto Zebul, "Look, people are coming down from the top of the mountains!" And Zebul said unto him, "The shadows of the mountains look like people to you."
Remember thy princes, who have spoken unto you the word of God; and considering the issue of their manner of life, imitate their faith.
And deliver them that for fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
if ye then have dealt truly and sincerely with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in thee;
On the third day thou shalt go down quickly and go to the place where thou didst hide thyself in the day all this rose and remain beside the stone Ezel.
and let us consider one another for provoke me to love and good works;
And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
I will pursue, toward goal, for the righteous, the calling on high of God in Christ Jesus.
This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And because of this, he is a mediator of a new covenant; to the intent that, because a death hath taken place for the redemption of transgressions committed in the first covenant, them that are the called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance.
But I have faith in the Lord that I myself will come before long.
And they said unto the messengers that came: Thus shall ye say to the men of Jabesh Gilead, To-morrow, when the sun shall be hot, ye shall have rest. And the messengers therefore came, and told the men of Jabes: and they were glad.
And when the day came for Elkanah to make his oblation, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all his sons and his daughters their part of the feast:
And David said unto the men near him, What shall be done unto the man that overcometh this Philistine, and taketh away the shame from Israel? for who is this Philistine, a man uncircumcised, that he hath profaned the hosts of the living God?
And when I saw this, I put my life in mine own hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hands. What have I recompense, that ye should rise up to fight against me?
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with the lives of thy household.
By faith, he dwelt as a sojourner in the land of promise, as in a land that is not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac, and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise.
For we are the circumcision, that in spirit serve God; and glory in Christ Jesus, not having confidence in the flesh.
These are the golden emerods, which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering to Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Gaza one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
And thou shalt make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land. ye shall break down their altars.' But ye have not hearkened unto my voice. Why have ye done this?
For to which of the angels hath he said at any time, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be his Father, and he shall be my Son?
And the children of Israel didn't remember Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side;
Now Hannah spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard; and Eli thought she was drunken.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
the five rulers of the Philistines, all the Canaanite, the Sidonians, and the Hivite, living upon mount Lebanon, from mount Baal Hermon unto Lebo-Hamath.
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: I have taken all that Amalek did unto Israel; I how he will cut them in the way when they came up out of Egypt.
And he gathered together his nine hundred chariots, armed with scythes, and all his army from Haroseth of the Gentiles to the brook Cison.
And he said, `Go;' and he sent her away two months, and she she went with her friends, and she wept for her virginity on the hills;
Now if he were upon earth, he would not even be a priest (for there are they that offer the gifts according to the law,
And the king said, Make search and see whose son this young man is.
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare a son, and he called his name Abimelech;
And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mightest be bound.
holding a vessel of gold in it for burned incense, and the ark of the covenant, which was covered with gold and which had in it a pot made of gold for the manna, and Aaron's rod which put forth its bud, and the stones, according to the writing of the covenant;
and not by the blood of goats, and bullocks, but by his own blood, he entered once for all into the most holy place, obtaining eternal redemption.
And he smote them thigh and thigh with a great slaughter: so he went down and dwelt in the cave in Etam's rock.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah because of the Midianites,
For our God is a devouring fire.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah went and I go to sojourn where I shall find [a place].
and said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah: Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon.
And after him Abdon the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, judged Israel.
And Saul said unto his servant, Thy word good; come, we go;' and they go unto the city where the man of God was.
And at the time of her death, when the women that are standing by her say, Fear not, for a son thou hast borne,' she hath not answered, nor set her heart [to it];
Who being sent away, went into the land of Hethim, and built there a city, and called it Luz, which is so called unto this day.
Thou wilt cry out in that day because of thy king whom thou shalt have chosen for yourselves: and Jehovah will not answer thee in that day."
David said, "Yahweh who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine." Saul said unto David, "Go! Jehovah will be with you."
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Ebenezer unto in Ashdod, did
And Samson's wife wept before him, and she said, "You must hate me; ye do not love me; Thou told the dark saying to my people, but ye have not been declared it to me." And he said unto her, "I have not been declared it to my father, and mother. why should I declare it to you?"
if by any means I may attain unto the resurrection which is from the dead.
Now Jonathan spake good of David to Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee; for also what he did was very expedient to thee;
And the destroyers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way, that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Shual:
The six hundred men armed with their weapons of war, that were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate:
for [it is] impossible for them once enlightened, having tasted also of the heavenly gift, and partakers having became of the Holy Spirit,
Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, recovered strength from weakness, became valiant in battle, put to flight the hosts of foreigners:
And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
And Samuel turned about to go away; but he laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
Then Achis gave him Ziklag, that day; For which cause Ziklag, belongeth to the kings of Judah unto this day.
for them in Racal, for them in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, for them in the cities of the Kenite,
And when the people saw him, and praise their god, for they said, Our god hath given in our hand our enemy, and he that is laid waste our land, and that multiplied our wounded.'
And they abide till confounded, and lo, he is not opened the doors of the upper chamber, and they take the key, and open, and behold, their lord is fallen to the earth, dead.
And they turned and went and put the little children, the cattle, and the precious substance in front of them.
And they gathered together to Mizpeh, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpah.
There was a young man out of Beth-lehem Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levites) and he dwelt there.
Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was want of all that pertaineth unto him: and he hath recompensed me evil for good.
But Saul said, "No one shall be put to death on this day, for to-day Jehovah hath provided deliverance in Israel."
And the house of Joseph sent to descry Beth-el. (Now the name of the city beforetime was Luz.)
And he brought the gift to Eglon; king of Moab; now Eglon, was a very fat man.
Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him.
And the princes of the Philistines came out, and it came to pass from the time of their coming out to battle, that David hath committed more wisely than any of the servants of Saul, and his name is great price.
And he saith unto the men of Succoth, give, I pray you, cakes of bread to the people that at my feet, for they wearied, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna; kings of Midian.'
these shall perish, and thou wilt remain, and all, as a garment; shall become old,
And the angel answered and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And it came to pass, when he had done speaking, that, he cast away the jaw through out of his hand, and called that place Ramath-Lehi.
And he took up his estate, and with a loud voice said unto the camp of Israel, saying, Why have ye come out to make war? Am I not a Philistine, and ye servants of Saul? Send out a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
And now Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath drove out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it?
And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day, to fight against me?
They shall perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment;
Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of Amalek.
Now therefore let my sin and go back with me to worship Jehovah.
But David said unto them, "You should not do so, my brethren, and what Jehovah hath given unto us! He hath preserved us and hath given the bands band, that came unto us into our hand.
And when Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah said unto him, Behold, the man, of whom I spake unto thee, this man shall reign over my people.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I will render vengeance to Amalek for what he did to Israel, fighting against him in the way, when Israel came forth out of Egypt.
And it came to pass about a month after this, that Nahash, Ammonite came up, and began to fight against Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
Hannah answered, "No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have not been drinking wine nor strong drink, but I poured out my soul before Jehovah.
Therefore Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines came to their own place.
And as she was riding upon the ass, and coming down by the covert of the ascent, behold, David and his men came down over against her; and she met them.
Therefore I send him with special urgency, that when ye see him again ye may rejoice, and I may be less ye of doubtful mind.
And David's servants came to Abigal to Carmel, and spake unto her, saying, David hath sent us unto thee, to take thee to be his wife.
For he that hath entered into his rest hath himself also had rest from his works, that God had done from his.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee, and will Jehovah avenge me of you; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Is not this David about whom they sing in the dances, saying, 'Saul hath killed his thousands, but David his ten thousands'?"
And Eli blessed Elkanah, and his wife, and said, Jehovah will appoint thee seed of this woman, for the petition which she asked for Jehovah;' and they are gone to their place.
and when men arose early the next morning, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah: and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold. only the fish-stump was left unto him.
And the Spirit of Jehovah prospereth upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote of them thirty men, and took their armor, and giveth the changes to them declaring the riddle; and his anger was kindled; and he went up to the house of his father;
But these men have been very good unto us; they did us no wrong, and nothing of ours was touched while we were with them in the field.
And when Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days; saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
And there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste to come, for the Philistines have poured in themselves upon the land.
And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will commune with my father of thee; and what I see that I will tell thee.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armourbearer.
because when they came up out of Egypt, Israel went into the wilderness to the Red Sea and went to Kadesh.
who, through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought out righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions,
"This time to-morrow I will send unto you a man from the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him as prince over my people Israel; and he will deliver my people out of the hand of the Philistines. For I have seen the suffering of my people, because their cry is come to me."
These all, having had testimony given to them through their faith, didn't receive the promise,
Beware brethren, lest there should be among some of you an evil, unbelieving heart, that ye fall away from the living God.
And the trees said unto the vine, 'You, come rule over us.'
and say unto him, Behold, thou art old and thy sons have not walked in thy ways; now, appoint unto us a king, to judge us, as all the nations.'
And Heli blessed Elkanah and his wife: and he said unto him, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman, for the lend thou shalt lend unto Jehovah. And they went to their own home.
And when Saul was told, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied. Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they also prophesied.
The villages ceased in Israel, My kinsfolk until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.
and the more part of the brethren in the Lord, having confidence through my bonds, are more abundantly bold even fearlessly to speak the word.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do with the ark of the Lord? tell us how we are to send it back to its place? And they said,
And she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson! And he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at the other times before, and disengage myself. And he knew not that Jehovah had departed from him.
And so it was, that they were slain on this side by the enemies, and there was no rest of their men dying. They fell and were beaten down on the east side of the city Gibea;
Out of Ephraim they came down into the valley; after you, Benjamin, among thy tribesmen; from Machir came down the captains, and from Zebulun those in whose hand is the ruler's rod.
David dwelt with Achish in Gath, he and his men, every man with his household. David took along his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us come near unto one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah:
Then Eli called Samuel, and said, "Samuel, my son!" And he said, "Here I am."
And they said, Thou hast not advantage of us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
The former insincerely preach Christ from faction are, supposing that they add affliction to my chains;
and Jesse took an ass, bread, and a bottle of wine, and one he-goat, and sent by the hand of David his son unto Saul.
And Christ being come, chief priest of the coming good things, through the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hands, that is, not of this creation even
and I have all things, and abound; I am filled, they received of Epaphroditus the things from you an odor of a sweet savor for a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing unto God:
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lioness, and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my riddle.
For men at all times swear by what is greater; and any controversy is made an end of by the judgment of the oath.
And is gone once for ever into the holy place, having received eternal salvation, not through the blood of goats, and young bullocks, but through his blood.
And Jehovah called Samuel again. And Samuel arose and went to Heli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he answered, I did not call thee, my son: return and sleep.
For the law constitutes men high priests, having infirmity; But the word of swearing of the oath which after the law, a Son perfected for ever.
Then the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistines and plundered their camp.
And she sent for Barak, the son of Abinoam, from Kedesh-naphtali, and said unto him, Knowest not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded saying, Go, and buy your force into line in mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
And Eliab, his eldest brother's heareth when he spake unto the men, and the anger of Eliab was kindled against David; and he said, Wherefore wilt thou hast come down. and to whom hast thou left them few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy, and the evil of thy heart for to see the battle thou hast come down.'
And she brought it before Saul and his servants, and they did eat. And they arose, and went away that very night.
But Samuel ministered before the face of the Lord: being a child girded with a linen ephod.
having a golden censer; and the ark of the covenant overlaid all that are round about with gold, wherein the golden pot having the manna, and the rod of Aaron that budded, and the tables of the covenant.
So Saul died, and his three sons, his armorbearer, and all his men together that same day.
And the men of Israel have turned back unto the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword out of the city, even the men unto cattle, unto all that is found; also all the cities which are found they have sent into fire.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot unto God, consume thy conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
Nevertheless Saul didn't say aught that day, for he said, "Something hath befallen him. He is not clean. Surely he is not clean."
When thou goest, thou shalt come to an careless Ethiopians people, and the land is large; for God hath given it into thy hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth."
And by faith we understand that the world was framed by the word of God; that from invisible things appear things might be made.
The charge was two-thirds of a shekel for the plowshare and for the mattock, and the third part of a shekel for the pick and for the iron, and to set the goading staves.
And the king said unto Doeg, "Turn and smite the priests!" endureth chiefs turned, and he smote the priests, and he slew on that day fourscore and five people that had worn a linen ephod.
All through the life of Saul there was bitter war against the Philistines; and when Saul saw any strong man or any good fighting man, he kept him near himself.
And Barak called Zebulun and the land to Kedesh, and he went up at his feet ten thousand men and Deborah went up with him.
of the teaching of baptisms, of laying on of hands, of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
So the servants of David came to Abigal at Carmel, and they spake unto her, saying, "David hath sent us unto you to take you for his wife."
And all those that fell away, of Benjamin are twenty and five thousand men that drew sword, that day of the whole of these men of valor;
Jehovah sent for. Bedan, Jephthah, and Shemuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side; and ye dwelt in safety.
And the young man Samuel waxed stronger and greater; and good both with Jehovah, and also with men.
Therefore, since we receive an unshakable kingdom, let us be give thanks, through which let us serve God acceptably, with awe and gravity.
Then Achish said unto his servants, "Look, ye see the man is insane. wherefore then hast thou brought him unto me?
And one of the servants answered and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Beth-lehemite a skilful player, and one of great strength, and a man of war, and prudent in his words, and a comely one: and Jehovah is with him.
and the people make unto the spoil, and take sheep and oxen, and sons of the herd, and kill upon the earth; and the people eat with the blood.
For every one that is a partaker of milk, is unskillful in the word of righteousness; for he is a little child.
For this man was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by so much as he that hath built the house, hath greater honor than the house.
All the children of Israel went out, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, and they gathered themselves together as one body unto Jehovah at Mizpah.
and Jesse said unto David his son: Take for thy brethren an ephah of parched grain, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren.
For, did solemnly against them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
(For my father made war for you, and put his life in peril, and redeemed thee out of the hand of Midian:
For they came up continually with their oxen and their tents. they came like the locusts in number; they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land for its destruction.
looking unto Jesus, the Prince and perfecter of faith, that for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despiseth its shame, and hath sat down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And take these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren are and come back with a sign unto say how they are.
And she arose, and bowed herself with her face to the earth, and said, "Behold, thy servant is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord."
And by the law almost all things are cleansed with blood, and without blood there is no forgiven.
and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thy arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
Then said Saul unto Michal, It was Why hast thou beguiled me so, and let my enemy go and flee away? And Michal answered Saul: Because he said unto me, Let me go, or else I will kill thee.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even; and they asked of Jehovah, saying, "Shall I again draw nigh to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother?" Jehovah said, "Go up against him."
And they put his armor in the house of the Ashtaroth, and fastened his body to the wall of and Shan.
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my portion: therefore that we may make war against the Canaanites; and I will then go with you into your inheritance. So Simeon went with him.
And shall I take my bread, and my water, and my flesh which I have killed for my sheep-shearers; and give to men whom I know not whence they are?
This thing isn't good that thou hast done. As Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept watch over your lord, Yahweh's anointed. Now see where the king's spear is, and the pitcher of water that was at his head."
As Anna had her heart mourned: she prayed unto Jehovah, shedding many tears;
And Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the citizens of Shechem put confidence in him.
And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah: and Zebul thrust out Gaal and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
For they that say such things declare it that they seek a country of their own.
And he had two wives, one named Hannah and the other Peninnah: and Peninnah was the mother of children, but Hannah had no children.
His son-in-law would not consent unto his words, but straightway went forward and came over against the Jebusite (the same by another name is called Jerusalem, led with him two asses laden, and his concubine:
And he stood, and cried unto the hosts of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set thy battle in My dove, am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me.
And I trust in Jehovah, that I myself also shall come unto thee shortly;
And Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
and forsake Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and go after other gods who were of the gods of the peoples that are round about them captive; and worshipped them, and provoke Jehovah,
and David arose, and came to the place where Saul hath encamped, and David saw the place where Saul hath lieth hard upon me, and Abner the son of Ner, captain of his host, and Saul is lying in the path, and the people are that encamp round about him.
When thou hast departed from me this day, that ye shall find two men by Rachel's tomb, on the border of Benjamin at Zelzah. They shall say unto you, 'The asses which ye went to look for have been found; and behold, your father hath stopped cared about the asses, and is careful for you, saying, "What shall I do for my son?"'
And the sons of Eli were evil, and worthless men, having no knowledge of Jehovah.
I also, far be it from me to sin against Jehovah, by ceasing to pray for you, and I will teach you in the good and upright way;
Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and killed the people therein; he beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
If they said thus unto us, 'Wait until we come to you!' then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
The man Micah had for himself an Asherah, and he made an ephod, and teraphim, and he appointed one of his sons that became a priest for him.
Now the day came, and Elkanah burned incense, and gave to Phenenna his wife, and to all his sons and his daughters portions,
but concerning the Son, "Your throne, O God, is for ever and ever, and the sceptre of righteous is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, "Our god hath delivered our enemy and the destroyer of our country, that hath slain many of us, into our hand."
As he saith also in another place, "You are a priest for ever, after the order of Melchizedek."
The Holy Spirit this signifying, that the way into the holy place of all was not yet made manifest, While as the first tabernacle was yet standing:
Be strong, O Philistines, be men! Do not be servants to the Hebrews as they have been unto you: go to fight without fear.
And Achish gave him Ziklag, that day: wherefore Ziklag, belongeth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
And he smote the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter.
Saul asked counsel of God, "Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?" But he didn't answer him that day.
Then she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? these three times hast thou mocked me, and hast not told me in what is thy great strength.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thy strength and the strength of thy father's house, so that no man in thy house shall live unto old age.
For in one meal-offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.
And David delivereth all that the Amalekite have taken; also his two wives hath David delivered.
And he will make them captains of thousands and of fifties; some he will put to work plowing and cut his grain and making his weapon and building his chariots.
But Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them: but everything that was vile and refuse to let them go, that they destroyed utterly.
And he said, I have sinned; now, honor me, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn back with me; and I have bowed myself unto Jehovah thy God.'
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the Philistines, the in uncircumcision? And Samson said unto his father, Take her for me, for she please me well.
So that when it was God's desire to make it specially clear to them that by his word were to have the inheritance, that his purpose was fixed, he made it more certain with an oath,
And the border of the Edomites went from the ascent of Akrabbim, from Selah and up.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Now for. went to Shechem to his mother's family, and said unto them, and unto all the family of his mother's father,
through being a Son, did learn by the things which he suffered the obedience
and Abiathar told David that Saul hath slain the priests of Jehovah.
And revealed are both of them unto the garrison of the Philistines, and the Philistines say, Behold, Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they have hid themselves.'
That through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of the Lord to walk therein, as their fathers did keep it, or not.
And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ Lord to God Father's glory.
And Gilead's wife bare sons, and when her sons became men, they sent Jephthah away, saying, Ye have no portion in the heritage of our father's house, for thou art the son of another woman.
And he had seventy sons, that came out of his loins, for he had many wives.
And Abdon son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in Pirathon, in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekite.
Saul and his men went to seek him. When And it was told David; he went down to the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when he heard it, he pursued David in the wilderness of Maon.
Through faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the first-born should touch them.
Yahweh's angel came up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, "I brought you out of Egypt, and bring thee into the land which I sware to give your fathers. I said, 'I shall never break my covenant with you.
If indeed they had been thought on that country from which they went out, they would have had enough time to return.
I also will not again dispossess any from before them of the nations which Joshua hath left when he died,
that Jehovah called unto Samuel. And he said, Here am I.
For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
And he will take your daughters for perfumers, and cooks, and bakers.
And he said, "What is the thing that he hath spoken unto thee? I pray you, don't hide it from me. God do so to you, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he spake unto you."
And now they were come near Jebus, and the day was far presented the servant said unto his master: Come, I beseech thee, let us turn into the city of the Jebusites, and lodge there.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it into the temple of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And Gideon built there an altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah-Shalom, unto this day it yet in Ophrah, of the Abi-Ezrites.
And they say unto the messengers that are coming, Thus shall ye say to the men of Jabesh-Gilead: To-morrow ye have safety by the heat of the sun;' and the messengers came, and told the men of Jabesh, and they rejoice;
And Samson said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines. And he put out all his strength, and the house came down upon the chiefs and upon all the people that were in it. So the dead whom he sent to destruction by his death were more than all them on whom he had overthrew in his life.
And the trees said unto the fig tree, Come thou, reign over us.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not unto his appearance, and unto the height of his stature, for I have rejected him; for [it is] not as man seeth for man looketh at the eyes, and Jehovah looketh at the heart.'
having reasoned that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from whence he received him back also as a symbol.
Give ear now to their voice, but make a grave, protest unto them, and give them a figure of the manner of king that will be their ruler.
Jephte therefore went with the princes of Gilead, and all the people made him their prince. And Jephte spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come to contend with us, that we will say unto them, Gratify us with them, because we did not take each man his wife in the war; for ye did not give them unto them, that ye should now be guilty.
Then the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, "Come up to us, and we will show thee something!" Then Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, "Come up after me, for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel!"
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it on the cart, and the vessels of gold, which thou have paid him for sin, ye shall put into a little tablet, at the side thereof; and send him away that it may go.
But Barak pursued after the chariots and the army to Harosheth of the Gentiles; and all the host of Sisera, fell by the edge of the sword. And there was not a man left.
and he sent messengers to Abimelech in Tormah, saying, "Look, Gaal son of Ebed and his brethren are coming to Shechem, and they are stir up the city against thee.
So the servants of David returned their way, and returning came and told him all the words that he said.
for it is testified, "You are a priest for ever, according to the ordinance of Melchizedek."
Therefore receive him in the Lord with all joy, and consider such people highly honored,
And when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah back from the land of Tob;
After him Jair, the Gileadite arose, and he judged Israel twenty and two years.
And they told it to Jotham, and he went in, and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye citizens of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
Now Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth into the land. And the two of them went out together into the open field.
And Moses indeed faithful in all his house, as a ministering servant, for a testimony of the things that are to be spoken after.
There is none holy as Jehovah, for there is none besides thee, neither is there any rock like our God.
Then Manoah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, Oh, Lord, let the man of God whom ye sent come to us again, and show us what we shall do for the child that is to come.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore get her for me to wife.
And by faith Abraham hath offered up Isaac, being tried; and the only begotten he did offer up that received the promises;
For I know that this shall be for my salvation through thy prayer and the giving out of the treasures of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul cast the spear, and said, I will smite David and the wall. But David turned away from him twice.
neither did they show kindness unto the house of for. Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had showed unto Israel.
yea, the five men, those that were to go to traverse the land, go up they are come thither they have taken the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten images, even and the priest shall stand at the door of the gate, and the six hundred men that are girded with weapons of war.
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her companions, and bewail her virginity upon the mountains.
And the weight of the golden rings that he requested was a thousand seven hundred of gold; besides the moons, and eardrops, and the purple garments that were on the kings of Midian, and besides the chains which were about their camels' necks
And the Philistines were assembled together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is upon the sea-shore in multitude; and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Beth-Aven.
neither have they done kindness unto the house of Jerubbaal even Gideon according to all the good which he did with Israel.
And David was greatly grieved: and for the people spake of stoneth him; for the soul of all the people was moved with anger, every man because of his sons and because of his daughters; but David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
For to me life is Christ and death is profit.
When Jehovah raised up judges for them, then Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it grieved Jehovah because of their groaning by reason of them that oppressed them and troubled them.
And Samuel said, Is it not when thou wast little in thine eyes that thou the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
He will take your daughters as his incense makers and as cooks and as bakers.
Gilead's wife also bare him sons; and the sons of his wife grew up and drove Jephthah away, and they said unto him, "You shall not inherit the house of our father because ye are the son of another woman."
And Moab was subdued on that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.
And he asked for water, and she gave milk; in a drinking bowl for nobles, she brought butter.
O ye of Israel, that have willingly offered your lives, to peril, bless ye Jehovah.
And David said unto Saul, A shepherd hath thy servant been to his father among the sheep, and the lion shall come and the bear and hath taken away a sheep out of the flock;
And the princes of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found nothing in him since the day of his falling away [to me] unto this day?
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and took, and went, as Jesse commanded him; and he came to the rampart; as the host was going forth to the battle, and shouted for the battle.
And when the morning of the fifth day he rose up to go away; but the girl's father said, Get you up thy strength: So the two of them had a feast, and the man and his woman and his servant went not till after the midst of the day.
and his returning to Ramath, for there his house, and there he hath judged Israel, and he built there an altar unto Jehovah.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And David said to Achis: But what have I done, and what hast thou found in me thy servant, from the day that I have been in thy sight unto this day, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a saviour, unto the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
The hoofs of the horses were broken while the fattest of the enemies fled amain, and fell headlong down.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And he arose early in the morning in the fifth day to depart; and the damsel's father said, Comfort thy heart, I pray thee. And they tarried until afternoon, and they did eat both of them.
Gideon said unto him, "Excuse me, my lord. If Jehovah is with us, why then hath all this happened unto us? Where are all his wonderful works that our fathers recounted unto us, saying, 'Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt?' But now Jehovah hath forsaken us; he hath given us into the palm of Midian."
But the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou me about my name, seeing that it is a wonder?
Now the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle, and were gathered together at Shochoh, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped in Ephesdammim. between Shochoh and Azekah,
The cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh, and stood there, where was a great stone. Then they clave the wood of the cart, and offered up the kine for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
Jehovah restoreth unto every man his righteousness and his truth: For Jehovah gave you into my hand this day, but I would not stretch out my hand upon Yahweh's anointed.
But he also despiseth the words of Israel, suffered him not to pass through his border: but gathering much people, went out against him to Jahaz; and madest strong conflict.
Yea, the ark of God was taken, and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.
But now this is the thing which we will do to the hill: [we go] by lot against it;
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart faint at him; thy servant shall go out and have a fight with this Philistine.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render back upon their heads; and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
And these all, that hath obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise,
Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth day of the spoil.
Now know ye the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, so hath he served with me in the gospel.
But this we will do in common against the hill:
My brethren, take heed that there is not by chance in any one of you an evil heart without believe turning away from the living God:
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
and Abdon, the son of Hillel, died, and his body was put to rest in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of Amalek.
For the commandment which said, If the mountain is touched even by a beast, the beast shall be surely stoned, seemed hard unto them;
Zebulun and the land were a people that jeoparded their lives unto the death in the high places of the field.
And they two showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines, and the Philistines said, "The Hebrews came forth out of the clefts wherein they have hid themselves."
And the men of Israel were distressed that day: for Saul had straitly sworn the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until even, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted any victuals.
and a great priest over the house of God,
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come forth unto you, and ye shall do to it seemeth good unto you.
But if ye have fear of going down, take thy servant Purah with you, and go down to the tents.
Women received their dead by resurrection. Others tortured, not had respect of their those that escape, that they might obtain a better resurrection.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Ajalon; and the people were very faint.
that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence with you again.
And the ambush hasted, and fell upon Gibeah: and the ambush drew along, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, for he had nine hundred chariots, of iron; and he mightily oppressed the children of Israel for twenty years.
And by faith we take that the worlds were framed by word of God, that that which is seen might not take of the strength of things which appear.
David went from thence to Mizpeh of Moab, and he said to the king of Moab, "Please let my father and my mother come out with thee, until I know what God will do for me."
God, having in the past spoken unto the fathers through the prophets at many times and in divers ways,
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is one, who gave authority unto Moses and Aaron, and who took your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; over against Jehovah your way wherein ye go.'
Do all things without murmurings and reasonings,
Now consider how great this man is, to whom also Abraham the patriarch gave tithes out of the principal things.
Saul heard that David was uncovered, with the men that were with him. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah, under the tamarisk tree in Ramah, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing round about him.
And Delilah taketh wreathen new ones, and bound him with them, and saith unto him, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and the ambush is abiding in an inner chamber, and he brake them from off his arms as a web.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah gave the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand, and they smote them in Bezek ten thousand men.
that ye may prove the things that differ, that ye may be pure and offenceless to a day of Christ,
Seeing therefore it abideth that some enter into it, and them that first received the gospel did not enter in by reason of not obey the word,
God hath given into thy hand the chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; what have I been able to do to be compared unto you? And when he had said this, their felt about him became kinder.
shall never be stretched out my hand against the man anointed with the holy oil; but take the spear which is by his head and the vessel of water, and let us go.
And when they forgat Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
We have an altar from which they that minister the holy tabernacle have no right to eat.
And now I have heard that thou hast shearers; now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there aught erred concerning by them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And the weight of the earlets which he asked, was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides the ornaments, and jewels, and purple raiment which the kings of Midian were went to use, and besides the golden chains that were about the camels' necks
And all the common people came into a forest, in which there was honey upon the ground.
And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the stuff.
Ehud, escaped while they waited, passed beyond the stone idols, and escaped alone to Seirah.
But now they desire a better, that is to say, The heavenly country. Therefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he prepared for them a city.
And the Spirit of God shall prosper over Saul, in his heard these words, and his anger was kindled greatly;
for of the living creatures whose blood is carried [as sacrifices for sin] into the [holy of] most by the high priest, of these the bodies are burned without the camp.
So that we may be as the other nations, and so that our king may be our judge and go out before us to war.
And Jehovah also will deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou and thy sons shall be with me, and Jehovah will also deliver the army of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
Let love of the brethren abide.
So they took away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and he could not longer bear the affliction of Israel.
So Saul said, "Bring hither to me the burnt-offering and the fellowship offerings." Then he offered up the burnt-offering.
Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And the Sidonians, and Amalek, and Maon have oppressed you, and ye shall cry unto me, and I save you out of their hand;
And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning watch, and slew the children of Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass, that they which remained are scattered abroad, so that two of them were not left together.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it; and they called the name of the city Hormah.
Now then observe to have no wine nor strong drink, and to take no unclean thing for food;
and they forget Jehovah their God, and he selleth them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fight against them,
His request was for water, she gave him milk; she put butter before him on a fair plate.
But when Israel came up out of Egypt, and walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And his three eldest sons followed Saul unto the battle; and the names of his three sons that went to the battle, were Eliab the first-born, and the second Abinadab, and the third Shema.
Now therefore beware and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing.
Neither the office of the priests unto the people, but whosoever had offered a sacrifice, the servant of the priest came, while the flesh was in boiling, with a fleshhook of three teeth in his hand,
This is yet more abundantly evident: if after the likeness of Melchizedek there arise another priest,
Then he said, I have sinned: yet honor me now before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship the Lord thy God.
And when they blew the three hundred trumpets, Jehovah set the sword of every one against his neighbor throughout the whole camp, and the camp fled as far as and Shittah toward Zererah, up to Abel Meholah, the border by Tabbath.
And over it were the cherubim of glory with their wings covering the mercy-seat; about which it is not possible now to say anything in detail.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died with him.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, Ishvi, and Malki-Shua; the names of his two daughters thus: the name of the first-born was Merab and the younger was Michal.
Samuel said unto the people, "It is Jehovah that appointed Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
And when these went to Micah's house, they took the divine graven image, ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image, and the priest asked them, "What are ye doing?"
And the waters shall no more be an old man in thy house.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a certain Levite, pilgrimage on the further side of the hill-country of Ephraim, took him a concubine out of Beth-lehem-judah.
When Samuel was old, he made his sons judges to be over Israel.
Samson went down to Gaza; there he saw a harlot and had go in unto her.
And it came to pass at the time when Merob the daughter of Saul should have been given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Molathite to wife.
And Jehovah heard the prayer of Manue, and the angel of the Lord appeareth again to his wife as she was sitting in the field. But Manue her husband was not with her. And when she saw the angel,
And ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel came over against Gibeah, and the battle was sore but they didn't know that evil was close unto them.
And he had thirty sons; and thirty daughters he sent out of the house, and thirty daughters he took in from abroad for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
Now there arose after him Jair the Gileadite, and he judgeth Israel twenty and two years,
And she set with the pin, and said unto him, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and he awaked out of his sleep, and removed with the pin of the weaver's shuttle, and with the web.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and they said unto him, Suffer me to pass through thy land to the river.
But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
For the word of God swift, and powerful, and fiercer than any two-edged sword, piercings even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
And when she came to him, she moved him to ask of her father a field: As she alighted from the ass, Caleb said, "What do ye want?"
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the avail; depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Hareth.
So he trusted everything unto her, and he said unto her, "A razor hath not touched my head, for I am a Nazirite of God from birth. If I am shaved my strength shall leave me, and I will become weak, like every one else.
Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and this day, and for ever [to come].
Then David went over to the other side and stood on the top of the mountain afar off: a great space being between them.
And my father, see, yea see the skirt of thine robe in my hand; for by cutting off the skirt of thy robe, and I have not slain thee, know and see that there is not in my hand evil and transgression; and I have not sinned against thee, and thou art hunting my soul to take it.
Then he also went to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Secu: and he asked, "Where are Samuel and David?" And one said, "Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah."
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye turn to the Lord with all thy heart, put away the foreign gods from the midst of thee, the Baalim and Ashtaroth. and prepare for your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
The Lord chose new wars, and he himself overthrew the gates of the enemies; a shield and spear was not seen among forty thousand of Israel.
Beware brethren, lest by any means there be in any one of you an evil heart of their unbelief, in falling away from the living God;
and most of the brethren, trust in Jehovah because of my chain; dare even more to speak the word without fear.
For while the son of Jesse liveth on the earth, the priesthood is unsafe and thy kingdom is in jeopardy. So make him come hither to me, for it is surely right for him to be put to death.
All chastening seemeth for the present to be not joyous but grievous: yet afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness to them that have been exercised thereby.
And David said to his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the baggage;
And they took their bones, and bury under the tamarisk in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
and the women answered with them playing; and say, `Saul hath smitten among his thousands, And David among his myriads.'
And Micaiah said unto him, dwell with me, and be my father and a priest, and I will give thee yearly ten pieces of silver, and a suit of garments, and thy victuals. And the Levite went in.
Samuel said, "Though ye were little in your own sight weren't ye made the head of the tribes of Israel? Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel;
And God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and by more than natural powers, and by his distribution of the Holy Spirit will.
And behold, they saw an old man, returning out of the field, and from his work in the evening, and he also was of the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt as a sojourner in Gabaa; but the men of that country were the children of Jemini.
Gilead beyond the Jordan did tabernacle, And Dan: why doth he sojourn ships? Asher hath abode at the haven of the seas, And by his creeks dwelleth
And they laid the ark of Jehovah was upon the cart, and the coffer with the mice of gold and the images of their emerods.
So was the first smite wherein Jonathan and his armorbearer killed about twenty men within of half of a furrow? in an acre of an open field.
And the people told him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done unto the man that smiteth him.
Therefore ought we more diligently to observe the things which we have heard, lest haply we should let them slipped.
So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and they said, Cast out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return unto its place, that it may not be the cause of death with us, and our people; for there was a great fear of death through all the city; the hand of God was very sore them there.
So Delilah took new ropes and bound him with them, and she said unto him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson!" (The ambushment was sitting in an inner room.) But he snapped them from his arms like web.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, of what family art thou? And David said, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.
and, behold, this the thing which we do unto Gibeah against it by lot!
He chooseth new gods, Then war at the gates. a shield is not seen and a spear Among forty thousand in Israel.
and above it cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy-seat, of which things we can't speak now in detail.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou take me down to this band? And he said, If thou give me thy oath that thou wilt not put me to death or give me up unto my master, I will take you unto them.
though I could have confidence even in the flesh. If any man else thinketh to put confidence in the flesh, I can do so more:
He was asked by him whence he came. And he answered, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah and I go to dwell where I canst, and where I shall find a place to my advantage.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold him into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
For the law, yet possessing a shadow of the good things that were about to come not the form of things itself, is never able year by year by means of the same sacrifices which they offer without interruption to make perfect them that draw near,
For ye know that also after that, when he was minded to inherit the blessing, he was rejected because he did not find an occasion of repentance, although he sought it with tears.
By faith, concerning coming things, Isaac did bless Jacob and Esau:
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went, and made Abimelech king by the Plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
Now there was a set sign between the men of Israel and the ambush, that they should make a thick pillar of smoke rise up out of the city.
And Gedeon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And David took all the flocks and the herds, they drove before the other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
whence also he is able to save to the very end, that came through him unto God, ever living to make intercession for them.
circumcised on the eighth day, from the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born from Hebrews, according to the law a Pharisee,
And the priest delivered to him the holy thing, for there was no bread there, save the bread of the his face which is turned aside from the presence of Jehovah to put hot bread in the day that it was taken away.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; ye must yet return him a trespass-offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not taken away from you.
The valley brook of Kishion swept them away, even the raging valley stream, the brook river Kishon; on, and on, my soul, with strength!
and they have asked of thee of welfare, and given to thee two loaves, and thou hast received of their hand.
Then said Saul unto his servant, "Well said. Come, let us go." So they went to the city where the man of God was.
When Jacob came in to Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your fathers out of Egypt, and cause them to dwell in this place,
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath drove out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou inherit it?
Now when it was evening they saw an old man coming back from his work in the field; he was from the hill-country of Ephraim and dwelt in the hill: but the men of the place were Benjamites:
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall do unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall appoint thee a ruler over Israel,
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the captain of his army was Sisera, who dwelt in Harosheth-Goim.
David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Wilt thou not answer, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou, that cry, and disturbest the king?
If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we minister unto thee: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
But now this is the thing which we will do to the hill: we will go up against it by lot:
And she said, "Oh, my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by ye here, praying unto Jehovah.
and like a robe thou shalt roll them up, and like a garment they shall thereof; but ye are the same, And thy years will not run out."
And when they were come to the land of Suph, Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us return, lest haply my father forget the asses, and have regard for us.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chooseth for him five smooth stones from the brook, and put them in the shepherds' habiliments that he hath, even in the wallet, and his sling in his hand, and he drew nigh unto the Philistine.
And the angel of Jehovah did not appear again to Manoah and his wife, and then Manoah knew that he was a messenger of Jehovah.
For ye had compassion on them that were in prison, and had joy in the loss of thy goods in the knowledge that ye had yet a better possession and one which thou wouldest keep for ever.
For it is God who is the cause of your lusts and of thine acts, for his good pleasure.
And he sent messengers throughout Manasseh, and they also were gathered after him; and he sent messengers to Asher, and to Zebulun, and to Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
Now therefore let not my blood fall to the ground away from the presence of Jehovah, for the king of Israel is gone out to seek a several flea, as one taketh partridge in the mountains."
And David went he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the brook Besor; and those that were left tarried behind.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and put out of their minds Jehovah their God, and became servants to the Baalim and the Astartes.
And every priest indeed standeth daily minister, and oft-times offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins.
And she said unto him, "Give me a blessing; for that thou hast given me the land of the South, and give me also a fountain of water." And he gave her the upper and the nether springs.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came mightily upon him, and he rent him as he would have rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand; but he told not his father or his mother, what he had done.
And by faith Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the going out of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of an harlot; and Gilead begat Jephthah.
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
And all the men of Israel were gathered unto the city as one body united.
and Jehovah called unto Samuel, and he said, Here am I.'
Go and cry unto the gods whereon ye have fixed: they save thee in the time of your adversity.'
and the king sitteth on his throne, as time by time, On a seat by the wall, and Jonathan arose, and Abner sitteth at the side of Saul, and David's place is looked after.
And when I saw that ye would not save me, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah gave them into my hand. wherefore then are ye come up to me this day, to fight against me?
And the people speak unto him according to this word, saying, Thus shall it be done unto the man that smote him.'
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Gaal spake again and said, "Behold, people are coming down by the midst of the land, and one company cometh by the way of the oak of Meonenim."
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, Lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest: is it good for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a family in Israel?
And the day after the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of his house. And David played with his hand as at the other times. And Saul held a spear in his hand,
And the Lord said, Judah is to go up: behold, I have given the land into his hand.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives according to their number, of them that danced, whom they take unto thyself; and they went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon didn't hearken unto the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
That I may know him, and of the power of his resurrection of the dead, and a part with him in his torments, possessed become like him in his death;
though he were Son, he learned obedience from the things which he suffered;
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah because of the Midianites,
And the garrison of the Philistines went out unto the passage of Michmash.
Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus,
But early in the morning when Nabal had inserted his wine, his wife told him these words, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
Then Samuel said, "Bring Agag the king of Amalek out to me!" Agag came to him securely, for Agag thought, "Surely the bitterness of death is over."
And it shall be in the morning when the sun is up, thou shalt rise up early, and fall upon the city; and behold, he and the people that is with him shall come out against thee, and thou shalt do with him as thou shalt find time.
Now Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
And the child Samuel waxed on, and was in favor both with Jehovah, and also with men.
Blessings be upon Jael, more than upon all women. Blessings greater than upon any in the tents.
And she sent and called Barac the son of Abinoem out of Kedesh in Naphtali; and she said unto him, Jehovah, the God of Israel hath commanded thee; Go, and lead an army to mount Thabor, and thou shalt take with thee ten thousand valiant men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun:
But of doing good, and contribution [of your substance] be not forgetful, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
And Samson said unto them, When ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.
And the young men of David come in, and speak unto Nabal according to all these words, in the name of David and rest.
But his concubine felt repugnance toward him, and she left him, and went to her father's house, to Beth-lehem in Judah; she was there some four months.
But the men would not hearken unto him: so the man took his woman and send her out unto them; and they forced her, using her for their pleasure all night until the morning; and while the day came they let her go.
So the five men going on came to Lais: and they saw how the people dwelt therein in safety; after the custom of the Sidonians, sure and easy, having no man at all against them, being very rich, and living separated, over against Sidon and from all men.
But I will not utter this my necessities, for I am ready whithersoever I am, to be fed from myself.
And Jehovah spake again to call Samuel the third time, And he arose, and went unto Eli, and said, Here am I, for thou hast called for me;' and Eli perceived that Jehovah called to the youth.
Samuel said unto Saul, "Yahweh sent me to anoint you to be king over his people, over Israel. Now therefore hearken to the voice of Yahweh's words.
And Samuel said, What then this bleating of sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of oxen which I hear?
The cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and Israel recovered the border thereof out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
The princes of the Philistines were passed by according to hundreds and thousands, David and his men passed on hinder part with Achish.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of thanks to God always, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks unto his name.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul waxed David's enemy continually.
the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words; which they that heard it besought that not one more word should be spoken unto them,
And the men did so, and took two milch cows and bound them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home;
David answered, "Behold the spear, O king. Then let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things true, whatsoever things noble, whatsoever things just, whatsoever things pure, whatsoever things amiable, whatsoever things of good report; if [there be] any power and if any praise, think upon these things.
And behold, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned.
Then the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, "What is this wickedness that happened among you?
I will shoot three arrows upon its side, as though I shot at a mark.
And they that strive with Jehovah shall be broken in pieces; in the heavens shall he thunder upon them. Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; and he will give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed.
And he caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, and the family of Matri was taken: and Saul the son of Kish was taken. And they sought him, but he was not to be found.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up a saviour, Ehud, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left-handed. And next unto him the children of Israel sent a gift to Eglon; king of Moab.
In those days was there no king in Israel. In those days the tribe of the Danites sought an inheritance to dwell in; for to that day, their inheritance had not fallen to them among the tribes of Israel.
"The vine said unto them, 'Should I leave my new wine, which maketh glad God and man, and go to wave to and fro over the trees?'
And he answered them, I Because Israel took away my land when he came up out of Egypt, from the confines of the Arnon unto the Jaboc and the Jordan: now therefore restore the same peaceably unto me.
And gathering together an army, he smote Amalek, and delivered Israel from the hand of them that despoil them.
And the men of Israel, that were beyond the valley, and beyond the Jordan, saw that the children of Israel were fled, and that Saul was dead, and his sons, forsook their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt there.
And he sware again to David. And David said, Thy father surely knoweth that I have found favor in thy sight, and he will say, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved; But truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is one step (as I may say), between me and death.
Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised Philistine, shall be as one of them, because he hath defied the hosts of the living God.
And we desire that every one of you do show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end:
Then Samuel, that heard all the people had to say, went and told it unto Jehovah.
He used to go on the plain from year to year. And he went about Beth-el, Gilgal, and Mizpah, and he judged Israel in all these places.
All these died in faith, not having received the promises; but having seen them from afar off and exhorted them, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners upon the earth.
for, doubtless, of messengers it shall not lay away, but of the seed of Abraham it layeth hold,
And David arose, and he and his men went and slew the two hundred men of the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins, and they presented the full number to become the king's son-in-law. Therefore Saul gave him Michal his daughter to be his wife.
And the Philistine, drew nigh morning and evening, and setteth himself forty days.
And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou shalt but hate me, and lovest me not: thou hast put forth a dark saying unto the children of my people, and hast not told it me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father nor my mother, and shall I tell it thee?
There is no creature that is hid from his sight, but not all things are naked and laid open in the sight of him to whom we must give an account;
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, "David spake like this."
for, As Jehovah liveth, who is saving Israel: surely if it be in Jonathan my son, surely he shall surely die;' and none giveth answer him out of all the people.
Wherefore have ye not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah and fall with shouting on the spoil? ye have done evil in the sight of Yahweh!"
Yahweh's angel appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, "See now, ye are barren and childless; but ye shall conceive, and bear a son.
But Sihon trusted not Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz; and fought against Israel.
And she said unto him, "My Father, ye sware unto Jehovah. Do unto me according to that which is gone forth out of thy mouth, seeing Jehovah gave vengeance to you against your enemies, the Ammonites."
And the children of Benjamin drove not out the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do always err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.
And he said unto them, Follow after me, for Jehovah hath delivered thine enemies the Moabites into thy hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered no man to pass over.
By a new and living way, which he separateth for us, through the veil that is to say, his flesh;
Then he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and put his brethren, the seventy sons for. death on the same stone; however, Jotham, the youngest, kept his soul, go to secret.
Revile ye Meroz, said the angel of Jehovah, curse ye bitterly the inhabitants thereof; because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
and Samuel said, Bring ye so nigh unto me Agag king of Amalek,' and Agag cometh unto him daintily, and Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death hath turned aside.'
Her rival provoked her sore; to irritate her, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
By the which shall we are sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And David said unto Jonathan, "Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, And I should not fail to dine with the king; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field to the third day at even.
and to them that are in Hormah, and to them that are in Chor-ashan, and to them that are in Athach,
And when Gaal saw the people, he said unto Zebul: Behold, a multitude cometh down out of the mountains. And he answered him, Thou seest the shadows of the mountains as if they were the heads of men, and this is thy oversight:
And he turned a little aside from him to another, and said the same word. And the people answered him as beforetime.
And Saul said unto David, Here is my eldest daughter of Saul, whom I will give you for your wife: only be strong for me, fighting in the Lord's wars; For Saul said, Let it not be through me that his event unto him, but through the Philistines.
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus:
So Saul returned from pursuing David, and went against the Philistines. therefore they called that place Sela Hammahlekoth.
So the people sent to Shiloh and gathered the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts that dwelleth between the cherubim; and Hophni and Phinehas, the two sons of Eli, were there with the ark of God's covenant.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, and lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest. Is it good for thee to be a priest for the house of one man, or to be priest for a tribe and a family in Israel?
And the children of Israel said, "Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that didn't come up in the assembly to Yahweh?" For they had made a great oath concerning him that didn't come up unto Jehovah to Mizpah, saying, "He shall surely be put to death."
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, "We have sinned; do unto us accordingly as ye see fit; only please deliver us this day."
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever gentle, whatsoever just, whatsoever holy, whatsoever fair; and whatsoever of good fame, if there be any fornication, if any praise of instruction, think upon these things.
And they said unto the men of Benjamin, Go into the vineyards, encamped, secretly,
But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
Count not thy handmaid for one of the daughters of base for out of the abundance of my sorrow and grief have I spoken until now.
and smote it into the pan, or pot, or caldron, or pot. And the priest took all that the parting brought up for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that were present.
And thou shalt see thy rival in the temple, in all the prosperity of Israel, and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
When Abigail saw David, she made haste, and alighted from off her ass; and they fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground.
And the people came to Beth-el, and sit there until the evening before God, and lift up their voice, and wept with a great weeping,
Now the children of Israel had given a sign unto them, whom they had laid in ambushes; that after they had taken the city, they should make a fire: that by the smoke rising on high, they might show that the city was taken.
For we would not have a high priest that is not able to bemoan our infirmity: but who hath been tempted in all things in like manner without sin.
And Samuel took a stone, and setteth between Mizpeh and Shen, and called the name Eben-Ezer, saying, Hitherto shalt hath Jehovah helped us.'
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and with him three thousand men, chosen of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph;
And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall we order the child, and how shall we do unto him?
And his father went down to the woman, and Samson prepared there a feast, as young men were accustomed to do this.
Awake, awake, Deborah; Awake, awake, utter a song; Arise, Barak, and carried away thy captivity, Son of Abinoam.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto Jephthah's messengers, "Because Israel took my land from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and the Jordan when they came up from Egypt: therefore restore it peacefully."
And when they rose up early in the morning after, Dagon was come down to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off on the doorstep; only the base was in its place.
Go now, and take more steps; and see where he is living: for they say that he is expert in deceit.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the parlour, and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden, which were about thirty persons.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel: and two thousand were with Saul in Michmas, and in mount Beth-el; and a thousand with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin, and the rest of the people he sent back every man to his tent.
And the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam, and the head of his spear was six hundred shekels of iron: and his armorbearer went before him.
Saul was told that David had come to Keilah. Saul said, "God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in by entered into a city that hath gates and bars."
And I will bring unto thee in the place of the brook Cison, Sisara the captain of Jabin's army, and his chariots, and all his multitude, and I will deliver them into thy hand.
And they gave him seventy shekels of silver, from the house of Baal-berith, wherewith Abimelech rose up the pillars of a number of rebellious worthless persons.
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
But the people took the spoil: they took sheep and oxen, and calves and slew them on the ground, and the people did eat them all with the blood.
Is not this David, to whom they sung in their dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
being filled with the fruit of righteousness, that through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
Then Jonathan said unto David, "Yahweh the God of Israel is my witness that I will demand of my father by this time the day after to-morrow. And behold, if he is well disposed toward you, will I not send word to you and disclose it unto thee?
And if to dwell in the flesh to me a fruit of work, then what shall I have chosen? I know not;
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, How is it that thou dost ask after my name, seeing it is hard for me?
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not; for who can stretch forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
He scraped it out into his hands, and he went on eating it as he went: and he went to his father and his mother and gave some to them, and they did eat it: but he did not tell them that he had scraped the honey out of the body of the lion.
and also all that generation shall be gathered unto their fathers, and another generation riseth after them that have not known Jehovah, and even the work which he had done to Israel.
And he sent to Abimelech at Arumah, saying, Behold, Gaal, the son of Ebed and his brethren are come unto Shechem, and they are stirring up a city against thee.
and that most of the brethren in the Lord being careless through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to speak the word of God without fear.
And David rose up, and passed over, he and six hundred men that were with him, unto Achish son of Maoch king of Gath;
Samuel arose, and went from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
And though by this time it would be right for you to be teachers, thou still have need of one to teach you concerning the first simple statutes of God's revelation; thou art become like suck that have need of milk, and not of pure food.
And this shall be the sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, Ophni, and Phinees: In one day they shall both of them die.
He will take the tenth part of your sheep; and ye shall be his servants.
And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Suffer me to pass through thy land. But he would not condescend to his request, He sent also to the king of Moab, that likewise refused to give him passage. And he abode therefore in Kadesh,
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel to Ramah:
And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou shalt but hate me, and lovest me not. Thou hast propounded the dark saying unto the children of my people, and hast not been declared it to me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not been declared it to my father nor my mother, and shall I declare it to thee?
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands; which are the figures of the true: but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us:
And Samuel said unto the people, Let Jehovah, the He that made Moses and Aaron, and who brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
and it shall be, when their fathers nor their brethren came to plead unto us, that we have said unto them, Have mercy upon us them, for we have not taken every man his wife in battle; for ye have not given unto them at this time ye are guilty.'
Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
So the Philistines were broken in pieces; and did not come into the country of Israel again: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
And others enjoy mocking and flogging, and besides bonds and imprisonment.
If he is able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be thy servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then ye shall be our servants and serve us."
Thou shalt not go away till I come with my oblation, and kill it before you. And he said, I will not go out before thee return.
Why do ye despise my sacrifice and my oblation which I commanded for my dwelling-place, while thou honored your sons more than me by making yourselves fat of the best of all the offerings of my people Israel?
But David said, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with these things, which Jehovah hath given us, who hath kept us, and hath delivered the robbers that invaded us into our hands.
So David smote the land and did not leave a man or a woman alive; he took the sheep, the cattle, the asses, the camels, and the apparel; and he returned, and came to Achish.
But to tarry on in the flesh is more for your sake.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And he gathered the children of Ammon and Amalek to himself, and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of palm-trees.
And she sent and called Barak son of Abinoam, out of Kedesh-Naphtali, and said unto him, Is not Jehovah, the God of Israel, it? go, and thou hast drawn toward mount Tabor, and hast taken with thee ten thousand men, out of the sons of Naphtali, and out of the sons of Zebulun,
And the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
Then Jesse said unto his son David, "Please take for your brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves of bread, and bring them quickly to the camp for your brethren.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul departed unto his house. And David and his men are gone up unto the fortress.
and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron stood before it in those days; that thou saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day together.
For if the word spoken through angels proved stedfast, and every transgression and transgression received a just recompense.
and that I may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which [would be] is of the law, but that which is by faith in Christ, the righteousness which of God through faith,
And when these went into Micah's house, and took the graven image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said unto them, "What are ye doing?"
Gilead dwelt beyond the Jordan: Why did Dan abide in ships? Asher sat yet at the haven of the sea, and dwelt by his creeks.
In these days hath spoken to us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the world.
Anna answered and said, Nay, my lord, but for I am an exceeding wretched woman, and have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And ye shall cry out in that day from the face of the king, whom ye have chosen to yourselves. and the Lord will not hear you in that day, because ye desired unto you a king.
and him that was made some little less than messengers we see even Jesus because of the suffering of the death, with glory and honor having been crowned, that by the grace of God for every one he might taste of death.
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, Such words as these did David spoken.
And David said to Abigal Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me:
David inquired of Jehovah, saying, "If I pursue after this troop, will I overtake them?" And he answered him, "Pursue; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and will without fail recover all."
And therefore he is a mediator of the new covenant; that by means of his death, for the redemption of those transgressions, that were under the former covenant, they that are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
And the family of the Danites journeyed from Zorah, and Eshtaol, with six hundred men that drew weapons of war.
And Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, and she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time, for he hath told me all his heart. And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought the money in their hand.
each not to your own look ye, but every man also to the things of others.
Samuel said unto all Israel, "Behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice in all that thou said unto me, and have made a king over you.
Then said Saul unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed Amalek.
But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up unto heaven.
So Micah appointed the Levite, and the young man became a priest for him; and he was in the house of Micah.
and they cut off his head, and strip off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings unto the house of their idols, and the people;
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, turn in unto me; fear not. And he turned in unto her, into the tent, and she covered him with the quilt.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Have ye look upon him whom Jehovah hath fixed, for there is none like him among all the people?' And all the people shout, and said, Long live the king live!'
So I have not sinned against thee, but it was thou that doest me wrong in making war against me. Jehovah, the judge, be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon!
And these are the golden emerods which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering unto Jehovah; for Ashdod, one, for Gaza one, for Askelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
For though by this time ye should be teachers, you again need to have one teach you the rudiments of the first rudiments of the revelations of God: ye are come to need milk, and not pure food.
And then let themselves be turned away, it is not possible for their hearts to be made new a second time, because they themselves put the Son of God on the cross again, openly shame him.
For this one is counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, forasmuch as he that buildeth it hath greater honor than the house.
For yet a very very little, He that cometh cometh, and doth not tarry;
So David and the six hundred men that were with him went over to Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath;
Now Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised. peradventure Jehovah will work for us; for there is no restraint unto Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: Let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my virginity; I and my fellows.
Then David and the people that were with him gave themselves up to weeping till they were able to weep no more.
They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered in rams' skins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented;
So Samuel spake all the words of Jehovah, to the people that desired a king from him.
Wherefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father should minister in my sight, for ever. But now saith Jehovah: Far be this from me: but whosoever shall glorify me, him will I glorify: but they that despise me, shall be despised.
And he went down and spake unto the woman, and she is right in the eyes of Samson;
Then said Samuel, Bring ye hither to me Agag the king of Amalek. And Agag came unto him delicately. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is passed away.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing?' and they inquire and seek, and they say, `Gideon son of Joash hath done this thing.'
And they told Jotham, and he went and stood on the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and saith unto them, `Hearken unto me, O masters of Shechem, and God will hearken unto you:
Now the Bethsamites were reaping wheat in the valley: and lifted up their eyes they saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
The Lord therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see; and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
Ye that ride upon white she-asses, ye that sit on carpets, and ye that walk by the way, understand.
And it was told Saul, he sent other messengers: but they also prophesied. And again Saul sent messengers the third time, and they prophesied also. And Saul being very sore,
and in this place again, "They shall not enter into my rest."
But if they shall say, Come up unto us: let us go up, because Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand this shall be the sign unto us.
and bring these ten cheeses to the captain of their thousand, and see how thy brethren do, and bring back news."
And the children of Dan were cast into the hill-country of the Amorites, who would not let them come down into the valley;
The five men, that before had been sent to spy out the land of Lais, said unto the rest of their brethren: Ye know that in these houses there is an ephod, and theraphim, and a graven image of the molten god; see what ye desire to do.
And when they were gone up early in the morning the next day there was Dagon fallen again with his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; the head of Dagon and the palms of his two hands were cut off, lying at the threshold. only the body of Dagon was left.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Go on cry unto Jehovah our God for us to make us out of the hand of the Philistines.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go away unharmed? Therefore Jehovah reward you good for that which thou hast done unto me this day.
And therefore we also having so great a cloud of witnesses over our head, putting away every weight and sin which compasseth us, Let us run by patience to the battle was minded to us:
And likewise he sprinkled both the tabernacle and all the vessels of service with the blood.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
Know ye not possess what Chemosh the god gave you to possess? Whosoever Jehovah our God hath driven out before us, we will possess it.
for even off this usury. be teachers, because of the time, again ye have need that one teach you what the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles of God, and ye are become had need of milk, and not of strong food,
And Nahash the Ammonite said unto them, On this will I set with you, that I thrust out all thy right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
And the host of the Philistines went out to proceed further in Machmas.
And Barak called Zebulun and the land to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet. And Deborah went up with him.
And she fell at his feet and said, "On me, my lord, be the guilt! Let, I pray thee, thy maid-servant speak unto you personally! Hear ye the words of thy female servant!
And they told Sisera, that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up unto mount Tabor.
Whereupon neither was the first indeed dedicated without blood.
For where a last shall and covenant is, there must of necessity, be the death of him that made it.
and Zebab and Zalmunna; flee, and he pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna; and all the camp he hath caused to tremble;
Forasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this, judgment,
He will take your daughters to be perfumers, to be cooks, and to be bakers.
And now also beware; I pray thee, and drink no wine nor strong drink, and eat nothing unclean.
And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove; I pray thee, but this once with the sheep; let it now be dry only upon the ones among and upon all the ground let there be dew.
One rock stood out toward the north over against Michmas, and the other to the south over against Gibea;
Jehovah raised up judges, who saved them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And Abimelech and the companies that were with him, rushed forward, and stood at the door of the gate of the city; and two of the companies ran upon all that were in the fields, and slew them.
What then? only that in every way, falsely or behold, the preaching of Christ goeth on; and in this I am glad, and shall be glad.
Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning; and Samuel was told, saying, "Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set up a memorial for himself, and turned, and passed on, and went down to Gilgal."
And the Philistine, said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine, cursed David by his gods.
And the sons of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, are gone up out of the city of palms with the sons of Judah the wilderness of Judah, which in the south of Arad, and they go and dwell with the people.
Let my prayer was for this child; and Jehovah hath given him me at my request:
His concubine who was in Shechem also bare him a son, and he called his name Abimelech;
Now I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation, for it is but in few words that I have written unto you.
And only the stump of Dagon remained in its place. For this cause neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that go into the temple tread upon the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod, unto this day.
So David prevailed over the Philistine, with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; But the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out, as out of the midst of a sling.
And Gaal son of Ebed said, Who Abimelech, and who Shechem, that we serve him? is not son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his commander? Serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem and why do we serve the same we?
So David's young men, turning away, returned and told him the words of all things which he had said.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim,
and the house of Joseph cause to spy about Beth-el (and the name of the city beforetime was Luz),
David also arose after this, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath taken away their land from the Amorite, and given it to his people Israel; are ye therefore to have it?
So they went on their way; and the sun went down when they drew nigh unto Gibeah in the land of Benjamin.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, The blessing of Jehovah be with you; I have done after the custom of the Lord.
But the lad Samuel continued to grow in stature, and in favor with Jehovah and with the people.
And the woman had in the house a young cow, made fat for food; and she kill it straight away; and she took dough, and gathered it mingled and made unleavened bread;
And he rose up early on the morrow, they built an altar, and offered there burnt-offerings, and sacrifices of peace, and they said,
through him, then let us offer up a sacrifice of thanksgiving always to God, which is the fruit of lips, giving thanks unto his name;
When therefore he came into the world, he said, "Sacrifice and offering thou didst not want, but a body ye prepared for me;
Then said Saul nothing that day; for he said, Something hath befallen it, that he is not clean: surely he shall not be clean.
And also the Strength of Israel shall not lie nor everywhere repent: for he is not a man, that he should repent:
(for who was it, who, when they heard this, provoked? but [was it] not all that came forth out of Egypt with Moses?
And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul smote his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were in peril, and the children of Ammon were very ill with us, and when I sent for thee, thou gavest me no help against them.
being mentioned by God a high priest according to the order of Melchizedek.
Therefore now return, and go in peace, that ye not displease the lords of the Philistines."
Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish. who was of Gallim.
Only go in the fear of Jehovah, and be his true servants with all your heart, and remember how many things he hath done for you.
and came to his house, and took the knife; and shall take hold of his concubine, and cut her in pieces to her bones. into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the border of Israel.
And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, Bring near unto me, I pray thee, the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod near to David.
Then Achish sent for David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou be righteous, and all that thou hast done with me in the host hath been well-pleasing unto me, I have seen no evil in you from the day when ye came unto me until now: but still, the lords are not pleased with you.
And every bad and worthless person, of the men that went with David, will answer; yea, they say, Because that they have not gone with us we do not give to them of the spoil which we have delivered, but every man his wife, and his children, and they lead away and go.
After whom did the king of Israel go out? After whom are ye pursuing? After a dead dog? After one flea?
Feeling that it was profitable for thee pain with the people of God, than for a little time to have a taste of the pleasures of sin;
And David and his men dwelt with Achish at Gath; every man had his family with him, and David had his two wives also, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail of Carmel, that had been the wife of Nabal.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anointed thee and to make thee king over his people, over Israel: therefore hear now to the words of Jehovah.
And as for thine asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind upon them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, that did with her according to his vow which he had any vow: and she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel,
So Manoah took the kid with the meal-offering thereof, oblation it on the rock to the Lord, who did foreign things.
And Saul encamped in Gibeah Hachila, which was over against the wilderness in the way; and David abode in the wilderness. And seeing that Saul was come after him into the wilderness,
And David said unto the Philistine, Thou shalt come unto me with the sword, and with spear, and with javelin; but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the forces of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
Now give up those vain persons in Gibeah so that we may put them to death, clear away the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
So David rebuked his men with the words and did not suffer them to rise against Saul. And Saul arose from the cave, and he went his way.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath delivered our enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and seized the fords of the Jordan, which are in the way to Moab: and they have suffered no man to pass over.
And David came to Saul, waiting before him; and he became very dear unto Saul, Who made him his servant, giving him the care of his arms.
The lad left, and then David arose from the south side and he fell upon his face to the earth, and did three times. And they kissed each other and wept together, but David wept the most.
Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's youngest brother, took it, so he gave him Achsah his daughter to be his wife.
And the lamp of God is not yet put out, And Samuel lieth down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God, saying,
and besides all controversy, the less by the better is blessed them
'Have they not found, have they not divided the spoil? A lady, two princesses to every man, to Sisera, as a spoil of dyed garments, a spoil of dyed garments embroidered, of dyed garments broidered thereof, upon the necks of the plunder?'
Don't be carried away by divers and strange parties, for it is good that the heart be established by grace, not by food, through which they that were so traded were not benefited.
Let our lord now command thy servants, that are before thee, to seek out a man, that is a skilful well on an harp: and it shall come to pass, when the demon from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And the five men went and came to hearken, and they kept the people that dwelt according to the customs of the Sidonians, quiet and unsuspecting, and lacketh nothing in the land, and yet possessing prison. And they were far from the Sidonians and had no word with any man:
For the law having a shadow of the coming good things not the very image of the matters, every year, by the same sacrifices that they offer continually, is never able to make perfect that came near,
And he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite the inhabitants of that land, and slew them not.
"Then thou shalt go forward from thence, and thou shalt come unto the oak of Tabor. Three men will meet you there going up to God to Beth-el, one bearing three kids, and another bearing three loaves; and another bearing a bottle of wine.
But we see him that was made a little lower than God, even Jesus, crowned with glory and honor because he let himself be put to death so that by the grace of God he might died for all men.
And Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
He had thirty sons, and as many daughters, whom he sent abroad, and gave to husbands, and took wives for his sons of the same number, brought them into his house; and he judged Israel seven years:
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and an offering at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor would he at this time have told us [such things] as these.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even, which was also of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he sojourned in the hill: but the men of the place were Benjamites:
And David's two wives also, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail the wife of Nabal of Carmel, had been bindeth them.
And I beseech you the more to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
David sware moreover, and said, "Your father knoweth well that I have found favor in your eyes, and he saith, 'Don't let Jonathan know this, Lest he be grieved:' howbeit as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a pulpit between me and death."
And Jehovah said unto him, Is it well with thee; fear not; thou shalt not die.'
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust. He lifteth up the needy from the dunghill; to make them sit with princes, and inherit the throne of glory. For the pillars of the earth are Yahweh's. He hath set the world upon them.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, When thou marchedst out of the fields of Edom, The earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, Yea, the skies drop water.
And the man would not lodge all night, and he arose, and went away, and came till over against Jebus (That Jerusalem), and with him a couple of asses saddled; and his concubine with him.
And the bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye are anointing me king over you, come, take refuge in my shadow; and if not, there came forth fire from feel the and devoureth the cedars of Lebanon.
And he spake also to the men of Penuel, saying, When I come again in peace, will I break down this tower.
And knowing the voice of the young man the Levite, and lodging with him, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? what dost thou here? wherefore hast thou come hither?
And he put his life in his hand, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great victory for all of Israel, and ye saw it, and rejoiced! Now why should ye sin against innocent blood by killing David without cause?"
Then Jonathan said unto him, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and ye shall be swerved because thy throne shall be empty.
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.
Therefore Jesus also suffered without the gate, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood.
And it was told Abimelech that all the masters of the tower of Shechem have gathered themselves together,
to the mark I pursue for the righteous, the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
When Gideon came thither, a man made his friend the dream, saying, Behold, I had a dream about a cake of barley bread which fall into the tents of Midian, came upon the tent, overthrew it so that it was stretched out flat upon the earth.
And behold, if it go up by the way of its own border to Beth-shemesh, it is he that hath done us this great evil; if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that touched us; it was a chance happened unto us.
How much more if the people had freely taken their food from the spoil of them that were fighting against them! would there not have been much greater destruction among the Philistines?
account the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt; for he looked to the reward.
As David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine, in his hand.
Be not cast away thy confidence, which hath great reward.
And the elders said, What shall we do with the rest, that, received not women? for all the women in Benjamin are dead.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have rejected him; for it is not as man seeth; for man looketh upon the appearance, but Jehovah looketh upon the heart.
This day will Jehovah deliver thee up into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the camp of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens and to the wild beasts of the earth. And all the earth shall know that Israel hath a God;
I thank my God in every remembrance of you,
Whithersoever they went forth, and the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them: and they were afraid.
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, and went hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
Now the Philistines had taken the ark of God and brought it from Ebenezer to in Ashdod, did
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath, and he sought no more after him.
And the children of Dan said unto him, "You should not let your voice be heard among us, so that ill-tempered men will not contend you, and take your life and the lives of thy household."
Nevertheless Saul spake not anything that day: for he said, Something hath befallen him, he is not clean; surely he shall not be clean.
The more eagerly, therefore, I have sent him, that when they saw him again ye may rejoice, and I may be less sorrowful;
Now the woman had a stalled calf in the house, so she hasted, and kill it and took dough, kneaded dough, and did bake him some unleavened bread.
But remember the former days in which after you were radiant; ye endured a great wrestling with sufferings,
They were a wall unto us both night and day, all the days we were with them keeping the sheep.
And, lo, if they had remembered the country from which they went out, they would have had chances of looketh back.
And now, here is the king walking up and down before you. But I am old and grayheaded, but my sons (look at them!) are with you; and I have walked about before you from my youth until this day.
And the war began again, and David went out and fought against the Philistines, and smote them with a great slaughter, and they fled from his face.
and there turn and flee into the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon six hundred men, and they dwell in the rock Rimmon four months.
and changed his countenance before them, and slipt down between their hands: and he stumbled against the doors of the gate, and his issue spit ran down upon his beard.
Now therefore make a new cart, and take two milch kine, whereon there shall come no yoke, and bind the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them:
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young women that were virgins, who had known no man by lying with any male, and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And David kept in the wilderness, in safe places, standing in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph; And Saul was seek him every day, but God did not deliver him into his hand.
But we cannot give them wives from our daughters." (for the children of Israel sware, saying, "Cursed be any man that giveth a wife to Benjamin.")
And here men that die receive tithes: but there he receiveth them, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.
But Samuel said unto Saul, "I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and he hath rejected you from being king over Israel!"
And in time death overtook all that generation. and another generation came after them, having no knowledge of the Lord or of the things which he had done for Israel.
For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a babe.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-Heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north side of the mountain of Gaash.
And sending them, they gathered together all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And the Gethrites said, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about.
And Jehovah shall be for judge, and will judge between me and thee, yea, he seeth and pleadeth my cause, and delivered me out of thy hand.'
and Jesse took an ass laden with bread and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.
And Samuel said unto Saul, `Desist, and I will tell thee that which Jehovah hath spoken unto me to-night;' and he saith unto him, `Speak.'
So he restored them to his mother, who said unto him, I have consecrated and vowed this silver to Jehovah, that my son may receive it at my hand, and make a graven and a molten god, so now I give it into thy hand.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and women of the city fled there, and shut themselves in, and went up to the roof of the tower.
and he said unto the children of Israel, "Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: 'I brought Israel up out of Egypt, and I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were oppressing you.'
And Gideon said, Therefore when Jehovah hath delivered Zebah and Zalmunna; into my hand, then I will tear thy flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with thorns.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man? knowing he is come out to profane Israel: and it is certain that, if any man overcome him, the king will give that man great riches, and I will give him his daughter, and make his father's family free in Israel.
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were too mighty for him, he turned and returned unto his house.
And Samuel called together the people unto Jehovah in Mizpah;
And Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Jaban king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor, and he had a captain of his host named Sisera, and he dwelt in Haroseth of the Gentiles.
And Saul sought to slay David and the wall with the spear; but he crept away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall. And David fled, and escaped that night.
And it came to pass, when Israel hath been strong, that he setteth the Canaanites to taskwork, and hath not utterly drive them it.
And he called him, on that day, for. saying, The Baal plead against him, because he hath broken down his altar.'
When Samuel came to Saul, Saul said unto him, "May thou be blessed by Jehovah! I have kept the word of Yahweh."
The asses of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. Kish said unto Saul his son, "Take now one of the servants with you, and arise, go look for the donkeys."
And David came to Ziklag, and sent of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his friends, (saying, Behold, for you a blessing, of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah),'
by faith a better sacrifice did Abel offer unto God than Cain, through which he was testified to be righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and through it, he were dead, doth yet speak.
namely, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivite, that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-hermon unto the entrance of Hamath.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, entered in thither, took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood at the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were girded with weapons of war.
Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance; But the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb,
Wherefore (as the Holy Spirit said, To-day if ye will hear his voice,
Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "Why have thou disquieted me by bringing me up?" And Saul said, "I am in there is For the Philistines are about to make war against me, but God is turned away from me, and he doeth not answer me any more, not by the prophets or by the dreams. So I called unto you to let me know what I should do."
"Wake up, wake, Deborah! Awake, awake, sing a song: Arise, Barak! Take captive your captives, O son of Abinoam.
And when David's young men came, they said all this to Nabal, in David's name, and told no more.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich. He bringeth low, he also lifteth up.
And Saul encamped in the mount of Hachilah, which is in front of the wilderness in the way; But David was in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul was coming after him.
concerning zeal, persecuted the assembly; concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless.
And the Philistines fight, and Israel is smitten, and they fled every man to his tents, and the blow is great, and there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen;
And he said unto her, If they only put round about me new bands which have not been used for; then I will faint and shall be as any other man.
And when he came back he said unto his father and mother, I have seen a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines: get her now for me to wife.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Jesus:
So then be gracious unto thy servant; for thou hast been joined with thy servant in a covenant made before Jehovah; But if there be any sin, in me, kill me, thyself; why take me unto thy father?
And the boil took up the thigh with the fat tail, upon it, and put it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the part which hath been kept for you; take it as your part of the feast; because it hath been kept for you till the right time came and until they that were bidden were present. So that day Saul took bread with Samuel.
For when God made a promise unto Abraham, since he had no one greater to swear by, he sware by himself,
And he took them to the king of Moab and they dwelt with him while David was in his fortress.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness for us; for after he had said,
and they took two of the heads of Midian, Oreb: and Zeeb; Yea, slay Oreb at the rock of Oreb: and Zeeb they have slain at the wine-vat of Zeeb; Yea, they pursue unto Midian: and the heads of Oreb and Zeeb they have brought unto Gideon beyond the Jordan.
And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant from the day that I have been before thee unto this day, that I go not in and have fought against the enemies of my lord the king?'
While it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, be ye not your hearts in the provocation.
And as they were going down at the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, "Tell the servant to go before of us." And he went before, then Samuel said, "But stand still first, that I may cause thee to hear God's message."
and the Spirit of Jehovah is upon him, and he judgeth Israel, and went out to battle, and Jehovah delivered unto his hand Chushan-Rishathaim king of Syria, and strong is his hand against Chushan-Rishathaim;
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by entered into a city that hath gates and bars thereof.
So that we say with a good heart, The Lord is my helper: I will not fear: What can man do unto me?
Behold, brethren, lest there shall be in any of you an evil heart their unbelief in the falling away from the living God,
But Christ as a son, over his house; whose house are we, if we keep our heart is set in the glad and certain hope until the end.
Whithersoever they went out the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had said, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them; and they were afraid.
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing of him in their dances, saying, Saul is put to death thousands, and David ten thousands?
Look to dogs, see to evil husbandmen, see to the concision.
So that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of them in heaven and the other on earth and them in the pit,
And Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people set him over them for head and for captain, and Jephthah spake all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
For this Melchizedek king of Salem priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham as he returned from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
As I sware in mine anger, 'They shall in no wise enter into my rest.'"
And I said, I am Jehovah your God, fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell. And ye would not hear my voice.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, "None of us shall go to his tent, neither shall any of us turn to his house.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept bitterly.
From thence they passed over to the hill-country of Ephraim, and they came to the house of Micah.
And Eli saith unto Samuel, Go, lie down, and it shall be, if he will call unto thee, that thou hast said, Speak, Jehovah, for thy servant is hearing;' and Samuel goeth and lay down in his stead.
For every one that greeting partaketh of milk rude in the word of righteousness, for he is a away childish things.
And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine, to fight with him; for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth.
And the men of Ephraim are called together, and pass over northward, and say unto Jephthah, Why hath thou passed over to fight against the children of Ammon, and upon us hast not called to go with thee? thy house we burn upon thee with fire.'
Concerning which we have many things to write and it is hard to show thee; since thou art become sluggish in hearing.
But we see him that hath been made a little lower than God, Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for them all.
(for nothing did the law perfect) and the bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw nigh to God.
So having denied the men of Israel, they went by the way of the wilderness; but the fight overtake them; and they that came forth out of the city were heading them off and he shall put them to the sword.
Nevertheless they would not hearken unto their judges, but went after other gods and gave them worship; quickly turned aside out of the way which their fathers had gone, keeping the charge of Jehovah; but they did not do so.
And the cart shall enter into the field of Joshua the Beth-Shemeshite, and stood there, and there a great stone, and they cleave the wood of the cart, and the other kine they have caused for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
but into the second the high priest alone, once in the year, not without blood, which he offereth for himself and for the remnant of the people.
For if the priests are changed, ye ought to make a change in the law.
And Asher did not take the land of the people of Acco, or Sidon, or Ahlab, or Achzib, or Helbah, or Aphik, or Rehob, drive them out.
And the custom of the priests with the people it: any man offered sacrifice then hath the servant of the priest come in when the flesh is boiling, and the hook of three teeth in his hand,
Manoah said, "Now let your words come to pass. What shall the way of life and child's be?" course,
And Zebul said unto him, Where is now thy mouth wherewith thou saidst? Who is Abimelech that we should serve him? Is not this the people that thou didst despise? Get thee out, and fight against him.
Then they said, What sin-offering shall we send unto him? And they said, Five gold images of the growths caused by thy manner of disease and five gold mice, one for every lord of the Philistines: for the same plague was upon thee, and upon thy Lords.
And I also have said, I do not cast them out from before you, and they shall be unto you for adversaries, and their gods are to you for a snare.'
And ye shall not turn aside after the triviality, which have no value and cannot save; for they are triviality.
And the king said unto the guard that stood about him, "Turn, and kill the priests of Jehovah; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew that he fled, and didn't disclose it to me." But the servants of the king wouldn't put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
Therefore he also is able to save unto the uttermost them that draw nigh to God through him, when he saw that he liveth for ever to make intercession for them.
And he said, They were my brethren, my mother's sons: by the life of the Lord, if thou hadst kept them safe, I would not put thee to death.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
There was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was very great: and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he was fleece his sheep in Carmel.
And all Israel heard this report; Saul smote the garrison of the Philistines; and Israel took courage against the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and put themselves in array against Gibeah.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and went after the Philistines until they came under Beth-car.
And Eli heard the noise of the cry, and said, What have I the noise of this tumult!' And the man hasted, and came and showed Eli.
And the hand-part went in after the sickle; and the fat was joined up over the blade; for he did not take the sword out of his belly. And he went out into the thresholds.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floors.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field, unto the place agreed on with David, and a little child with him.
For God is not unrighteous, so as to forget thy work and the love which ye approved for his name by having served the saints, and continuing to serve them.
And they said, "If thou send away the ark of the God of Israel, don't send it empty; but by all means return a trespass-offering to him. Then shalt thou be healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand is not journeyed from you."
But, ye came unto mount Zion, and to a city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, and to ten thousands of messengers,
Then Jonathan said, My father hath made trouble come upon the land: now see how bright mine eyes have become because I have taken a little of this honey.
The whole assembly sent and spake unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, and proclaimed peace unto them.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you, that I also may be comforted; when I know your estate.
So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. But when the ark of God came to Ekron, the Ekronites cried out, saying, "They have brought round about the ark of the God of Israel to kill us and our people!"
Out of Ephraim their root against Amalek. After thee, Benjamin, among thy peoples. Out of Machir came down lawgivers, And out of Zebulun them that come with the reed of a writer.
because unto you is given, as touching Christ, not only the believe on him but the suffering for him also,
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, and he performed upon her the vow that he had vowed; and she had known no man. And it became a appointed custom in Israel,
And the children of Israel grieved for Benjamin, their brother, and said, "There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And Samuel said unto the roast Bring the portion that I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
Now to God our Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: 'I have observed what Amalek did to Israel, how he resisted him when he went up from Egypt.
So he passed through the hill-country of Ephraim; he passed through the land of Shalisha but they did not find them: They passed through the land of Shaalim but they were not there. And he passed through the land of Benjamin but found them not.
And David said, Truly in vain have I kept all that pertained to this man in the wilderness, and nothing was lost of all that pertaineth unto him: and he shall return me evil for good.
If thy father look and inquire for me, thou shalt say unto him, David asked me that he might run to Beth-lehem his own city: because there are solemn sacrifices there for all his tribe:
And they set an ambush against him on the top of the mountains; and while they waited for his coming they committed oppression, taking spoil of all that passed by; and it was told Abimelech;
And David said unto Ahimelech, And is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought forth my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste.
Samuel said unto Saul, "I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected Yahweh's word, and Jehovah hath rejected you from being king over Israel."
for certain when they heard did bless but not all that came out of Egypt through Moses;
Saul said unto him, "Whose son are you, ye young man?" David answered, "I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite."
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? because that the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of sins.
Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, "May Jehovah give you seed from this woman for the petition which was asked of Yahweh." Then they came to their own home.
And he asked water, she gave milk; In the nobles' bowl she brought forth cream.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
But the sons of Benjamin did not destroy the Jebusites they that dwelt in Jerusalem: and the Jebusite may dwell among the sons of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand to fetch victuals for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.
Salute every one that is godly in Christ Jesus. And the brethren that were with me salute you.
And he came to the pasture; which were in his way. And there was a cave, into which Saul went, to ease nature: now David and his men lay hid in the inner part of the cave.
Now there was a man in Maon, whose business was in Carmel, And the man was very rich and had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats. Now the fleece of his sheep was taking place in Carmel.
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, and said, Go, and hide themselves in the vineyards,
And he said unto them, "Follow after me! Jehovah hath given Moab thine enemies into thy hand." So they went down after him, and they took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab; and they did not suffer any one to pass over.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them: and Israel dwelt in all the land of the Amorites that sitteth above that land.
what then? in every way, whether under color or in truth, Christ is proclaimed and in this I rejoice, yea, and shall be glad.
And, lo, if they had been mindful of that from whence they came out, they had at least time to return.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear, and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them that shall be heirs of salvation?
So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
But he refused and said, "I will not eat!" howbeit his servants urged him, and the woman also. So he hearkened unto what they said, and he rose up from the ground, and sat on the bed.
For he was yet in the loins of his father when Melchizedek met him.
And it came to pass soon afterwards, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.
And the men of Israel went forth to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them at Gibeah.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And when she was very nigh death the women that were with her said, Fear not, for thou hast borne a son. But she made no answer and hearkened not to it.
And Saul said unto his servants, Then get me a man that is an expert player, and make him come unto me.
which is a parable of the time assembled: according to which gifts and sacrifices your oblations, which can not, as to the conscience, make him perfect that serveth, only in food and in drinketh,
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
By faith, Joseph, when his end was near, made mention after the children of the children of Israel; and gave charge concerning his bones.
And Jehovah called Samuel again, so Samuel arose, and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, because ye called me." And he said, "I did not call you, my son. Go back and lie down."
Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became subject to taskwork.
And the hand of the children of Israel ever advanced, and prevailed against Jabin king of Canaan, until they had cut off Jabin king of Canaan.
But Sisara fleeing came to the tent of Jahel the wife of Haber the Cinite, for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor, and the house of Haber the Cinite.
And as the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, the people wept bitterly.
After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite, judged Israel.
That afterward their children might learn to fight with their enemies, and to be skilful in war:
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron was standing before it to minister in those days; that thou saying, "Should we go out once more to battle against the children of Benjamin our kindred, or should we stop?" And Jehovah said, "Go up to-morrow: I will deliver them into your hand."
And ye have forgotten the exhortation which spake unto you as unto children, My son, despise not thou the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:
And he brought the tribe of Benjamin, and the families thereof, and the lot fell Upon the family of Metri, and it came to Saul the son of Cis. They sought him therefore and he was not found.
for they could not stand that which was commanded, "If even a beast toucheth the mountain, it shall be stoned";
Then Jonathan said, "Look, we are to pass over to the men; and we will show ourselves unto them.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness?
Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.
Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him.
For God, having promised unto Abraham, since he had no greater to swear by, sware by himself,
and have tasted the good word of God, and mighty works of world to come
and Hannah, she is speaking unto her heart, only her lips are removing, and her voice is not heard, and Eli thought her to be drunken;
And he stood, and cried unto the flocks of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set in array war? not I the Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man, and let him come down unto me;
Now David was the son of an Ephrathite. This man was from Bethlehem of Judah, and his name was Jesse. He had eight sons; in the days of Saul, this man was old, yet he still walked among the men.
Then said Saul unto his servants that were there about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites: will the son of Jesse give to every one of you fields and vineyards, shall he make you all captains of hundreds and captains of thousands;
Then David put his hand into the bag and took a stone from it and slung it; and he smote the Philistine, on his forehead, and the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the ground.
Then they went through the wilderness, went about the land of Edom, and Moab, and came to the east side of the land of Moab, and they encamped beyond the the Arnon, and they did not go into the border of Moab because the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Now therefore cry in the ears of the people, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return and depart from mount Gilead.'" So twenty and two thousand of the people returned, and ten thousand remained.
The woman saith unto him, "Behold, ye know what Saul is done, how he hath cut off them that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land. Why then do ye lay a snare for my life, to cause me to die?"
Then she brought him up with her when she had weaned him about, and three bullocks, a ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine. And she brought him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh while the child was yet young.
For we are become companions of Christ if so be that we hold the beginning of the assurance firm unto the end:
They were stoned, they were cut asunder, they were tempted, they were put to death by the sword, they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, being in want, distressed: afflicted:
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men, that same day together.
and the Amorite is desirous to dwell in mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, and the hand of the house of Joseph is heavy, and they become subject to taskwork.
And it was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered into thy hand the host of Midian.
If he saith 'Good,' it shall mean peace for thy servant; but if he is very wroth, know that he hath purposed to do me harm.
But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and the evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
and behold, I send the youth; Go, find the arrows; If I at all say to the youth, Behold, the arrows on this side of thee, take them, then come thou, for peace for thee, and there is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
For there are both of whom I have given you word before, and do so now with sorrow, that rebel against the cross of Christ;
For if that first covenant had been faultless, occasion should not have been sought for a second.
The ambushment was sitting in wait for her in an inner chamber. And she said unto him, "The Philistines are upon you Samson!" And he snapped the bowstrings even as flax fiber snaps when it cometh fast by fire. And the mystery of his strength remained unknown.
And he answered and said, I pray thee, my lord, wherewith shall I deliver Israel? Behold, my family is the meanest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah shall press upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them; and thou shalt turn into a different person.
Is this the first time I have seek God for him? Far be the thought! let the king make no such accusation against his servant or my father's family, for thy servant hath no knowledge, great or small, of this thing.
And the king said, Enquire thou whose son the young is.
And the king of the children of Ammon answer the messengers of Jephthah, "Because Israel took away my land, when he came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and to the Jordan. Now therefore restore that border again peaceably."
And Barac said unto her, If thou wilt come with me, I will go: if thou wilt not come with me, I will not go.
That first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were half a furrow's length in an acre of land.
Then said he unto all Israel, Thou be on the one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do all that is good in thine eyes.
Yet once' and this shall make manifest the captivity of the things shaken, as of things having been made, that the things which are not shaken may be stayed:
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekites: for the people have kept the best of the sheep and of the oxen as an oblation unto Jehovah your God; all the rest we have destroyed.
And the ambush arose quickly and well stricken against Gibeah, and it put the whole city to the sword.
let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he that promised is faithful.
But Yahweh's hand was heavy upon the inhabitants of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with emerods, and even Ashdod, and the borders thereof;
The one point rose up on the north in front of Michmash, and the other on the south in front of Gibeon.
nothing in the spirit of strife or vain glory, but, in lowliness of mind, each thought upon the other as more value than themselves;
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child a father, he hath served with me in the work of the gospel.
Gilead abode beyond the Jordan; and why did Dan abide in ships? Asher continued on the sea-shore, and abode in his breaches.
And they found Adoni-zedek and fought against him; and they smote the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
Gideon went in and prepared a kid and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal; he put the food in a basket and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out to him under the oak, and presented it.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel, and the children of Israel destroy in Benjamin, on that day, twenty and five thousand, and a hundred men; all these drew sword.
And endureth the chiefs that stood by, and was the chief of the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse, in Nobe with Abimelech the son of Ahitub, the priest.
But see how great this man was, to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth from the spoils!
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons, unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect, through sorrows;
How much worse punishment think ye the soul shall be counted worthy of that doeth presumptuously, snuffed the Son of God and who accounteth ordinary the blood of the covenant, by which he was made holy and who putteth the Spirit of grace?
And Abimelech was chief over Israel for three years.
Then she said unto her servants, "Go before before me; behold, I am come after you," but she did not tell her husband Nabal.
How much more, if the people had eaten freely this day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for would there not now have been a much greater slaughter among the Philistines?
Will the men of Keilah, deliver me into his hands? and will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And Abigail hasted, and arose and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of hers that went after her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife;
They were stoned, they were sawed in two, they died by murder with a sword, they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, beaten down, afflicted, mistreated,
Then saith he to the messengers that was come, Speak unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow by the time the sun is high, thou shalt be made safe. And the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
And by faith Rahab the harlot did not perish with the unbelieving, having received the spies in peace.
they shall perish, but thou continue, and they all shall wax old like a garment;
And Samson lay till midnight; and he arose at midnight, and laid hold on the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts thereof, and rent them up with the frame. and put upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that lieth before Hebron.
But the hair of his head began to grow back after that it was shaved off.
And Gideon sent messengers throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, come down against Midian, and take before them the waters unto Bethbarah and Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto Bethbarah and the Jordan.
And when they had told Saul, saying, Behold, the people are sinning against Jehovah, to eat with the blood.' And he said, Ye have dealt treacherously, roll unto me this day a great stone.'
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be changed into another man.
Therefore, since the children portion in flesh and blood, he also in like manner the joy in these same, that through death he might destroy the one that hath the power of death, that is, the devil,
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church will I sing praises unto thee.
Then Samuel said unto all Israel, If with all your hearts ye would return unto Jehovah, then put away all the foreign gods and the Astartes from the midst of thee, and let your heart be turned unto Jehovah, and serve him, only: and he will make thee out of the hand of the Philistines.
And Saul took him out of him, and made him his equal to a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
And Abimelech arose, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they lay wait against Shechem worth four detachments;
And as they went down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Bid the servant pass over before us (and he passed on), but stand thou still a while, that I may show thee the word of God.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. And the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more [as before].
Jehovah visited Hannah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: the child Samuel waxed before Jehovah.
But that which bringeth forth thorns and briers; is reprobate, and very near unto a curse, whose end is to be burnt.
Then Gilead took the fords of the Jordan from Ephraim, and when a fugitive of Ephraim said, "Let me cross over," the men of Gilead said unto him, "Are you an Ephraimite?" When he said, "No,"
For God is not unrighteous, that he should forget thy work, and the love which thou hast showed in his name, ye that have minister, and do minister unto the saints.
and the haft also went in after the sickle; and the fat shutteth on the sickle; that he hath not drawn the sword out of his belly, and it went out at the fundament.
For verily by the living Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath delivered me from harm you, if ye had not been so hasty in came unto me, and meeting me, by dawn there should not have been in Nabal's house so much as one male of the living.
He had two wives: the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the second was Peninnah. Now Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
And when he saw her, he rent his clothes, and said, Alas! my daughter, thou hast beguiled me, and thou thyself art led astray: for I have opened my mouth to Jehovah, and I can do no other thing.
And again, I will take refuge in him. And again, Behold, I and the children whom God hath given me.
only let your behavior be (which becometh the gospel of Christ; that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, to hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one accord striving together for the faith of the gospel;
After a time the children of Ammon made war with Israel.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, thy servant shall hear tidings, that Saul designeth to come to Ceila, to destroy the city for my sake.
and the Spirit of Jehovah hath clothed Gideon, and he blew the trumpet, and Abiezer is called after him;
Hath at the end of the days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;
And the ark was in Kiriath-jearim for a long time, as much as twenty years: and all Israel seeketh after the Lord with weeping,
So the man, the master of the house went out unto them, and said, No, my brethren, do not this evil thing; this man is come into my house, and ye are not to do him this wrong.
So that as it is evident that some have to go in, and that the first hearers of the gospel were not able to go in because they went against God's commandments,
And the king sent to call Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, the priest, and all the house of his father, the priests, that in Nob, and they come all of them unto the king;
And they sat and eat both of them together, and drink, and the father of the damsel, said unto the man, Be willing, I pray thee, and tarried all night, and let thy heart be glad.'
Because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, laying his life in danger to make your care for me made full.
And it came to pass from the day of the dwelling of the ark in Kiriath-jearim; that the days are multiplied yea, they are twenty years old, and wail do all the house of Israel after Jehovah.
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech with guile, saying, Behold, Gaal son of Ebed and his brethren are coming into Shechem, and behold, they are fortifying the city against thee;
And not while I am yet alive, wilt thou not show the lovingkindness of Jehovah with me, that I may not die?
Above, saying Sacrifices and offerings and burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin thou willedst not, neither tookest pleasure in (which are offered according to the law);
yea verily, and I count all things to be a loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and count them nothing but refuse to let them go, that I might gain Christ
Now I say, I will not drive them out from before thee; they shall become as thorns for you, and their gods shall be a snare for you."
For Christ entered not into a holy place which had been made by men's hands as the copy of the true one; but he went into heaven itself, and now taketh his place before the face of God for us.
Though I have trust even in the flesh: if any other think to trust in flesh, I near,
But the people hearkened not unto the voice of Samuel: and they said, No, but we will have a king over us,
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah,
and I have declared to him that I judge his house for ever: for the iniquity that he hath known, for his sons are making themselves vile, and he hath not restrained them,
And he said unto him, God forbid: thou shalt not be put to death: behold, my father doeth nothing, great or small, without tell me, it: would he keep this secret from me? It is not so.
And when Abigail saw David she made haste, and alighted from the ass, and fell down before David, on her face, and worshipped upon the ground.
and Jesse saith unto David his son, Take now to thy brethren, an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren;
So I said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be a snare unto you, and their gods will be overthrown unto you.
But Saul, heard that David had gone to Gath, went after him no more.
By faith, Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go forth to the place which he was to receive for an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he went.
And David went forth; whithersoever Saul sent him he prospered; and Saul set him over the men of war; and he was acceptable in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
His mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words. Their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech; for they said, "He is our brother."
Who needeth not daily (as the other priests) to offer sacrifices first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, in offering himself.
Now Jonathan answered Saul: He asked leave of me earnestly to go to Beth-lehem,
And Gideon the son of Joash returned from battle before the sun was up,
Now David had said, "Surely in vain I guarded all that this fellow had in the wilderness. And nothing was want of all that was his, but he returned evil against me in place of good.
Then Jesse made Shammah pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this one.
For every house is builded by some, man; but he that built all things is God.
So when David and his men came to the city, and found it burned with fire, and that their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were taken away captive,
but as unto the Son, Thy throne, O God, his lovingkindness of the world; and a sceptre of uprightness the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot. And Saul and Jonathan were taken: but the people escaped.
And all the people likewise each cut down his bough, and followed Abimelech, and put them at the base of the stronghold, and set the stronghold on fire upon them; so that all the people of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And the custom of the priests with the people was that, when any man offered a sacrifice, the priest's servant came while the flesh was boiling, with a parting of three teeth in his hand;
Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, that mind earthly things.)
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, "The troops that are with you are too many for me to give Midian into their hands; Israel shall glory; saying, 'My hand hath delivered me.'
Where Jesus is gone before us, as a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my laws into their heart, and in their minds will I write them;
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to preach the gospel in the houses of their idols, and to the people.
And he showed them the entrance into the city, and they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let the man and all his family go.
Then Ehud, came in unto him as he was sitting by himself in his summer-house. And Ehud, said, I have a word from God for you. And he rose up from his seat:
Now therefore consider what ye go to do; for evil is in store for our master and all his house; for he is such a base fellow, which it is not lawful to say aught unto him.
And it was told Abimelech that all the men of the tower of Shechem had gathered together.
We raided the south of the Cherethites and that which belongeth to Judah and then the South of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag, with fire."
Take strong and of good men, ye Philistines, lest thou end up serving the Hebrews even as they have served thee: be thou men and fight!"
And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was come into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, and the earth rang again.
Not that forsake our assembly, as some are accustomed; but encouraging one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching.
to the captain of the guard assembly and assembly of the first-born that are reckoned in heaven, unto God the Judge of all, to the spirits of righteous men perfected;
Let us then, though we have yet God's word that we may come into his rest, go in fear that some of you may be not able to do so.
For there is an annulling of a foregoing commandment because of its weakness, and uselessness
And in this place again, If they shall enter into my rest.
For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: although the works were made an end of from the foundation of the world.
For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is necessary that he also should have something to offer.
Adoni-bezek said, "Seventy kings with their thumb and great toes cut off used to take up scraps under my table. even as I have done, so God hath recompensed unto me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
Wherefore, O king, when thou wouldest come down, come down, and it shall be for us to deliver him into the hand of the king."
and more abundantly do I beseech to do this, that more quickly I may be granted unto you.
the things which also ye did learn, and receive, and hear, and saw in me, Those do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
Now it came to pass on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side. But he told not his father.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And the man, the master of the house went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, I pray you, do not wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this villany.
Wherefore all the children of Israel came to the house of God, and sat and wept before Jehovah: and they fasted that day until the even; and offered unto him burnt-offerings and peace-offerings unto Jehovah;
And though I am offered like a drink-offering, giving myself for the cause and work of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all:
But David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah; how much more then if we go to Keilah against the hosts of the Philistines?
(For where [there is] a covenant, the death of the testator must needs come in.
for he that did enter into his rest, he also had rest from his works, as God from his own.
And as for the asses, which were lost three days ago, be not careful because they are found. And for whom shall be all the chief things of Israel? Shall they not be for thee and for all thy father's house?
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech privily, saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren are come to Shechem; and, behold, they fortify the city against thee.
And all Israel heard say, Saul is smitten the garrison of the Philistines, and Israel also is become odious to the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be cleansed with sacrifice nor oblation for ever.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even; and the man was of the hill-country of Ephraim, and he sojourned in Gibeah: but the men of the place were of the sons of Benjamin.
Because ye didn't obey Yahweh's voice, and didn't execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore Jehovah hath done this thing unto you this day.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah and set it upon the wagon with the gold vessels that thou art returning to him as a trespass-offering. Thou lay them in the vessel beside the ark and then send it off that it may be away.
a servant of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah pitched, not man.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your afflictions and your tribulations; and ye shall say unto him, Nay, but set a king over us; now therefore present yourselves in the sight of Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
And he took the honey in his hand, and went on, he tasted it in the way; and when he came to his father and his mother he gave some unto them; but said not that he had taken the honey out of the body of the lion.
And they say unto him, Ask we pray thee, at God, and we know whether our way is prosperous on which we are going.'
But he refused and said, I will not eat. And his servants, and the woman also, compelled him, and he hearkened unto their voice; and he arose from the earth and sat on the bed.
Because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life to supply your lack of service toward me.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb as Moses said, and he cast out thence the three sons of Anak.
And Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon,
But if I dwell in the flesh--if this is the fruit of my work--then I do not see what judgment to make it.
David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel, and they both became his wives.
Neither did they show mercy unto the house of Jerobaal Gideoni, according to all the good things he had done to Israel.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then give me a sign that it is ye that are talked with me.
They shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, 'Know the Lord,' for all shall know me, from the least of them unto the greatest.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus hath Micah done unto me; and he hired also me, and I am to him for a priest.'
And the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah which he sent unto him,
Hast not thou possess that which Chemosh is thy God giveth thee to possess? So whomsoever Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, them will we possess.
And David answered and said, Behold, the king's spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Then Zebul said unto him, "Now where is thy mouth, that thou saidst, 'Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him?' Isn't this the people that thou hast destroyed; and I pray thee, go forth now and fight with them."
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, This is the man of whom I gave you speech. he it is that is to have authority over my people.
But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for he hath prepared a city for them.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah delivered the Canaanite, and the Perizzite into their hands: and they smote of them in Bezec ten thousand men.
And when he was gone out, the servants of the came and saw, and, behold, the doors of the upper-chamber were bolted. And they said, Surely he covereth his feet in the summer chamber.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, always do they go astray in heart; and they have not known my ways;
and over it cherubim of the glory, overshadowing the mercy-seat, concerning which we are not now to speak particularly.
And David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters were taken captives.
Shall I then take away my bread, my water, and my food that I have killed for my sheep-shearers; and give it unto men that I don't know where they come from?"
But, brethren, take kindly the words that I have spoken for your own profit; for I have not sent you a long letter.
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was builded.
And Jehovah said unto him, "Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man."
And turning away from him to one of the other men, he said the same words: and the people gave him the same manner.
Then Gideon said unto God, If ye go to give Israel salvation by my hand, as thou hast said,
and I have raised up for me a sure priest; as in my heart and in my soul shall he do: and I have built for him a sure house, and he hath walked up and down before mine anointed all the days;
His lord said unto him, I will not go into the city of another nation, that are not of the children of Israel, but I will pass over to the hill:
And David departed thence, and escaped alone to the cave of Adullam. And his brethren and all his father's house heard it, and they went down thither unto him.
And David went thence to Mizpeh of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with you, till I know what God will do for me.
But the hair of his head began to grow after he was cut off.
and shall we consider one another to provoke to love and to good works,
And Sihon would not trust Israel to pass through his borders, so Sihon gathered all his people and then encamped at Jahaz. and he made war with Israel.
The hand of the Midianites prevailed over Israel; because of the presence of the Midianites, the children of Israel made them secret places that were in the mountains, in the caves and strongholds.
But I have all, and exceedingly: I am filled, they received of Epaphroditus the things thou didst send, even a sweet savor an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing unto God.
If therefore ye have done that which is true and righteous to Jerubbaal and his family this day, may ye have joy in Abimelech, and may he have joy in thee;
but thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever, no, not when Jehovah shall cut off the enemies of David, every one from the face of the earth.
to them that were in Hormah, to them that were in Borashan, to them that were in Athach,
Then Jerub-Baal (the same is Gideon) rose up early, and all the host that was with him. And they were encamped beside the fountain of Harod; the camp of Midian was on the north of the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
And they on the seventh day before the sun went down said unto him, What is sweeter than honey? and what is stronger than a lioness, And he said unto them, If ye had neither plowed with my heifer, thou hadst not found out my riddle.
But to thy heart, the former days, wherein, being illuminated, ye endured a great fight of affliction;
And Samuel did as Jehovah said and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came out to him in fear and said, Do ye come in peace?
And the rulers ceased in Israel. And they ceased until I, Deborah arose; Until I arose a mother in Israel.
Now these things being thus after the same manner into the first tabernacle the priests indeed always entered, have performed the officers of sacrifices.
and Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, "Allow me to feel the pillars whereupon the house resteth that I may lean upon them."
But when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, Jehovah raised them up a deliverer; Ehud, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man lefthanded: and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon, the king of Moab.
And Ehud, made him a sword having two ends thereof, it was of a cubit length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right thigh.
And the men of David say unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will give thine enemy into thy hand, and thou shalt do to him as it is good in thine eyes;' And David arose, and cut off the skirt of the robe which on gently. Saul.
Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he fear;
And they stand every one in his place, round about the camp, and all the camp runneth, and they shout, and flee,
But Midian: humbled before the children of Israel, neither could they any more lift up their beads: but the land had rest for forty years, while Gedeon presided.
Now while she was going down under the lee of the mountain on her ass, David and his men came down against her, and suddenly she came to meet them.
And Jehovah said unto Gedeon: By the three hundred men, that lapped water, I will save you, and deliver Midian into thy hand: but let all the rest of the people return to their place.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in obey the voice of the Lord? behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and hearken than the fat of rams.
According to the law, well everything is cleansed with blood, and besides shed blood there is no remission.
and so, having patiently endured: he did obtain promise.
And they sat down, and did eat and drink, both of them together. And the damsel's father said unto the man, Be pleased, I pray thee, and pass the night, and let thy heart be glad.
And Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And after him was Shamgar son of Beth-anath, and he smote the Philistines six hundred men with an ox-goad, and he saved them by he also Israel.
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took dough, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof;
Wherein God, meaning more abundantly to show unto the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, interposed an oath,
And when he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Matri was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken. And when they sought him, he could not be found.
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Sechu: and he asked him, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they be at Naioth in Ramah:
And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said unto Saul, Tell the servant to pass on before us (and he passed on), but stand thou still now, that I may cause thee to hear the word of God.
The men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to smite and kill of the men of Israel about thirty and ten persons; for they said, "Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle."
And Saul said unto his servant, And, behold, we go, and what shall we bring in to the man? for the bread is gone from our vessels, and a present there is not to bring in to the man of God what with us?'
according to zeal persecuted the solemn assembly, according to righteousness that is in law being blameless!
Now on the morrow, when the Philistines came to take the spoil of the dead, they saw Saul and his three sons dead upon the earth in mount Gilboa.
And the Spirit of Jehovah rushed upon him, and he rent the lion apart as one might tear a male kid of the goats (he was bare-handed). But he did not tell his father and his mother what he had done.
Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up unto Mizpah.) And the children of Israel said, Make known how this evil thing came to pass.
And Saul said unto his servants, Appoint for me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
For it is testified, "You art a priest for ever according to the ordinance of Melchizedek."
Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and he took the city and slew the souls that were therein; then he brake down the city and sowed it with salt.
And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the host; for the host was secure.
The Lord judge between me and thee, and the Lord avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Having therefore a great high priest that hath passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God; let us hold fast our confession.
Saul said, "Listen please, son of Ahitub." And he said, "Here I am, my lord."
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come to pass we may do thee honor?
Moreover as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against Jehovah in ceasing to pray for you; but I will instruct thee in the good and the right way.
For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices. Wherefore it is needful that the high priest also have somewhat to offer.
and Saul saw that he is committing a wisely, and is afraid of him,
and Jesse brought Shamma, and he said of him, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And the children of Dan set them up the graven graven image; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests for the tribe of the Danites until the time of the captivity of the land.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth; but Jehovah will smite him, or his day come that he hath died, or into battle he go down, and shall be devour
And Gilead's wife bare him sons; and his wife's sons grew up, and they thrust out Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a foreign woman.
And there was none to save; because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Bethrehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.
And it came to pass on that night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take the calf which to thy father, and the second bullock of seven years, and thou hast cast down the altar of Baal which to thy father, and the Asherah which by it thou shalt cut down,
and he brought near the present to Eglon; king of Moab, and Eglon, a very fat man.
but with whom was He grieved forty years, was it not with them that did sin, whose carcasses fell in the wilderness?
Consider and see all his lurking holes, wherein he was bid, and return unto me with the certainty of the thing, that I may go with you. And if be should even go down into the earth to hide himself, I will search him out in all the thousands of Judah.
Which had the golden censer; and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And after him, Abdon son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, judgeth Israel,
And the boil took up the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, that which is left! set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee since I said, I have called the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
And the children of Israel asked Jehovah (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
And he said unto them, "Thus and thus hath Micah dealt with me, and he hath hired me, and I am become his priest."
Israel was brought very low because of Midian: and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
When your fathers put me to the Lord, and saw my works forty years.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they plundered the threshing-floors.'
Then one of the people said unto him, Thy father made the people under an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that taketh any food this day. And the people were feeble, lacking food.
And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where was a cave, and Saul went in to cover his feet; and David and his men were abiding in the uttermost parts of the cave.
neither through blood of goats, and bullocks, but through his own blood, entered in once into the sanctuaries, eternal redemption having obtained;
So Jehovah sent Jerub-Baal and Bedan and Jephthah and Samuel. And he delivered you out of the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwelt safely.
let us approach with a perfect heart in the full assurance of faith, our hearts sprinkled clean from the evil conscience and our bodies, washed with pure water.
Delilah said unto Samson, "Look, thou hast mocked me and told me lies. I pray thee, tell me how ye can be bound."
not having my righteousness, which of law, but that which through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by the faith,
And Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh-gilead, and all the men of Jabesh say unto Nahash, Make with us a covenant, and we serve thee.'
And the children of Judah besieging Jerusalem; took it, and put it to the sword, and set the whole city on fire.
But unbelieving [it is] impossible to please other: for he that draweth near unto God must believe that he is, and he is a rewarder of them that seek him out.
So they passed over and went away, and the sun went down upon them beside Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
so that what ye can be proud of may increase in Christ Jesus because of me through my return again unto you.
In part, in being torn of angry words and persecution, in the sight of all men, and in part, in took counsel together with them that were smote in this way.
David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely; and Saul set him over the men of war. It was good in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
Make ye perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
I go forward to the mark, even the reward of the high purpose of God in Christ Jesus.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom saying, Let me now pass through thy land: but the king of Edom hearkened not unto them. And in like manner he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; so Israel dwelt in Kadesh.
And the people of Israel said one to another, Who shall be the first to lay siege against the children of Ammon? We will make him head over all Gilead.
According to the number of the provinces of the Philistines thou shalt make five golden emerods, and five golden mice: for the same plague was upon you all, and upon thy Lords. And thou shalt make the likeness of your emerods, and the likeness of the mice that have destroyed the land, and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel, to see if he will take off his hand from thee, and from thy gods, and from your land.
For unto Abraham God, having made promise, seeing He was able to swear by no greater, sweareth by himself,
And it was told Saul that David was at Naioth in Ramah:
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, "Yahweh is with you, ye mighty warrior."
And, so to speak, even Levi, he that receiveth tithes, hath paid tithes through Abraham.
But after a while, in the time of wheat harvest, Samson visited his wife with a young goat: And he said, "I will go in to my wife's room." But her father wouldn't suffer him to enter.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them into the hand of plunderers; and they plundered them, and he sold them into the hand of their enemies from all part. And they were not able to withstand their enemies any longer.
he again defines a certain day, this day, saying through David so long time afterward (as hath been said), "Today if ye will hear his voice, don't harden thy hearts."
And it came to pass, when the children of Ammon fought against Israel: that the elders of Gilead go to take Jephthah from the land of Tob;
since it had ought him many times to suffer from the foundation of the world, but now once, at the end of the ever and ever; for putting away of sin through his sacrifice, he hath been manifested,
So then behold, Here is the king thou hast chosen, for whom thou hast asked! Behold, Jehovah hath laid a king over you.
The gleaning of the people are saved, Jehovah hath fought among the mighty ones.
And the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim, so that Israel was very sorry.
Do I lack madmen, that thou hast brought this fellow to play the mad fellow in my presence? Should this fellow come into my house?"
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
For he that hath entered into his rest hath also himself had rest from his works, even as God did from his own works.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went in, and stood in the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die: because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the Asherah that was by it.
So Saul sent messengers to take David. And when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied and Samuel standing as chief over them, then the Spirit of God came upon Saul's messengers, and they also prophesied.
And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be a priest unto me, to go up to mine altar, to burn incense, and to bear an ephod before me: I gave unto thy father's house, all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel.
Saul was told, saying, "Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah."
And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned aside, but let it rather be healed.
And the chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen; that drew sword.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And the lords of Shechem set for him liers-in-wait on the top of the mountains, and they robbed all that passed by them along the way: and it was reported unto Abimelech;
The children of Benjamin sallied forth out of the gates of Gibeah. And meeting them made so great a slaughter of them, as to kill eighteen thousand men that drew the sword.
And the sons of Saul are Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchi-Shua; as to the name of his two daughters, the name of the first-born of Saul, and the name of the younger Michal;
"The bows of the mighty men are broken. They that stumbled are clothed with strength;
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, "Shall I go and smite these Philistines?" Jehovah said unto David, "Go smite the Philistines, and save Keilah."
and all the men of valor arise, and get thee all the night, and take the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burn them there,
Is it not wheat harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; that ye may perceive and see that thy wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, in asking you a king.
Hills flowed from the face of Jehovah, such a Sinai trembled at the From the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
And a man of the people answered and said, Thy father surely straitly sworn the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food and let the people are weary.'
and Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him, and Abimelech took the great slaughter weapon in his hand, and cut off a bough of the trees, and lift it up, and setteth on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen I have committed in haste, do ye like it.'
Nevertheless whereunto we are come, that we be of the same mind; let us also continue in the same rule.
partly, being uncovered to both reproaches and oppressions; and partly, become partakers with them that were treated so.
For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Judah: whereof tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
for God had provided something better for us, so that they would not be made perfect without us.
wherein God, more abundantly willing to show unto the heirs of the promise the immutability of his counsel, did interpose by an oath,
Jehovah killeth and restoreth alive, he bringeth down to Sheol and raiseth up.
By faith, Moses, when he was grown up, that refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
And when the burnt-offering was ended, Samuel came; and Saul went out to see him and to give him a blessing.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day and for ever.
among all this people seven hundred chosen men, bound of their right hand, each one of these slinging with a stone at the hair, and he shall not err.
There was also another young man of Beth-lehem-judah of the kindred thereof: and he was a Levite, and dwelt there.
For I have no one of the same mind who will sincerely have regard for your circumstances.
They that were full before have hired out themselves for bread: and the hungry are filled, so that the barren hath borne many; and she that had many children do languish.
Then the children of Ammon came together and put the battle in array in Gilead. And the children of Israel came together and put the battle in array in Mizpah.
Now the time came when Hannah, being with child, bare a son; and she called his name Samuel, and said, Because I made a prayer unto Jehovah for him.
But unbelieving it is impossible to please God. For he that cometh to God, must believe that he is, and is a rewarder to them that seek him.
So David tarried his servants with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went his way.
So Elkanah her husband would say unto her, "Hannah, why dost thou weep and why do ye not eat? And why are ye heartsick? Am I not better unto you than ten sons?"
Then the king said to Doeg, And thou shalt put the priests to death. And endureth turning on the priests and smote them, put to death that day fourscore and five men that took up the ephod.
And the Philistine, came near every morning and evening forty days.
Then the children of Israel said unto Samuel, "You must not cease from and cry unto Jehovah our God, that he will deliver us from the hand of the Philistines."
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast been foolish; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God which he commanded thee, for now had Jehovah established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
Adoni-Bezek said, "Seventy kings, having their thumb and their great toes cut off, scavenged under my table. As I have done, so God hath done unto me." And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
Now when Joshua had sent the people away, the children of Israel went every one to his inheritance to possess the land.
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan; and now restore it peaceably.
Then behold, an old man was coming from his work from the field in the evening, and the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and he was dwelling a sojourner in Gibeah. That the people of the place were children of Benjamin.)
and the princes of the Philistines were gathered together to sacrifice a great sacrifice to Dagon their gods, and to rejoice; and they say, Our god hath delivered into our hand Samson our enemy.'
Is not this David, who was called in their songs, when in the dance they said one to another, Saul is put to death thousands, and David ten thousands?
Thus if perfection was through the Levites, priesthood, for by it the people received the law, what further need is there for another priest to arise according to the ordinance of Melchizedek and not said to be according to the ordinance of Aaron?
But thee this day have rejected your God who always delivereth you from all your calamities and your distresses. Thou hast said unto him, 'No, but thou shalt appoint a king over us!' So then present yourselves in the sight of Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy clans."
if by any means I may have the reward of life from the dead.
After him Ibzan of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; howsoever let all thy desireth lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.
And it was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped: then he returned into the camp of Israel, and said, "Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered the army of Midian into your hand!"
For unto me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
And Jehovah turned unto him and said, Go in this even thy power; and thou hast saved Israel out of the hand of Midian should not I have sent thee.'
And they that strive with Jehovah shall be broken in pieces. He will thunder against them in the heavens; "Yahweh will judge the ends of the earth: He will give strength to his king, And exalt the horn of his anointed."
Seeing he had a longing desire after you all, and was distressed because ye had heard that he was sick;
By faith, we understand that the universe hath been framed by the word of God, that what is seen hath not been made out of things which are seen.
Samuel said, "Has Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in your obedience to Yahweh's voice? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
And the asses of Kish, father of Saul, are lost, and Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now with thee, one of the young men, and arise, go, seek the asses.'
And the moment he saw her, he rent his clothes, and said, "Ah! My daughter, thou hast made me to bow down and thou art become my trouble. I sware unto Jehovah, and I cannot take it back."
So Saul inquired of God, "Should I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel?" But he answered him in that day.
if thy father at all look after me, and thou hast said, David asked earnestly of me to run to Beth-lehem his city, for a sacrifice of the days there for all the house.
And there was no there lacked small or great, neither of their sons and their daughters, nor of the spoil, and whatsoever they had taken; David recovered all.
And Shaul died, and three of his sons, and his armorbearer, also all his men, on that day together.
And David said to Jonathan: Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I according to custom am wont to sit beside the king to eat: let me go then that I may be hid in the field until the evening of the third day.
And they said unto him, To bind thee we have come down to give thee into the hand of the Philistines.' And Samson saith unto them, Swear unto me, lest ye fall upon me yourselves.'
And when his servants had told David the words that Saul had said, the thing was right in the eyes of David to be the king's son in law.
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he should come to come, I will see thee.
Now therefore, if ye have dealt truly and sincerely in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and if ye have done unto him according to the worthy of his hands;
And there was in the midst of the city a high tower, whereunto both the men and the women were fled away together, and all the princes of the city, and having shut and strongly with its bars closed upon the gate, they stood upon the pinnacles of the tower to defend themselves.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice, howbeit yet did solemnly protest unto them, and showed them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.
For as long as the son of Jesse lives upon earth, thou shalt not be established nor thy kingdom. And now send and fetch him to me: for he must die:
And when the Philistine, looked, and beheld David, he despised him. for he was a young man, ruddy, and of a comely countenance.
And they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the cattle and the stuff before them.
And it came to pass soon afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
But they were false unto Jehovah their God, and he gave them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Jabin, king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, that made war against them.
And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I; for thou hast done good unto me, and I have rewarded thee with evil.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned against thee, because we have forsaken Jehovah our God, and have served Baal.
But Sihon trusted not Israel, to let him pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people, and they encamped in Jahzah; and he fought with Israel.
But Christ come hither and as a high priest of the good things to come. Through the greater and more perfect tent not made by hands, that is, not of this creation
After awhile, when their heart was merry, they said, "Call Samson and let him entertain us." And they called Samson from the prison, and he entertained them. And they made him stand between the pillars.
And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name:
And David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's head; and they went away, and no man saw it, and none knew it, and none awaked, for they were all asleep: for a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
And year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, and she kept away, nor her, so that Hannah gave herself up to weeping and would take no food.
Now therefore, go up by night, thou and the people that are with you, and lie in wait in the field.
On the morrow the people went out to the field; and it was reported to Abimelech
But Saul said nothing on that day, for he said, "Something happened unto him. He is not ceremonially clean; surely he is not clean."
And Samson lieth down until the midst of the night, and rose up in the midst of the night, and laid hold on the doors of the gate of the city, and on the two side-posts and he carried them captive with the frame. and put on his shoulders, and took them up to the top of the ascent, which is before Hebron.
And Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the without the camp in the beginning of the midst watch, they and they had but Which are set the watch, they and they blew the trumpets, and brake the flagons thereof, that were in their hands.
And David said unto Achish, If now I have found favor in thy sight, let me have a place in one of the lesser cities of your land, to be my dwelling-place: for it is not lawful for thy servant to dwell with you in the king's city.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
And there is a man of Benjamin, and his name Kish, son of Abiel, son of Zeror, son of Bechorath, son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, mighty men of valor,
And they said, There must be a possession for them of Benjamin that have escaped, that a tribe be not blotted out of Israel.
And by faith he dwelt in the land of promise as a stranger, living in tents with Isaac, and Jacob, the joint-heirs of the same promise.
Saul said, "Bring the burnt-offering unto me hither, and the peace offerings." he offered the burnt-offering.
And his father and his mother knew not that it was of the Lord, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines; for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the congregation unto Jehovah? For they had made a great oath concerning him, that came not up to the Lord to Mizpeh, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
I have heard that thou hast wool-cutters: now thy shepherds, have been with us, and we will do them no evil, and taken nothing of theirs while they were in Carmel.
When thou goest thou shalt come to an careless Ethiopians people, and the land is spread forth upon all sides; God hath given a place into your hands where there is no lack of anything that is on the earth."
For it waxed unto him; because of whom are all things, and through whom are all things, many sons to glory bringing. the Prince of their salvation through sufferings to make perfect,
I am able to do all things by him that enabled me.
Now the Lord had revealed to Samuel the day before Saul came, saying,
After saying, Ye would none of offerings, for burnt-offering, nor offerings for sin (which are made by the law, and ye had no pleasure in them,
And in this case mortal men receive tithes, but in that case it is testified, that he liveth.
And Jehovah smote Sisera, and all his chariots and all his army before Barak; and Sisera, alighted from his chariot and fled, and went on foot:
They were going up the ascent of the city when they found young women going out to draw water: They said unto them, "Is there the seer here?"
And when Saul and all Israel heard the words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and sore afraid.
And all that had known him time past, and it when he saw that he was with the prophets, and prophesied, said unto each other. What is this that hath befallen the son of Cis? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And having this confidence I know that I shall continue, And continue with you all, for your furtherance and joy of faith:
Then the trees said unto the fig tree, 'You, come rule over us.'
And David's young men turned their way, and went back, and came and told him according to all them words.
Yahweh's angel said unto Manoah, "Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware.
And David perceived that against him Saul plotteth the evil, and said to Abiathar the priest, Bring the ephod.'
Now therefore, don't let my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one taketh partridge in the mountains."
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and pour it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be equal to his heritage?
But on the fourth day arose early in the morning he desired to depart. But his father-in-law kept him, and said unto him, Oh taste first a little bread, and strengthen thy belly, and so thou shalt depart.
And the woman hath a calf of the stall, in the house, and she made haste, and slew it, and taketh flour, and kneaded it, and baketh unleavened bread
and are fallen away, crucifying for themselves [as they do] the Son of God; and making a show of it.
For in that which he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
and I trust in Jehovah that I myself also shall haste to come.
And when Samuel rose up early, to go to Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, that Saul was come to Carmel, and had set up for himself a triumphant vaulted place, and returning had passed on, and gone down to Gilgal. And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul was offering a burnt-offering unto Jehovah out of the choice of the spoil which he had brought from Amalek.
And by as much as this was not without an oath (for these on the one hand are become priests without an oath,
And by faith Rahab the harlot was not put to death with them that had gone against God's ordinances, because she had brought into her house in peace those sent to spy out the land.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, when Ehud, was dead.
But some one testified somewhere, saying, "What is man, that thou remember him, or the son of man, that thou visitest him?
The men of Kiriath-jearim came and brought up the ark of Jehovah, and they brought it to the house of Abinadab in Gibeah. they sanctified Eleazer his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
By faith, Enoch was taken away, so that he wouldn't see death, and he was not; for God interpreted, him. For he hath had testimony given to him that before his translation he had been well-pleasing unto God.
I prayed for this child; and Jehovah hath given me my petition which I asked of him.
Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no power to weep.
And delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and of all the enemies that afflicted you: and I cast them out at thy coming in, and gave you their land.
David behaved himself wisely in all his ways, and Jehovah was with him.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever; and the rod of thy kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
And all the inhabitants of Shechem and all Beth-millo came together, and went and made Abimelech their king, by the oak of the pillar in Shechem.
And when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob.
Therefore, if there be any comfort in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any affection and compassion,
And when Israel sowed seed, the Midianites, Amalekites, and the people of the east to come up against them.
(For those priests were made without an oath: but this with an oath by him that said unto him, Jehovah sware and will not repent: Thou art a priest for ever After the order of Melchisedec:)
and the one soldiers turneth the way of Beth-horon, and the one soldiers turneth the way of the border that looketh down upon the valley of the Zeboiim, toward the wilderness.
And the assembly sent thither twelve thousand men of the mighty and charged them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, and the women and the children.
far be it from me, by Jehovah, from putting forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah: Now therefore take, I pray thee, the spear which at under his head, and the cruse of water, and we go away.'
And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once, for he hath showed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
In a very little time he that cometh will come; he shall not be slow.
Then the children of Israel arose, and went up to Beth-el, and they inquired of God, saying, "Who will go up first for the battle against the children of Benjamin?" And Jehovah said, "Judah will go first."
Now where there is forgiveness of these things, there is no more oblation for sin.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Gideon; and at the sound of his horn all Abiezer came together after him.
And now I know that thou wilt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be built up in thy hand;
And they said, Arise, and let us go against Laish; for we have seen the land, and it is good: why do ye nothing? Be not slow to go in and possess the land for an inheritance.
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.
But I would have you brethren, know that the degree in which I have turned out rather to the furtherance of the gospel,
And there was no want by them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil nor anything that they had taken: David brought all back.
And Saul saw, and understood that Jehovah was with David. And Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil things from all this people.
And he gave back the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I have made the silver holy unto Jehovah from me for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, `Hearken to the voice of the people, to all that they say unto thee, for thee they have not rejected but me they have rejected from reigning over them.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, that had seen all the great works of Jehovah, that he did for Israel.
And Judah went up, and Jehovah gave the Canaanite, and the Perizzite, into their hand, and they smote ten thousand men at Bezek.
Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
All the saints salute thee, chiefly them that are of Caesar's house.
Manoah arose, and followed his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, "Are you the man that spake unto my wife?" And he said, "I am."
and Jesse took an ass with bread and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent by David his son to Saul.
And as they went up by the ascent to the city, they met maidens going forth to draw water: and they said unto them, Is the seer here?
And I will shoot three arrows near it, and will shoot as though I were exercising myself at a mark.
Therefore Saul drew near Samuel in the midst of the gate and said, "Please tell me, where is the house of the seer?"
and having been perfected; became to all them that obey him, Prince of eternal salvation;
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of them that violently plundered them, and into the hand of their enemies, round them, so that they were stand before them.
saying, Except blessing I shall bless thee, and in multiplying I shall multiply thee.
For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, forasmuch as he that hath builded the house hath more honor than the house.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in a wood.
He had a son named Saul, a specially well-favored young man; there was none better-looking among the children of Israel; he was taller by a head than any other of the people.
Now the phrase "yet once more" indicates the captivity of what is shaken, namely, things that have been created, that the things that are not shaken may remain.
And when Israel's wheat, and have the Midianites, and the Amalekite and the people of the east came up against them;
For the same cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me.
The five rulers of the Philistines saw it, and returned to Ekron that same day.
And by faith they went through the Red Sea as though it had been dry land, though the Egyptians were put to the worse before the water when they assayed to do the same.
Now there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim named Micah.
so that we do boldly say, The Lord to me a healer; and I will not be afraid; What man shall do to me.'
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honorable, whatsoever things are right, whatsoever things are pure: whatsoever things are acceptable; whatsoever things are commendable, if there be any excellency of mark and if aught praises, think about these things.
And it came to pass, when she thrust him daily with her words, and urged him, so that his soul was weary unto death.
But the people took of their goods, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which were put to the curse, to make an offering of them unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Grace be with you all.
If ye fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, nor rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then both ye and the king also that reigneth over ye shall continue following Jehovah your God.
So that all they that fell that day of Benjamin were five and twenty thousand men that drew the sword; all these, men of valor.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And the six hundred men took the priest, and the things we spake of before, and came to Lais to a people that was quiet and secure, and smote them with the edge of the sword; and the city was burnt with fire,
For where a covenant is, there must also of necessity, be the death of the testator.
And Jephthah judged Israel six years. And Jephthah the Gileadite died, and was buried in [one of] the cities of Gilead.
And Barak called together Zebulun and the land to Kedesh; and there went up at his feet ten thousand men; and Deborah went up with him.
Swear now therefore unto me by Jehovah, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that ye will not destroy my name out of my father's house."
Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kitron or Nahalol, so the Canaanites dwelt in the midst, and became subjected to taskwork.
And Micaiah saith unto him, Tarry with me, and be to me for a father and for a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver for the days, and a suit of garments, and thy sustenance;' and the Levite goeth it.
that night Jehovah said unto him, Take a bullock of thy father's, and another bullock of seven years, and thou shalt destroy the altar of Baal, which is thy father's: and cut down the Asherah that is about upon the altar.
And fell down at his feet, she said, Let the wrong be upon me, my lord, upon me: let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word unto you, and hear the words of thy servant.
Elkanah her husband said unto her, "Hannah, why dost thou weep? Why don't ye eat? Why is thy heart grieved? Am I not better unto you than ten sons?"
for of patience ye have need that the will of God having done, ye may receive the promise,
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim,
And he went from year to year in circuit to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all those places.
So Samuel told him all the words, and did not hide them from him. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do that which is good in his sight.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came rushing upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon and smote thirty men there, rent their garments from them, and gave it unto the men that had given the answer to his hard question. Then, full of wrath, he returned unto his father's house.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy word came to pass we may do thee honor?
Then one of the people answered and said, "Your father directly commanded the people with an oath, saying, 'Cursed is the man that eateth food today.'" And the people were faint.
And he took the people down to the water; and Jehovah said unto Gideon, Put on the one side by themselves all them that drink up the water with their tongue like a dog. and in like manner all them that go down upon their knees unto the water while drinking.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Give thanks unto our witness; we will certainly perform according to thy word.
Behold, the days come, and I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of the house of thy father, that an old man is not in thy house;
Therefore Saul commanded his servants, "Speak to David in secret, saying, 'Look, the king is pleased with you, and all his servants love thee. So then, become a son-in-law of the king.'"
And the idol of Michas remained with them all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh. In those days was there no king in Israel.
Nay but, as Jehovah, the God of Israel, liveth, who hath restrained me from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me; there had not been left to Nabal by the morning light any male.
Saul called all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
And when Gaal saw the people, he said unto Zebul, Behold, people are coming down from the tops of the mountains. And Zebul said unto him, Thou seest the shade of the mountains like men.
So then are ye any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab. Said he ever controversy with Israel, or did he ever make war against them?
And he left off prophesying, he went to the high place.
For we are become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm to the end:
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and unleavened wafers, or lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.
who, remaining in the form of God, didn't consider equality with God a thing to be grasped,
And David said, What have I now done? Is it not laid upon me?
And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me hither every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
Then he also went to Ramah: And when he came to the great pit which was in Secu, he asked him, and said, "Where are Samuel and David?" And one said, "Look they are in Naioth in Ramah."
Did they not sped? have they not divided the prey; to every man a damsel or two; to Sisera, as a prey of divers colors, a prey of divers colors of tapestry, of divers colors wrought garments, in the one curtain, meet for the necks of them that take the spoil?
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins that had known no man by lying with any male: and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Jehovah, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou marchedst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, the clouds also dropped rain water.
Yahweh's angel said unto him, "Why askest thou about my name, since it is incomprehensible?"
But unto Anna he gave one portion with sorrow, because he loved Anna. And Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Having our countenance stedfastly on Jesus, the guide and end of our faith, that went through the pangs of the cross, not visited the shame, because of the joy which was before him, and who hath now taken his place at the right hand of God's seat of power.
And the Spirit of Jehovah went forth from Saul, and the evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
And Ehud, went out the vestibule, and he shut up the doors of the upper chamber and shut them behind him.
Therefore Saul said, "Come here, all ye principal of the people, so that we find out what the sin was this day.
Behold, this day thine eyes saw, that Jehovah hath delivered thee into my hand, in the cave, and I had a thought to kill thee, but mine eye hath spared thee. For I said, I will not put out my hand against my lord, because he is the Lord's anointed.
And Samuel judgeth Israel all the days of his life;
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines had invaded the land.
And there was great fear in the tents and in the field, and among all the men of the armed host; and the pursuers were shaking with fear; even the earth was moved with a great shaking and there was a fear as from God.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain which cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is tilled, receiveth blessing from God.
This thing is not good which thou hast done. As Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept thy master, Jehovah's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his head.
Now the Philistines gathering together their troops to battle, assembled at Soco of Judah, and encamped between Socoh, and Azekah, in the borders of Dommim.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment befall thee for this thing.
And Samuel rose up and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul mustered the people that are found with him, about six hundred men,
And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines! And he bowed himself with might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than those whom he had slain in his life.
And Samuel told the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote it in the book, and laid it before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.
But we are persuaded concerning you, beloved, better things, and knit together with salvation, even if we speak after that.
but if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the citizens of Shechem and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the citizens of Shechem and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech;
and having confidence of this, I know that I shall remain and abide with you all, for thy progress and joy in faith;
then he shall go forth; and his servants are come in, and looked, and, behold, the doors of the upper chamber are bolted, and they say, He is only covering his feet in the inner chamber of the wall.'
And after a few days David rose up, and went with the men that were under him, and he slew of the Philistines two hundred men, and brought their foreskins and numbered them out unto the king, that he might be his son in law. Saul therefore gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And as for me, never will I go against the commandments of Jehovah by giving up my prayers for you; but I will go on teaching you the good and right way.
And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David have gotten out of his presence twice.
God hath delivered into thy hand the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb! What was I able to do to be compared unto you?" Then their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that.
Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel and that they were lying with the women that stood at the door of the tent of meeting.
And having a great priest over the house of God,
Then Eli answered and said, "Go in peace, and the God of Israel grant thy request that thou hast asked of him."
David smote them from the twilight even to the evening of the morrow. not a man of them escaped from thence, except four hundred young men, that rode upon camels and fled.
I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
For let this mind be in you which also in Christ Jesus:
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, younger brother of Caleb, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And embraced the man: and the son-in-law tarried in the house of his father-in-law three days, eating and drinking familiarly. with him
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and give it unto thy neighbor that is better than thee.
So the Philistines were tamed, and they stopped coming within the border of Israel. Yahweh's hand was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And he went through the hill-country of Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they found not; and they passed through the land of Shaalim, and they were not there: and they passed through the land of Benjamin, and they found not.
And they came unto their brethren to Zorah, and Eshtaol: and their brethren said unto them, What say ye?
Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, even as many as had not known all the Wars of Canaan;
And he numbered them in Bezek, and the children of Israel are three hundred thousand and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And Micaiah said unto him, "Stay with me, and be my father and a priest, and I will give thee ten pieces of silver a year, a set of clothes, and your food." So the Levite went with him.
We will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand to bring provision unto the people, to recompense them when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin for all the folly things they did in Israel."
And Samuel said, Why do ye put your questions unto me, seeing that God is gone away from you, and is on the side of him that is against thee?
And the children of Benjamin thought, "They are being put to the worse before us, as previously," and the children of Israel said, "Let us flee and lure them away from the city to the house, to roads."
of the hospitality be not forgetful, for through this unwittingly certain did entertain messengers;
Now Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, judged Israel at that time.
A son of a year Saul when he began to reign; and he reigned two years over Israel,
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
And: Thou in the beginning, O Jehovah, didst found the earth; and the works of thy hands are the heavens.
"Through the window she looked down; the mother of Sisera, cried out through the lattice; 'Why is his chariot delayed in coming? Why do the hoof beats of his chariot tarry?'
For behold, he doth not take you on the life of angels, but that of the seed of Abraham.
And Saul sent to Jesse saying, Let David be with me, for he is acceptable to me.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice. Howbeit thou shalt did solemnly protest unto them, and shalt show them the way of the king that will reign over them."
And the Philistines laid hold on him, gouged his eyes, and brought him to Gaza. They bound him in brazen shackles, and he became a grinder in the prison.
Now the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to Bochim. And he said, king's entry without, I brought you out of Egypt, and will bring thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, My covenant with ye shall not be broken by me:
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord persecute his servant? What have I done? or what evil is there in my hand?
And Saul said, Cast between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
Thou hast not yet withstood into blood, strove against sin;
And he took Agag the king of Amalek alive: but all the common people he slew with the edge of the sword.
Samuel said, "Even though thou art small in your own eyes, are ye not the head of the tribes of Israel? Jehovah hath anointed thee king over Israel.
All the most valiant men arose, and went all the night, and took the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, from the wall of Bethsan: and they came to Jabesh-gilead, and burnt them there:
Why hast thou abode between the bounds To hear lowings of before thee? For the courses of Reuben, Great the searchings of heart.
And the Philistine, said, I have defied the bands of Israel this day: Give me a man, and let him fight with me hand to hand.
So Samuel prayed unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people were in fear of Jehovah and of Samuel.
Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David; and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
And they come down from the high place to the city, and he spake with Saul upon the roof.
And they went up and encamped in Kiriath-jearim; in Judah, therefore they have called that place `Camp of Dan,' unto this day: behold, behind Kirjath-Jearim.
Then said Abishai to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day: now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.
And by faith Joseph dying called to mind the going forth of the children of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
Then Samuel said unto the people, "Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and restore the kingdom there."
Now the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beer-sheba.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer: and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And Samuel did that which Jehovah hath spoken, and came to Beth-lehem, and the elders of the city tremble to meet him, and said, Is thy coming peace?'
Barak said unto her, "If thou go with me, I will go; but if ye will not go with me, I will not go."
Now there was a man of Benjamin named Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, a man of wealth.
If he say thus, It is well,thy servant shall have peace; but if he be very wroth, be sure that evil is determined by him.
But what then? That by all means, whether by occasion; or by truth, Christ be have good tidings preached in this also I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
Because this the covenant that I will covenant to the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: giving my laws into their mind, I will write them also upon their hearts: and I will be their God, and they shall be to me for people.
because I will be merciful unto their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more;' even
And Samuel said unto the people, It is the Lord, who made Moses and Aaron, and brought our fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
Wherefore ye ought him in all things to be made like to brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things while he told God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people;
They that were full have hired out themselves for bread: and they that were hungry increase; so that the barren hath born seven; and she that hath many children is waxed weak.
Yahweh's ark was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
and Saul sought to slay with the javelin through David, and in the wall, he freeth himself from the presence of Saul, and he smote the javelin through the wall; and David had fled and escapeth that night.
Women had their dead restored to them living; others let themselves suffer attacked, having no desire to go free, so that they might have a better life to come;
For whereas for the time ye ought to be masters, ye have need to be taught again what are the first rudiments of the words of God: and thou art become such as have need of milk, and not of strong food.
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my service:
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again which be the first rudiments of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong food.
holding forth word of life, so as to be a glory for me in Christ's day, that I have not run in vain nor labored in vain.
And he brought them before the king of Moab; and they dwelt with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice, and said unto Saul: Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And they said, In the morning we will come forth to meet thee: and thou shalt do what ye please with us.
And on the third day it shall be specially noted, and thou shalt go unto the place where ye took cover when the other business was in hand, standing by the hill over there.
Saul said unto Ahiah, "Bring God's ark here." For God's ark was with the children of Israel at that time.
Pray for us. For we trust we have a good conscience being willing to play well in all things.
Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the guest-chamber, and made them sit in the best register among those that were bidden, that were about thirty persons.
And they said unto him, "Keep quiet! Put thy hand upon thy mouth and come with us and be for us a father and a priest. Is it better being a priest for a house of one man or being a priest for a tribe and family in Israel?"
And it came to pass, when David finished to speak these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David?' and Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
He sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and salute him in my name with peace.
(and the boil lifted up the shoulder, and that which upon it, and set it before Saul), and he said, Behold, that which is left: set before thee as eat, for unto this appointed season it is laid up for thee, saying, The people I have called;' and Saul eateth with Samuel in that day.
There was a young man from Beth-lehem in Judah, from the family of Judah; he was a Levite and was dwelling a sojourner there.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom ye put to death in the valley of Elah, is here dandled in a cloth at the back of the ephod; take that, if ye will, for there is no other sword here. And David said, there is no other sword like David; give it unto me.
The Lord do so and much more to Jonathan: but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
And it came to pass, that from the day the ark of Jehovah abode in Kiriath-jearim days were multiplied, (for it was now the twentieth year,) and all the house of Israel rested following the Lord.
And Saul sent messengers to take David, and she said, He sick.'
that ye may prove the things that are exalted; that ye may be unfeigned and without offence to the day of Christ;
The Lord judge between me and thee, and will Jehovah give me my justice against you, but my hand shall never be lifted up against thee.
And David recovered all that the Amalekite had carried away; and David delivered his two wives.
And all the citizens of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went and made Abimelech king by the memorial-oak that is in Shechem.
And Manue said unto the angel of Jehovah, I beseech thee to consent unto my request, and let us dress a kid for thee.
So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.
Wherefore in all things ye ought him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a God merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
And he numbered them in Bezec: and there were of the children of Israel three hundred thousand; and of the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And the man went to the land of the Hittites, and he built a city and called it Luz; this is the name thereof unto this day.
Then the woman said, Who shall I let thou? And he said, Make Samuel come up for me.
They are making their heart glad, and behold, men of the city, men sons of vanity even going to and fro in the house, beating upon the door, and they speak unto the old man, the master of the house, saying, Bring forth the man that was come to thy house, and we know him.'
And he went away from the city of Beth-lehem-judah looking for haply to make his dwelling-place: and upon his journey he came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Prophesy unto me, what hast thou done?' and Jonathan told him, and said, I will surely tasted with the end of the rod that in my hand a little honey; behold, I die!'
Then Jesse sent for Abinadab and made him come before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this one.
Wherefore let us, receiving a kingdom not to be shaken, have grace, which let us serve God acceptably with fear and fear.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel. Because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the caves that are in the mountains, and the caves and the strongholds.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent throughout the border of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, and whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen! And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came as one man.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who shall declare unto me? or what thy father answered thee sharply?'
And all that were in distress and oppressed with debt, and under affliction of mind gathered themselves unto him: and he was their prince, and there were with him about four hundred men.
Then David said, "O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath thy servant surely heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
So Samuel took one stone and put it between Mizpah and Shen, and he called it Ebenezer and said, "Up to here Jehovah hath helped us."
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna; with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna; already in thy hand, that we should give bread to thy men that are also?
saying, `Blessing indeed I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee;'
For which cause God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names:
And the people felt sorry for Benjamin, because Jehovah weakened the tribes of Israel.
The lords of the Philistines gathered them together to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their gods, and to rejoice; for they said, "Our god hath delivered into our hand." Samson our enemy
but to Hannah he used to give a double portion for he loved Hannah; but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers, and they destroy them, and He selleth them into the hand of their enemies round about, and they could not any more to stand before their enemies;
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods: wherefore I will deliver thee no more.
And David came to the two hundred men, who were so faint that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook Besor: and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and when David came near unto the people, he saluted them.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new ropes that never were occupied, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
Then his father and his mother said unto him, "Isn't there a woman among thy brothers' daughters, or among all my people, that ye go to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines?" Samson said unto his father, "Get her for me, for she please me well."
Samuel took the sucking lamb, and offered it for a whole burnt-offering unto Jehovah. Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah answered him.
for them in Aroer, for them in Siphmoth, for them in Eshtemoa
Grace be with you all.
And David said unto Achish, "If now I have found favor in thy sight, let them give me a place in one of the cities in the country, that I may dwell there. For why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with you?"
Now when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, fled to David, that he came down to Keilah with the ephod in his hand.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou didst utterly hate her; therefore I gave her to thy mate. Is not her younger sister fairer than she be? Let her, I pray thee, be thine instead of her.
But the people, the men of Israel, boldly again, set the battle in order and took up the same priesthood as on the first day.
As he turned his shoulder to depart from Samuel, God changed his heart. And all these signs were fulfilled in that day.
Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines!" and he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than they that he slew in his life.
are they not all spirits of service for ministration being sent forth because of them about to inherit salvation?
But he whose descent is not reckoned from them received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the gifts falsely.
Jehovah will render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; because Jehovah delivered you into my hand this day, and I wouldn't stretch out my hand upon Yahweh's anointed.
And the trees said unto the vine: Come thou and reign over us.
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have again need that should teach you what the rudiments of the beginning of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk, not of pure food.
And Saul draweth nigh unto Samuel in the midst of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, unto me, what it was seer's house?'
The Levite, the husband of the woman that is murdered, answered, "I came into Gibeah that belongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge night.
Then David came to This very Ahimelech the priest. Ahimelech came to meet David trembling, and said unto him, "Why are thou alone, and no man with you?"
He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons, that rode upon seventy ass colts. He judged Israel eight years.
if ye then have dealt truly and righteously with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, that rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in thee;
And the men of Israel and of Judah rose up, and cried out, and went after the Philistines as far as Gath and the city doors of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines were falling down by the way from Shaaraim all the way to Gath and Ekron.
And David spake unto the men that stood beside him, saying, What is done unto the man that smote this Philistine, and hath turned aside reproach from Israel? for who this uncircumcised Philistine, that he hath defied the flocks of the living God?'
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose up early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
David therefore departed thence, and escaped into the cave Adullam; and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither unto him.
And they sent and gathered all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Cast out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to its own place, that it kill us not, and our people. For there was deadly alarm throughout the city: the hand of God was very heavy there;
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou go on mourneth for Saul, seeing that I have put him from his place king over Israel? Take oil in thy censer, and go; I will send thee unto Jesse, the Beth-lehemite: for I have bought a king for myself among his sons.
Obey your prelates, and be in subjection unto them: for they watch as being to give account of your souls; that they may do this with joy, and not with sorrow. For this is not expedient for you.
So David fled, and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him: and he went and dwelt in and Samuel Naioth.
Now therefore this gift that thy maid-servant hath brought let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
So they took the vessels of the people, and their horns from their hands, and he sent them away, every man to his tent, keeping only the three hundred; and the tents of Midian were lower down in the valley.
And it was said unto the Gazites, Samson is here. So they went about, watching for him all the day at the door of the city, but at night they held their peace, saying, When the light cometh we will put him to death.
Yet ye have well done, that ye did communicate with my affliction.
Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah which he sent him.
And they went up to the city. And as they came within the city, behold, Samuel came out toward them, to go up to the high place.
Now make a decree to thy servants, who are here before you to seek a man that is play well on a stringed instrument; and it shall be that, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, he will sing praises, even for thee on his instrument, and ye shall recover.
But the child is not know anything about this; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
Then Samuel arose, and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul mustered the people that were found with him, about six hundred men.
and others was circumcised proof of mockings and scourgings, yea, and of bonds and imprisonment.
And no man shall hearken unto you in this matter. But equal shall be the portion of him that went down to battle and of him that dwelt at the for removing, and they shall divide alike.
And Samson said unto her, If they bind me with seven green withs that were never dried up, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
For if he were upon earth, he should not be a priest, saw that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thy horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite; for I have prepared me a king in his sons.
and that all this church may know that Jehovah doesn't Save with sword and spear; for the battle is Yahweh's, and he shall give you into our hand."
Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous: nevertheless afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them that are exercised thereby.
For we don't have a high priest that can't be touched with the heart of our infirmities, But he that hath been in all points tempted like we are, yet without sin.
Now the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul and the evil spirit from Jehovah tormented him.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dancing. because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
of whom the world was not worthy,) wandering in deserts and mountains, and holes, and the caverns of the earth.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushanrishathaim king of River, and the children of Israel served Chushanrishathaim eight years.
And there came a man of God unto Eli, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
All that saw it said, "Nothing was never so since the children of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt unto this day. Observe it, consider it, and speak up."
David came to the two hundred men, who were so faint that they could not follow David, whom also they had made to tarry at the brook Besor; and they went out to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him. And when David came near unto the people, he saluted them.
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye will return unto Jehovah with all your hearts, then put away the foreign gods and Ashtaroth from the midst of thee, and prepare for your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only: and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
At Bezek they came upon Adoni-bezek, and they fought against him, and smote the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
Then said Elkanah her husband unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
For Jesus is not entered into the most made with hands; the an ensample of the truth: but into heaven itself, that he may appear now in the presence of God for us.
For they had instruments for made a crown upon their ploughs and blades and flesh-hooks, and axes, and for putting iron points on their ox-driving rods.
So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan; but Saul and with Jonathan his son had them.
On the day Elkanah sacrificed. he would give portions to his wife Peninnah and to all her sons and daughters.
So the people took provision in their hand, and their trumpets: and he sent all the rest of Israel every man unto his tent, and retained them three hundred men: and the host of Midian was under him in the valley.
Now therefore, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, even whom ye have asked! and behold, Jehovah hath set over you a king.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over unto Beth-aven.
But, my beloved, we trust better things of you, and nearer to salvation; though we speak after that.
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "You have behaved foolishly! Ye have not kept the commandment of Jehovah your God, which he commanded you: for now Jehovah would have established thy kingdom over Israel for ever.
So Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And when they came down from the high place to the city, he spake with Saul upon the roof.
And he said unto Jether his eldest son: Arise, and slay them. But he drew not his sword; for he was afraid, being but yet a man.
but he with an oath by him that said unto him, "The Jehovah hath sworn and will not repent: 'You are a priest forever'"),
Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will no more do thee hurt, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
And she said, `Philistines upon thee, Samson;' and he awaked out of his sleep, and said, I go out as time by time, and shake myself;' and he knew not that Jehovah hath turned away from him.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What meaneth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And Saul heard that David uncovered, and the men that were with him. Now Saul was sitting in Gibeah under the tamarisk upon the height, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing by him.
And they found Adonibezek in Bezek: and they fought against him, and they slew the Canaanite, and the Perizzites.
After him Elon the Zebulunites judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And his mother's brethren speak concerning him, in the ears of all the masters of Shechem, all these words, and their heart inclineth after Abimelech, for they said, He is our brother;'
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred stayed, that being weary could not go over the brook Besor.
When Gideon heard the telling of the dream and the interpretation thereof, he bowed down and returned to the camp of Israel; and he said, "Get up; for Jehovah hath given the camp of Midian into your hand."
And by reason hereof he ought as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
Again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long time; as it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, be ye not your hearts.
And they told to Sisera, that Barak son of Abinoam went up to mount Tabor,
And as for the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire;
The children of Dan sent from the whole number of their family five capable men from Zorah, and Eshtaol, to spy out the land and to spy out it. And they said unto them, "Go, spy out the land." And they went to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and they lodged there.
And they did therefore in this manner: and containing two kine, that had sucking bullocks, they yoked them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home;
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months. And she went with her companions, and bewail her virginity upon the mountains.
And the men of Israel have sworn in Mizpeh, saying, None of us shall give his daughter to Benjamin for a wife.'
But beyond all gainsaying, the inferior is blessed by the better.
God had spoken in many parts and in many ways once to the fathers in the prophets,
Not that I speak in respect of want; for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be therewith content.
And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them, and there were with him about four hundred men.
that same night, And Jehovah said unto him, "Arise, go down into the camp: for I have delivered it into your hand.
And he said unto her, "Please give me a little water to drink; for I am thirsty." And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him a drink, and covered him.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live the king.
the same an agony having such as ye saw in me, and therefore hear of in me.
reckoning that even out of the dead God is able to raise up, whence also in a figure he did receive it.
And Samuel brought unto him all the tribes of Israel, and the lot fell upon the tribe of Benjamin.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the stronghold.
and, (so terrible was the sight,) Moses said, I am terrible exceedingly, and trembling.'
And he said unto the lad, Go, and buy the arrow I poured out from my bow. And while the boy was running, he sent an arrow past him.
Jehovah be it from me to stretch out my hand against Jehovah's anointed! But now take, I pray thee, the spear that is at his head, and the cruse of water, and let us go.
for the people that were numbered of them, and, behold, there was none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
And it came to pass after this, that the heart of David smote him, because he hath cut off the skirt which on Saul,
And it came to pass on the second morrow after the new moon, that David's place is looked after, and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why is the son of Jesse not come in, either yesterday or day unto the food?'
To whom, though himself in the form of God, it was not seem that to take for oneself was to be like God;
And Gideoni, and the three hundred men that were with him, went into part of the camp, at the beginning of the midnight watch, and the watchmen being troubled: they began to sound their trumpets, and to clap the flagons thereof, one against another.
by faith he left Egypt behind, not having been afraid of the wrath of the king, for, as seeing the Invisible one, even he endured:
Therefore Jehovah left those nations, without doth drive them quickly; neither he delivered them into the hand of Joshua.
And the priests' custom with the people was, when any man sacrificed a sacrifice, the priest's servant came, when the flesh was cooked, with a flesh-hook of three prongs in his hand;
Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites; the troops spared the best of the sheep and the cattle to make them unto Jehovah thy God. But the rest we have utterly destroyed."
Then the bad worthless men, among them that went with David said, Because they did not go with us, we will give them nothing of the goods, which we have redeemed, but only to every man his wife, and children, that he may take them, and go.
And the me, go up unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, And with us in palaces, in the forest in the height of Hachilah, which on the south of the desert!
And David came to Nob, unto Ahimelech the priest, and Ahimelech trembleth at meeting David, and said unto him, Why thou thyself alone, and no man with thee?'
And now his hair began to grow again.
So and changed his manner of life before them, he made it seem as if he was off his head, beating upon the doors of the city, and letting the water out of his mouth go down his chin.
But Saul, and they, and all the children of Israel were in the valley of Terebinth fighting against the Philistines.
Then Samuel told the people the ordinances of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And they of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And she said unto him, I will go indeed with thee, but at this time the victory shall not be attributed unto thee, because Sisara shall be delivered into the hand of a woman. Debbora therefore arose, and went with Barac to Cedes.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Therefore we turn again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And there addeth to be war, and David went out and fought against the Philistines, and smote them with a great smiting, and they flee from his face.
Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing,
And sometimes Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east, even they came up against them;
His friend answered him and said, "This cannot be anything save the sword of Gideon son of Jehoash a man of Israel; God hath given Midian and all the camp into his hand."
And she made him sleep upon her knees, and called a man, and she made him to shave off the seven locks of his head; and she began to prevail against him, and his strength in him.
And by faith Enoch was taken up, so that he did not see death, and he was not; for God took him up. For before his captivity, he had been approved as having been well-pleasing unto God.
For if Joshua had caused them to rest, he would not have spoken of another day after these things.
Now therefore if in truth and in sincerity ye have did them, when ye make Abimelech king; and if ye have done good with for. and with his house; and if according to the deed of his hands ye have done unto him,
Now when their heart was joy, they said, Call Samson to mock for us. And they sent and called Samson from the house of bondage, and he made sport before them; and they put him between the pillars.
So all the men of Israel gathered themselves together against the city, joined as one man.
So the Philistines fought and Israel was put to the worse and they fled every man to his tent, for the slaughter was very great. thirty thousand footmen, from Israel fell.
Fleeing as far as Bethsetta, and the border of Abelmahula in Tebbath. But the men of Israel shouting from Naphtali and Asher, and from all Manasseh pursued after Madian.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
And the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, in [the power of the] blood of eternal covenant,
Speak, you that ride upon fair asses, and ye that sit in justice, and walk in the way.
And behold, a man an old man, shall come from his work from the field in the evening, and the man of the hill-country of Ephraim; and he a sojourner in Gibeah, and the men of the place Benjamites:
For patience ought for you; that, doing the will of God, ye may receive the promise.
Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and many fell slain, even unto the entrance of the gate.
and the man goeth to the land of the Hittites, and buildeth a city, and called the name of Luz (the same the name thereof unto this day.
And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers; and there arose another generation after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
Now Jonathan covenanteth with the house of David, and Jehovah hath sought from the hand of the enemies of David;
And chose I him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? and did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel?
And he answered them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon, and I called you to help me: and ye would not do it.
Behold, Saul came following the oxen out of the field; and Saul said, "What aileth the people that they weep?" And they told him the words of the men of Jabesh,
Now all chastisement for the present indeed seemeth not to bring with it joy, but sorrow: but afterwards it will yield, to them that are exercised by it, the most peaceable fruit of righteousness.
And she rose up, and going down on her face to the earth, said, Behold, I am ready to be a handmaid, washing the feet of the servants of my lord.
Though men may rise up to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul, yet the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; he will sling out the souls of your enemies, as from the hollow of a sling.
The children of Benjamin went out from Gibeah, and they smote down on that day twenty and two thousand men of Israel to the ground.
and not put in anything by the opposers, which is to them a demonstration of destruction, but of thy salvation, and that from God;
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah; and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
Now faith is the substance of things to be hoped for, the mouth of things that appear not.
Therefore Saul went up from following the Philistines; and the Philistines came to their own place.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he goeth up to the high place to eat; for the people eat not until he is come, because he blesseth the sacrifice; afterwards they eat that are invited. And now go up; for this very day shall ye find him;
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred silver-pieces that were taken from thee, and about which thou didst curse and speak of in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be my son of Jehovah.
And on the one hand indeed, by reproaches and in the afflictions were made a gazingstock; and on the other side, became companions of them that were used in such sort.
Jehovah do so and much more to Jonathan; Should it please my father [to do] thee evil, then I will apprise thee of it, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
So Samson went and gathered three hundred foxes and some sticks of fire-wood; and he put the foxes tail to tail with a stick between every two tails is
that we may be like unto all the nations; and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and conduct our wars.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his mate. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire.
(The former times in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, "Come, and let us go to the seer"; for he that is now called a prophet was before called a seer.)
though the men were very good unto us; we were not shamefully treated, and did not miss anything all the days we went about with them while we were in the field.
When they were resurrection after David had returned from smiting the Philistine, the women went out from all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet king Saul with timbrels, and with joy, and with three-stringed instruments.
And if they say thus, Come up unto us, then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be the sign unto us.
Then Samuel rose up early in the morning to meet Saul. Samuel was told, "Saul is gone to Carmel, and, behold, he setteth up a memorial for himself." Then he turned, and passed over and went down to Gilgal.
And who would hearken unto you regarding this matter? For as the portion of him that went down into the battle, so the portion of him that remained with the stuff shall be. They shall portion alike."
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses:
But now their heart on a better country, that is to say, for one in heaven: and so it is no shame to God to be called their God; for he hath made ready a city for them.
Then for forty years the land had peace, until the death of Othniel the son of Kenaz.
and said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah, Israel took not the land of Moab, and the land of the children of Ammon,
Therefore Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats;
They have been far off from the house of Micah and the men that in the houses which near the house of Micah have been called together, and overtake the sons of Dan,
But Jehoash said unto all that stood against him, "Will ye contend for Baal. Wilt thou deliver him? Whosoever contendeth for him shall be put to death by the morning. If he is a god, let him contend for himself because his altar hath been plucked down."
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
As they cried unto the children of Dan, they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, "What aileth thee, that thou come with such a company?"
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
and said, Let me go, I pray thee; for we have a family sacrifice in the city; and my brother himself hath commanded me [to be there]; and now, if I have found favor in thy sight, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. He hath therefore not come to the king's table.
He also saith, "Their sins and their iniquities I will never remember again."
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of the king. And Nabal's heart was merry within him: for he was drunken to riot, so she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall fear him: and upon them shall he thunder in the heavens. Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, and he shall give dominion to his king, And shall exalt the horn of his Christ.
And it shall be, when she multiplied praying before Jehovah, that Eli is watching her mouth,
And Samuel said, Like as thy sword bereaved women so is thy mother bereaved above women;' and Samuel heweth Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
This day, and Jehovah will deliver thee into my hand, and I will slay thee; and take away thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
Him therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I shall see how it goeth with me:
And Saul said, Come near, all ye principal of the people, and let us get word from God and see in whom is this sin this day.
And Saul sent for the people and had them numbered in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen; and ten thousand men of Judah.
David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
accomplish my joy, so that ye are in covenant, having the same love, joined in spirit, having one accord;
For unto Thessalonica also ye sent once and again for my dwell in.
Forasmuch as he was not made priest without the taking of an oath
Now when Saul saw David went out to meet the Philistine, he said to Abner, the captain of the guard "Whose son is this young man, Abner?" And Abner said, "As thy soul liveth, O king, I do not know."
And the man riseth to go, he and his concubine, and his young man, and his father-in-law, father of the damsel, saith unto him, Behold now, the day is fallen toward evening, lodge all night, I pray thee; behold, the partiality. of the day! lodge here, and let thy heart be glad and ye shall rise up early, to-morrow for your journey, and go to thy tent.'
And Samson said, With a jaw-bone of the ass for an ass upon asses, even with a jaw-bone of the ass I have smitten a thousand men.'
And another company turned the way to Bethhoron: and another company turned to the way of the border over unto the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking that he cast away the jaw through out of his hand, and called that place Ramathlehi.
terrible the fall into the hands of a living God.
And they took all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness unto the Jordan.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kings that afflicted you.
how much more shall the blood of the Christ (he through the eternal Spirit did offer himself without blemish to Jehovah), purify your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
then it shall be, that which at all came out from the doors of my house to meet me in my backsliding in peace from the children of Ammon it is become unto Jehovah, or I have offered up for it for a burnt-offering.'
That by two immutable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we may have the mightiest comfort, that have fled for refuge to hold fast the hope set before us.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me, and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
but congealed food belongeth unto a fullgrown men, who, because of habit, have their minds exercised for discernings both good and evil.
And Abimelech came to the tower and fought against it, and drew nigh unto the door of the tower for the purpose of firing it.
And by faith he was a fugitive in the land of the covenant, as in a strange land, living in tents with Isaac, and Jacob, who had a part with him in the same inheritance:
And rushing at the spoil in the battle, and the people took oxen and sheep and young oxen, and put them to death there on the earth, and had a meal, taking the flesh with the blood in it.
And it came to pass, when they were come that he looked upon Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And a man of Benjamin runneth out of the ranks; and cometh into Shiloh, on that day, and his garments rent, and earth upon his head.
Now Zebah and Zalmunna; were in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the host of the children of the east; for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
Then the Spirit of God rushed upon Saul when he heard these words, he was very wroth.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and thither fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it unto them, and gat them up to the top of the tower.
And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah; even Issachar, and also Barak: he was sent on foot into the valley. For the courses of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart.
And when she was upon the tip of death, they that stood about her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son. And she answered them not, nor gave heed unto them.
Yahweh's anger was kindled against Israel; and he said, "Because this nation transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice,
Thou had no pleasure in whole burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.
And Achish called unto David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, surely thou upright, and good in mine eyes is thy going out, and thy coming in, with me in the camp, for I have not found in thee evil from the day of thy came to me unto this day; and in the sight of the princes thou art not good;
And the Philistines called the priests, and they that were chirp and said unto them, What shall we do with the ark of the Lord? How are we to send him away to its place?
And concerning the angels he saith, "The one that maketh his angels winds, and his servants a flame of fire,"
And it is yet far more evident: if according to the likeness of Melchizedek there ariseth another priest,
Oh! would that this people were under my hand: then would I remove Abimelech; and he said unto Abimelech; Increase thine army, and come out.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, 'I remember what Amalek did to Israel, how he set himself against him in the way, when he came up out of Egypt.
And David pursued, he and four hundred men; for two hundred tarried behind them; that were too wearied herself with to go over the brook Besor.
So then, ye also please hearken to the voice of thy maid-servant, and let me set before you a morsel of bread, and ye eat so that thou shalt have strength in you, when ye go on your way."
And now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.
Then Samuel said unto Jesse, Are all your children here? And he said, There is yet the youngest, and he seeketh after the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and make him come here; for we will not take our seats till he is here.
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us play. And they called for Samson from the house of bondage, and he played before them; and they set him between the pillars.
and I lay hold on my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and send her into all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have done wickedness and folly in Israel;
And it came to pass after this, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
I also will henceforth drive out any from before them of the nations which Joshua left when he died:
And Gideon said unto them, Let me ask of thee a petition, and give ye unto me every one the ring of his prey, for they have rings of gold, for they Ishmaelites.'
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Samson, and he rent the lion as he would have plucked a kid in pieces, having nothing at all in his hand; and he would not tell it to his father, and mother.
And the Philistines warred, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man into his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen:
God do so to the enemies of David, and more also, if I leave of all that he hath, by the morning light so much as one that urinates on a wall."
And the vine saith unto them, Have I ceased from my new wine, which is rejoicing gods and men, that I have gone to stagger over the trees?
Women received their dead raised again. But others racked, not had respect of those that escape, that they might find a better resurrection.
Now therefore up by night, thou and the people that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field;
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ; to all the saints in Christ Jesus, who are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons.
and thou hast done kindness, unto thy servant; for into the covenant of Jehovah thou hast brought thy servant with thee; and if there is in me iniquity, put thou me to death; and unto thy father, why is it that thou shalt bring me in?'
And without all Meribah the less is blessed of the better.
Then they went along through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but came not within the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
Let us hold the testimony of our hope strong and unshaking, for he is true who hath given his word;
They chose strange gods: then was war in the gates: Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Zebulun didn't drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became subject to taskwork.
And it was wroth, Saul exceedingly, and this thing is evil in his eyes, and he said, They are given to David ones, and to me they have given the thousands, and more to him only the kingdom;'
They answered him, Jehovah that heareth these things, he himself is mediator and witness that we will do as we have spoken.
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come, because the Philistines have fell upon the land!"
And he said unto her, If they surely bind me with wreathen new ones, whereby work hath not been done, then I have been weak, and have been as one of the man race.'
but he whose genealogy is not counted from them hath received tithes from Abraham, and hath blessed him that hath the gifts falsely.
For the women to go year by year mourneth for the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite, four days in every year.
Now ye also know, Philippians, that at the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church yet divided with me in the matter of giving and receiving except thou alone,
And the name of his first-born was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah: they judged in Beer-sheba.
What more shall I say? For there would not be time to give the stories of Gideon, Barak, Samson, and Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets:
If thy father sinneth against me at all, then say, 'David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Beth-lehem his city; for it is the yearly sacrifice there for all the family.'
For if we sin wilfully after having the knowledge of the truth, there is now left no sacrifice for sins,
And he said unto them, When Jehovah therefore shall have delivered Zebee and Salmana into my hands, I will thresh your flesh with the briers and thorns; of the wilderness.
And when David was gone over unto the other side. and stood on the top of the hill afar off, and a good space was between them,
But Samuel said, "Then what is this bleating of the sheep that I hear in mine ears and the lowing of the cattle that I am hearing?"
Though he was a son, he learned obedience from what his passion
Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him: and so it was, because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
For God hath not subject unto angels the world to come, whereof we speak.
Wherefore God exalted far him, and gave him the name which is above every name;
Therefore I do not trespass against thee, but thou wrongest me by declaring an unrighteous war against me; The Lord be judge and decide this day between Israel and the children of Ammon.
For if the blood of goats, and bullocks and the ashes of a young cow, sprinkled on them that are defiled sanctify them for the ritual pureness of the flesh,
And the people had spoken unto him according to this word, saying, "So it shall be done unto the man that defeats him."
And he brought him down, and behold, they are separated upon the face of all the earth, eating and drinking, and feasting, with all the great spoil which they have taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
And they arose and went to Ziph, before Saul; but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of the wilderness.
and where remission of these things, there is no more oblation for sin.
But I have thought it necessary therefore to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow-worker and fellow-soldier, but your apostle, and he that hath ministered unto my needeth.
Because I will be merciful unto their unrighteousnesses, and their sins and their iniquities I will never remember no more.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, shut up before Jehovah; and his name was endureth the best of the herdsmen that belonged to Saul.
And his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah, and Eshtaol, in the sepulchres of Manoah his father. He judged Israel twenty years.
Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do: for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household: for he is such a son of fellow, that a man cannot speak unto him.
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna; Where are the men whom ye put to death at Tabor? And they gave answer, as ye are, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them feeding the sheep.
(for the law made nothing perfect), and a bringing in of a better hope, through which we draw near unto God.
Now Saul was threatened by the presence of David because Jehovah was with him, but had departed from Saul.
But Samuel did the work of the Lord's house, while he was a child, arrayed in a linen ephod.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: what hast thou seen. And the woman said unto Saul: I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children suck? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down until he come hither.
Now therefore take and make one new cart, and two sucking cows and upon which hath not gone up, and ye have bound the kine in the cart, and caused their young ones to turn back from after them to the house,
By faith, he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the first-born should not touch them.
Ask thy servants, and they will tell thee. Now therefore let thy servants find favor in thy eyes: for we are come in a good day, whatsoever thy hand will find give unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
For a tabernacle was prepared. In the first part were the candlestick, the table, and the showbread; which is called the Holy Place.
And he said unto David, Come unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth.
Abimelech came up to the tower and fought against it, and he came nigh unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
on the one hand, when ye were made a spectacle both in reproaches and afflictions; and on the other side, when ye became partakers with them that were passing through them.
And behold, as thy life was exalted this day in mine eyes, so let my life be exalted in the eyes of Jehovah, that he may deliver me out of all adversity.
Through the window she hath looked forth, Yea, she crieth out the mother of Sisera, Through the lattice: Wherefore is his chariot delayed to come? Wherefore tarried have the steps of his chariot?
Then her husband Elkanah said unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why are ye not a food? why is thy heart troubled? am I not more unto you than ten sons?
It was so; for he rose up early on the next day, and pressed the fleece together, and drained the dew out of the ones among a bowl full of water.
And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do that which seemeth him good.
and Ehud, made him a sword, and it hath two mouths (the cubit its length), and he is girded under his apparel on his right thigh:
Then Samson's wife, weeping over him, said, Verily ye have no love for me but only hate; thou hast put a hard question unto the children of my people and have not given me the answer. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not given the answer even to my father or my mother; shall I give it unto thee?
For this is the covenant that I will make with the people of Israel after those days: I will put my laws into their minds, writing them in their heart; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
And the number of them lapping with their hand unto their mouth is three hundred men, and all the rest of the people have bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
And David said unto Achish, "Very well, ye shall know what thy servant can do." Achish said unto David, "Very well, I will make thee my Carites for life."
And the Philistines set in the battle against Israel: and the battle was deferred until Israel was put to the worse before the Philistines, that slew about four thousand men on the battlefield.
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before them other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
And blessed be thy counsel, And blessed be thou, who hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.
and thou hast declared this day, how that thou hast done good with me, how that Jehovah shut me up into thy hand, and thou didst not kill me,
And Achish called David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou art upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the camp is acceptable unto me; for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me to this day, but thou art not acceptable to the Lords.
And they gave to Caleb Hebron, as Moses commanded him, and cast out thence the three sons of Anak.
And they had no saviour, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with Syria; and it was in the valley which is the possession of Beth-rehob. And building up the city again they took it for dwelt therein.
And the Philistine, came upon and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
This thing that thou hast done is not good. As Jehovah liveth, surely ye people recompense to die since ye have not kept watch over your lord, over Yahweh's anointed: So then see where the king's spear is and the pitcher of water, which was nigh to his head!"
But this Yet once, signifies as what is shaken, as being made, that what is not shaken may remain.
And also Saul was gone to his house, to Gibeah, and the army go with him whose heart God hath touched;
Then David and his men, about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David had escaped from Keilah, and he forbore to go forth.
And Abishai, said unto David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day; and now I will smite him, I pray thee, with the spear, even to the ground once, and I will not do it the second time.
and Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and he fought against all his enemies, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom; and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines, and whithersoever he turneth he shall vex it.
If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him: but if a man sin against the Lord, who shall entreat for him? Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
Now when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were come together at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard of it, were sore afraid.
And thou shalt call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou art to do, and thou shalt anoint him whom I shall show unto thee.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer: and dwelt there, because of Abimelech his brother.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, unto me, wherein thy great power; and wherewith thou art bound, to afflict thee.'
Samson said unto them, "Let me tell you a dark saying now. If ye can declare it unto me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of raiment;
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey it after thee: it but no man put his hand unto his mouth: for the people feared the oath.
And it shall be, in the day of battle, that there was not found sword and spear in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and with Jonathan and there is found to Saul and to Jonathan his son.
And this man went up out of his city from year to year to worship and to sacrifice to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two skin-bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred fig-cakes, and laid them on asses.
And Samuel cried unto Jehovah; and Jehovah gave voices and rain, on that day, and all the people greatly fear Jehovah and Samuel:
And the house of Joseph spied out Beth-el now the name of the city was Luz).
all the valiant men arose and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burned them there.
And these all, that hath obtained witness through faith, received not the promise,
Oh that I had authority over this people! I would put Abimelech out of the way, and I would say unto Abimelech; Make thine army strong, and come out.
Saul also departed to his own house in Gibeah. And there went with him a part of the host, whose heart God had hip.
And when she had done so, she took him with her, with a three-year old bullock, and an ephah of meal, and a bottle full of wine, and brought him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was yet very young.
and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant; and to the sprinkled blood that speaketh better than Abel's doeth:
For we are made partakers of Christ; if so be that we hold the beginning of his substance firm unto the end.
He answered them, Are ye the destroy of Baal, that ye fight for him? he that is his adversary, let him die before to-morrow light appear: if he be a god, let him avenge him on him that hath cast down his altar.
But he refused, saying, I have no given to appetite. But his servants, together with the woman, made him to eat bread and he gave way to them. So he rose up from the earth, and sat on the bed.
Now in the morning, Jonathan went out into the fields at the time he had said unto David, and he had a lad with him.
For it became him, for whom all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make perfect the prince of their salvation through sorrows;
and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the coming age,
For yet a very little while, and he that is to come, cometh, and doth not delay.
By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff.
And Saul clothed David with himself; and put a helmet of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a corselet.
Yahweh's Spirit came mightily upon him, and he rent him as he would have plucked a kid; and he had nothing in his hand, but he didn't tell his father or his mother, what he had done.
and I say unto you, I am Jehovah your God, ye shall not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye are habitation. and ye have not obeyed my voice.'
On condition that ye should not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land, but should cast down their altars; and ye would not hear my voice; why hast thou done this?
And it came to pass on the fourth day that they rose up early in the morning, and he rose up to go, and the father of the damsel, said unto his son-in-law, `Support thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward ye go on.'
And Saul began to fear David more: and Saul waxed David's enemy continually.
And David arose early, he and his men, to go in the morning, again unto the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines are gone up to Jezreel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and alighted from the ass, and fell down before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground,
Then Eli said, Samuel, my son. And Samuel answered and said, Here am I.
and the three hundred blow the trumpets And Jehovah appointed the sword of every one against his companion, even through all the camp; and the camp fled unto Beth-Shittah, at Zererath, unto the border of Abel-Meholah, by Tabbath.
For the law maketh men priests, that have infirmity; But the word of the oath which was since the law, the Son who is perfected for evermore.
For he hath been counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by how much he that hath built it hath more honor than the house.
And Jehovah called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again.
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah.
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my laws into their mind, and write them in their heart; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
And Samuel departed to Ramatha: but Saul went up to his house in Gibea;
And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail; and the woman was of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance; But the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was a Calebite.
And as they went forth, and had set before them the children and the cattle and all that was valuable,
And now cry in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him go and return and turn from mount Gilead. And there went back of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
And David said unto Ahimelech the priest, "The king hath commanded me to do, and hath said unto me, 'Let no man know anything about the business whereof I send thee, and what I have commanded thee; I have sent the young men to a certain place.'
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men that same day together.
And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
And Jehovah said, "Judah shall go up. Behold, I have delivered the land into his hand."
They were left to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto Yahweh's commandments, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
and Jesse causeth seven of his sons to pass by before Samuel, and Samuel saith unto Jesse, Jehovah hath chose these.'
And the children of Israel served Eglon, king of Moab eighteen years;
and Saul inquired of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath not answered him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.
"For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. after those days," saith Jehovah; "I will put my laws into their mind, I will also write them upon their heart; I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
As a servant of the holy things and of the true Tent, which was put up by God, not by man.
And the men of Kirjath-Jearim come and bring up the ark of Jehovah, and bring it to the house of Abinadab, in the height, and Eleazar his son they sanctified to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And Gideon said, Therefore when Jehovah delivereth Zebah and Zalmunna; into my hand, I will thresh your flesh with thorns of the wilderness and with briars.
Jesse took an ass laden with bread and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son to Saul.
as also in another he said, Thou a priest for ever, according to the ordinance of Melchisedek;'
And so shall he do year by year, from the time of her going up into the house of Jehovah, so it provoketh her, and she wept; and doth not eat.
The voice of Jehovah said Samuel's name: and he said, Here am I.
And the children of the Cinite, the near kinsman of Moses, went up from the city of palm-trees, with the children of Judah into the wilderness of his lot, which is at the south side of Arad, and they dwelt with him.
perfect them in every good work the works of his will, doing in thee that which is good in him through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel in the valley of terebinths, fighting against the Philistines.
So they sent ten thousand of the mighty men of valor, and commanded them, saying, Go and put the inhabitants of Jabesh Gilead to the sword, and their wives, and their children.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall remain in thy house shall come that he may be prayed for, and shall offer a piece of silver, and a roll of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, to somewhat of the priest's office, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
For we also have had the gospel preached unto us, as they also did, but the message they heard did not profit them, because they were not regard unto them that heard it in faith.
Micah said unto him, "Where camest thou from?" He saith unto him, "I am a Levite of Beth-lehem Judah, and I am seeking a place to live."
Then the king sent for Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of his father's family that were priests in Nob: and they fell all of the king.
And Abimelech drawing nigh unto the tower, fought stoutly: and drew nigh unto to the gate, sought to set fire unto it:
Now Saul's daughter Michal loved David, so they told Saul, and the matter pleased him.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
And behold, Barac came pursuing after Sisara: and Jahel went out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee, the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, be saw Sisara lying dead, and the nail fastened in his temples
Now Jonathan called for David, and Jonathan told him of all these words, and Jonathan bringeth in David unto Saul, and he is before him as beforetime.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
And the number of them that had lapped water, casting it with the hand to their mouth, was three hundred men: and all the rest of the multitude had drunk kneeling.
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the street of the city; and the old man said, "Where goest thou? Where camest thou from?"
Then said Saul unto Samuel, "I have hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and I have gone on the way which Jehovah sent me? I brought Agag the king of Amalek, and the Amalekite I have utterly destroyed.
The Philistine, said unto David, "Am I a dog, that ye come unto me with sticks?" The Philistine, cursed David by his gods.
And it was told Abimelech that all the lords of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
And he was very thirsty, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great those that escape, and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the in uncircumcision?
And by faith Moses was kept secretly by his father and his mother for three months after his nativity, because they saw that he was a fair child; and they had no fear of the king's precepts.
But there is no doubt that the less getteth his blessing from the greater.
For both he that sanctifieth, and they that were sanctified, are all of one. For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, saying,
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
Nay, my sons; for the report which I am hearing is not good that causeth the people of Jehovah is astray.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may give thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.
They went out into the field, garnered their vineyards, trod the grapes, held feasts, and went into the house of their gods, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech;
For every high priest, being taken from among men, is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins.
And one of [Nabal's] young men told Abigal Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our master; and he hath reproached them.
and we desire each one of you the same diligence to show, unto the full assurance of the hope unto the end,
And he did so year by year, as often as she went up to the house of Jehovah, she provoked her thus, and she wept, and did not eat.
and she put out her hand to the tent-pin, and her right hand to the workman's hammer; and she gave Sisera, as a blow, treading his head, wounding and driving through his bald forehead.
There was nothing lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor anything that they had taken unto them. David brought back all.
may we hold fast the unwavering confession in the of the hope, (for faithful He that did promise),
And their sins and iniquities will I remember no more.
But Saul and the people did not put Agag to death, and they kept the best of the sheep and the oxen and the fat beasts and the lambs, and whatsoever was good, not desiring to put them to the curse: but all things whatsoever which was bad and profitable they put to the curse.
And he had a mitre of brass upon his head, and he was arrayed in a coat of metal, the weight whereof was five thousand pieces of brass.
So Michal let David down through the window. And he went away, fled, and escaped.
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is thy way wherein ye go.
that doeth not need every day like the former high priests to offer sacrifices for his own sins and then for the sins of the people, because he did this once for all when he offered up himself.
But when they came up out of Egypt, Israel went into the wilderness to the Red Sea and came to Kadesh;
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear; ye make the Lord's people astray.
Now this man was called Nabal, and his wife's name was Abigail: she was a woman of understanding and pleasing looks: but the man was cruel and evil in his ways; he was of the family of Caleb,
Jephthah sent messengers again to the king of the children of Ammon;
and every priest, indeed, hath stood daily serving; and the same sacrifices many times oblation, that are never able to take away sins.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.
and Jehovah, the God of Israel, giveth Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them, and Israel possesseth all the land of the Amorite, the inhabitant of that land,
And when ye saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, was coming against thee, thou said unto me, no more of this; we shall have a king for our ruler: when Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
Let us come near with a perfect heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from the evil conscience, and our bodies, washed with clean water.
He stood, and called unto the array of Israel and said unto them, "Why hast thou come out to form flocks for war? Am I not the Philistine, and ye the servants of Saul? Commission for yourselves a man and let him come down to me.
and might deliver all of them that for fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.
The Philistine, walked and came near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, "Because this people transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not obeyed my voice,
Saul and Jonathan his son and the host that remained with them abode in Geba of Benjamin, and the Philistines encamped in Micmash.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all thy heart; for consider what great things he hath done for you.
Abimelech dwelt at Arumah; and Zebul drove out Gaal and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.
Therefore, receiving a kingdom that can't be shaken, let us have grace through which we serve God acceptably, with fear and awe,
And David rose up, and and his men about six hundred men, and they go out from Keilah, and go up and down where they go up and down; and to Saul it hath been signified that David had escaped from Keilah, and he ceaseth to go out.
And it came to pass, when the time was come to pass, Anna conceived, and bare a son, and called his name Samuel: because she had asked him of Jehovah.
And his daughter in law the wife of Phinehas, was great with child, and near her time: and hear the report that the ark of God was taken, and her father-in-law, and her husband, were dead, she bowed herself and fell in labored: for her pangs came upon her on a sudden.
And they showed not good to the house of Jerubbaal-Gideon, according to all the good that he had done to Israel.
So he brought down the troops to the water, and Jehovah said unto Gideon, "You must separate every one that bosom up the water to drink with his tongue like a dog from them that kneel."
But Jehovah overthrew seventy men of the people of Beth-shemesh for looking into the ark of Jehovah; and great was the sorrow of the people for the destruction which Jehovah had sent upon them.
And therefore these were begat from one man, and he being such as good as dead as the stars of heaven in number and as the innumerable sand at the haven of the sea.
And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore; But they knew not that wickedness was near them.
And they took all the border of the Amorites, from the Arnon even to the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan.
But now thy kingdom shall not be established. Jehovah hath sought for himself a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath appointed him to be prince over his people, because ye have not kept that which Jehovah commanded you."
So Jehovah punish Jonathan and more if my father decides to do you harm and if I fail to disclose it to you and send word unto you, that ye can go safely. And Jehovah be with you, as he hath been with my father.
and Moses indeed stedfast in all his house, as an attendant, for a testimony of the things that were to be spoken,
But the men of Israel were distressed that day. Now Saul had straitly sworn the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth food until even, and I am avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted food.
For every chief priest, out of men taken; in behalf of men is set in things to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins,
And he brought them before the king of Moab, and they abode with him all the days David was in the stronghold.
Put not thy handmaid before a daughter of misery, for from the abundance of my complaint, and of my provocations; I have spoken hitherto.'
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went home; and David and his men went up to the stronghold.
And he went from thence against the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir beforetime was Kirjathsepher:
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice, and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
and all Israel and Judah, love David when he cometh forth and coming in before them.
Therefore I sware unto the house of Eli that the iniquity of the house of Eli would not be forgiven by sacrifice or by offering forever."
And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death;
Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Beth-el, one bearing three kids, and another bearing three loaves; and another bearing a bottle of wine:
And all the people rose up as one body, saying, "Not one of us shall go to his tent, Or will any of us return to his house.
Then the Philistines said, "Who hath done this?" And they said, "Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he hath taken his wife, and given her to his companion." The Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
And he said unto his lad, Run, find out now the arrows which I shoot. And as the lad ran, he drew his bow beyond him.
Then Samuel said, "Gather all Israel to Mizpah, and I will pray unto Jehovah for you."
And he said, They were my brethren, even the sons of my mother, as Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay thee.
So David said to Abner, "Are ye not a man? And who is like unto thee in Israel: why didst thou not keep watch over your lord the king? For one of the people came to destroy your lord the king.
For verily he doesn't help angels, but he giveth help unto the seed of Abraham.
And Samuel took a fat lamb, and made it to go up for a burnt-offering whole unto Jehovah; and Samuel crieth unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered him;
Wherefore it came to pass, when the time was come to pass after Hannah had conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of Jehovah.
And so terrible was that which was seen, Moses said, I am frighted, and shudder.
For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.
and make straight paths for thy feet, and what is lame shall not be dislocated, but rather be healed.
By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid for three months by his parents, because they saw that he was a goodly child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.
Nevertheless Jehovah raised up judges, which delivered them out of the hand of those that despoil them.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, "That being so, we have now returned unto you, that ye may go with us to fight against the children of Ammon, and become for us as head of all the inhabitants of Gilead."
And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
of whom the world was not worthy, going about on deserts and the mountains and in the caves In holes in the ground.
Seeing he had been constrained often to suffer from the foundation of the world. But now once in the end of the ages he was manifested for putting away of sin by his sacrifice.
Now the righteous shall live by faith: but if any man draw again, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And Adonibezek said, Threescore and ten kings, having their thumb and their great toe cut off, gathered their food under my table. as I have done, so God hath recompensed me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
And the children of Dan went their way; and Micah saw that they were too mighty for him, and he turned and departed unto his house.
He setteth on fire the torches and let the foxes go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and he burnt both the shocks of sheaves and the standing grain, up to the vineyards of olive Asherim,
for we do enter into the rest we that believed; as he said, Even so, I sware in mine anger, If they shall enter into my rest; ;' and yet the works were done from the foundation of the world,
And Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, and he said, "May Jehovah make thee an seed from this woman instead of the made suit to one that she requested from Yahweh." then they came to their own home.
And by faith he kept the passover, and put the sign of the blood upon the houses, so that the angel of destruction might not put their eldest sons to death.
And when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to get Jephthah out of the land of Tob.
but ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your afflictions and your troubles, And have said unto him, [Nay,] but a king shalt thou set over us; now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
for ye have conspired all of you against me, and there is none uncovered mine ear about my son's covenanting with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you hurting for me, and uncovered mine ear, that my son hath raised up my servant against me to lie in wait as this day.'
And they took their daughters unto wives, and they gave their own daughters unto their sons, and they served their gods.
They answered "We will willingly give them." They spread a garment, and every man cast the ear-rings of his prey into it.
ye did not delight in whole burnt-offerings and offerings for sins.
and I will go out, and have stood by the side of my father in the field where thou art, and I speak of thee unto my father, and have seen what [is coming], and told thee.'
Let each man not considering the things that are his own, but they that are other men's.
I can do all things through Christ that strengtheneth me.
For they of us that believe come into his rest; even as he hath said, As I said in my oath when I was wroth, They shall not enter into my rest: though the works were done from the time of the foundation of the world.
And when the people saw him, they gave praise unto their god; for they said, Our god hath given into our hands he that was fighting against us, who made our country waste, and who put great numbers of us to death.
As saith the parable of the elders, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and carried it from the Stone of help into Ashdod;
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment;
The Philistine, said, "I defy the hosts of Israel today! Give me a man, that we may fight together!"
On that day I will fulfil against Eli all that I have spoken against his household, from the beginning unto end.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worship before Jehovah, and turn again, and came unto their house in Ramah, and Elkanah knoweth Hannah his wife, and Jehovah remembered her;
for I know that this shall turn out for me to salvation through your supplication and staff of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And the children of Israel were servants to Eglon, king of Moab, for eighteen years.
Now therefore call, I pray thee, in the ears of the people, saying, Whoso afraid and trembling, let him turn back and go early from mount Gilead;' and there turn back of the people twenty and two thousand and ten thousand have been left.
And others tempted of being laughed at or by their stripes; and even with chains and prison-houses:
And he smote it into the pan, or pot, or caldron, or pot; all that the fleshhook brought up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came thither.
And she is bitter in soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept greatly,
And Moses said unto God, let not thy wrath be kindled against me, if I try once more, seeking a sign in the fleece. I pray that the fleece only may be dry, and all the ground wet with dew.
And when the men of the city rose up early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal, and Asherah, that was by it were cut down, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that had been builded.
His daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered. And when she heard the tidings that God's ark was taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and brought forth; for her pangs came upon her.
Then quickly crying out to his body-servant, he said unto him, Take out thy sword and consumed me straight away, So that men may not say of me, His death was the work of a woman. So the young man put his sword through him, that causeth his death.
and the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he selleth them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon,
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been compassed seven days.
And when she had gotten upon an ass, and was coming down to the pace of the mountain, David and his men came down over against her, and she met them.
How much more could have been done if the troops had eaten freely this day from the spoil of their enemies that they had be found. For now the loss among the Philistines is not great."
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh. He passed through Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he was passing along to the children of Ammon.
Then they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh yearly in a place which is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
and the people pounced on the spoil, and took sheep, cattle, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people did eat them with the blood.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, and ye rebel against what thus saith Jehovah, then the hand of Jehovah shall be against you as it was against your fathers.
And when the men of that city were risen in the morning, they saw the altar of Baal destroyed, and the Asherah cut down, and the second bullock laid upon the altar, which then was builded.
for many walk of whom many times I told you and now also weeping tell The enemies of the cross of the Christ.
And being without father or mother, or family, having no birth, or end to his life, being made like the Son of God, is a priest for ever.
For he of whom these things are spoken be joined to another tribe from which no man hath officiated at the altar.
And he said unto David, `More righteous thou than I; for thou hast done me good, and I did unto thee evil.
And he saith unto them, Out of the devourer came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness;' and they were not able to declare the dark saying three days.
For we know him that said, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay," and again, "The Jehovah will judge his people."
For we have not a high priest not able to sympathise with our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner sin apart.
Now after a time the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel: Hearken to the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee. For they have not rejected thee, but me, that I should not reign over them.
And Saul said unto his servants, `Provide, I pray you, for me a man can play well now have ye brought unto me.'
So Jonathan rose from the table in great anger, and did not eat bread on the second day after the new moon. For he was grieved for David, because his father had put him to confusion.
And a forces came out from the tents of the Philistines, named Goliath of Gath; he was more than six cubits high;
And the angel of Jehovah appeared no more to Manoah and to his wife. Then Manoah knew that it was the angel of Jehovah.
Then said Saul unto Ahiah, "Bring near the ark of God" (for the ark of God was at that time with the Israelites).
and when again He may bring in the first-born of the world, he said, And let them bow before him, all messengers of God;'
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die; Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.
If then [there be] any comfort in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of Spirit, if any bowels and mercies
And the trees said unto the fig-tree: Come thou and reign over us.
I pray thee, go make yet more sure, and know and see his place where his hold is and who hath seen him there; for I have been told that he dealeth very crafty.
But a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come; for the Philistines have fell upon the land!"
because for the work of Christ he came near to death, risking his life to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, "Behold, I will do anything in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou go to be the worse for drink? Put away the heart how of thy wine from you.
And Jehovah appeared again at Shiloh. for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel at Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
Henceforth expecting until his enemies be made his footstool.
Then said Saul unto the Kenite, Go, depart and get ye down from Amalek: lest I destroy thee with him. For thou hast showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the Cinite departed from the midst of Amalek.
and Samuel upholdeth the burnt-offering to go up and the Philistines draw nigh to battle against Israel, and Jehovah will thunder with a great noise, on that day, upon the Philistines, and troubleth them, and they are put to the worse before Israel.
And God clave the hollow place that is at a troop, and water came out from it; and he drank, and his spirit returned, and he was revived: Thus he called the name of it The Spring of Ha-Qore, which is at Lehi unto this day.
And with whom was he offended forty years, Behooved it not with them that sinned, whose carcasses were overthrown in the wilderness? for
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and thou shalt smite the Philistines, and shalt save the district of Keilah.
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went with Saul to them: the names of the three that went to the fight were Eliab, the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and Shammah the third.
And they answered them and said, He is; behold, he is before thee; make haste now, for he came this day unto the city; for the people have a sacrifice to-day in the high place.
And the Philistines were gathered together to battle, and their hosts were gathered together at Socoh, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped in Ephesdammim. between Socoh, and Azekah,
and make straight paths for your feet, that that which is lame be not turned aside; but rather that it may be healed.
And Achish answered and said unto David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: nevertheless the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
Not yet unto blood did ye resist with the sin striving;
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh: for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
There was a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people; the garrison, and the spoilers, also trembled, and the earth did quake; so there was an exceeding great trembling.
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men lefthanded; every one could Sling-stones in an hair breadth, and not miss.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and cut them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, "Whoever doesn't come out after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen." The dread of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came as one man.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows."
And there a man of the servants of Saul on that day shut up before Jehovah, and his name endureth chief of the shepherds whom Saul hath.
And he took Agag the king of the Amalekite alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? Am not I better to thee than ten sons?
and said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is it come to pass in Israel, that there should be this day one tribe lacking in Israel?
Then Gideon sent through all the hill-country of Ephraim saying, Come down against Midian, and keep the ways beyond the Jordan before they come. So all the men of Ephraim, tumult themselves together, kept the ways over the Jordan.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thy heart: and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and the borders thereof, did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
But I counted it necessary therefore to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow-worker fellow-soldier, and your apostle and servant of my need;
But if ye yet do evil, destruction will overtake you and thine anointed.
Wherefore, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, thus stand fast in the Lord, beloved.
and he hath a son, and his name Saul, a choice youth and goodly, and there is not a man among the children of Israel goodlier than he from his shoulder and upward, higher than any of the people.
So the rulers of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh bowstrings that were not dried up, and she bound him with them.
As soon as the boy was gone, David arose out of the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times. They kissed one another, and wept one with another, and David wept the most.
And when David and his men had come to Ziklag, on the third day, the Amalekite had fell upon the South, and on Ziklag, and had smitten Ziklag, and burnt it with fire,
and Saul took him aside from him, and made him overseer to himself head of a thousand, and he went out an cometh in, before the people.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him; for he had eaten no bread, nor drink water for three days and three nights.
Her hand to the pin she sent forth, And her right hand to the labourers' hammer And she beaten Sisera, as she smote his head, Yea, she smote, and it passed through his temple.
Then the king said to the posts that ministered near him, Put the priests of the Lord to death; because they are on David's side, and having knowledge of his flight, did not give me word of it. But the king's servants would not put out their hands to lay hands on the Lord's priests.
Then Ehud, went out into the covered shut the doors of the summer-house upon him, and bolted them.
And now as I know that thou shalt surely be king, and have the kingdom of Israel in thy hand:
And they said unto them, "Come, let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and it is very good. Wilt thou do nothing? Do not hesitate to go, to enter, to inherit the land.
And he said unto them, Out of the devourer came forth food, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days declare this riddle.
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise. behold, when I come unto the uttermost part of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
Then he said, Speak inquire of God for us, to see if the journey on which we go will have prosperous or not.
And when David heard that Nabal had died, he said, "Blessed be Jehovah that hath avenged the case of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and he hath kept back his servant from evil; But Jehovah hath returned the evil of Nabal upon his own head." Then David sent and spake with Abigail to take her for his wife.
From Ephraim is their root into Amalek, after you, Benjamin, with thine aunt. from Machir the captains went down, and from Zebulun they that bare the sceptre of the chief host.
And the men that died not were put to the worse with the emerods: and the cry of the city went up unto heaven.
And Jehovah called Samuel again the third time. And he arose, and went to Heli.
Now Samuel died, and all Israel assembled and mourned for him. And they buried him at his house at Ramah: Then David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
and this shall we do if God permit.
Remember them that are bound, as if ye were bound with them, and they that are in trouble, As being yourselves in the body.
And the men of Judah said, Why hast thou come up against us? And they said, We have come up to take Samson, and to do to him as he hath done to us.
and these all, having been testified to through the faith, received not the promise,
Yet so that they first went up and wept before Jehovah until night: and consulted him, and said, Shall I go out any more to fight against the children of Benjamin my brethren, or not? And he said unto them, Go up against them, and join battle.
And Jehovah called Samuel again the third season. And he arose, and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
For he was sick, almost to death, but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, that I should not have sorrow on sorrow.
Then Abimelech went to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.
For ground that drinketh the rain that cometh often upon it, and bringeth forth grass fit to them for whose sake it is also hoed; greeting partaketh a blessing from God.
And he went up from thence against the people of Debir. (Now the name of Debir in old time was Kiriath-sepher.)
who serve the tidings and shadow of heavenly things, according as Moses was oracularly told about to make the tabernacle: for Behold, saith He that thou make all things after the pattern which hath been showed thee in the mountain.)
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, and the sign that the things which are not seen are true.
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that advanced Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
And by faith Abraham did as God said when he was ordained to go forth into a place which was to be given to him as a heritage, and went out without knowledge of where he was going.
And the Philistine, came on, and drew nigh against David, and his armorbearer before him.
And said these things, they cast away out of their borders all the idols of strange gods and served Jehovah their God, and he was touched with their ruin
Do all things without suit and arguments.
Then he disguised himself; and put on other garments, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night, and he said unto her, Divine unto me of thy divining spirit, and bring me up him whom I shall tell thee.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning; and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do what shall seem good unto thee. Then said the priest, Let us come near hither unto God.
And Samson said unto her, If seven new bow-cords which have not gone out of dry are made of round me, I shall faint and shall be as any other man.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath given the Moabites, thine enemies, into your hand. So they went down after him, and took the crossing-places of the Jordan against Moab, and let no man go journey.
But one of the young men said unto Nabal's wife Abigal David sent men from the wilderness to say kindly to our master, and he gave them roughly.
And by faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed about seven days.
Go, and cry unto the gods that ye have chosen: let them save thee in the time of your trouble.
and Jesse made his seven sons come before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not taken one of these things.
So David arose, and fled on that day from the presence of Saul, and he came to Achish the king of Gath;
And death came to Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, he being a hundred and ten years old.
Saul answered and said, "Am I not a Benjamite, from the least even of the tribes of Israel, and my family the lowest of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin? Why speakest thou unto me in this way?"
He will take a tenth part of your seed and of the fruit of thy vines and give it unto his servants.
And the sons of Benjamin come out to meet the people; they shall be drawn away out of the city, and begin to smite of the people, wounded as time by time, in the highways (their one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah in the field), about thirty men of Israel.
who being the brightness of the glory, and the compel of his subsistence, bearing up also the all things by the word of his might is through himself having made a cleansing of our sins, sat down at the right hand of the greatness in the highest,
Then Eli said unto her, "How long wilt thou behave like unto a man that is drunk? Put away your wine!"
and cometh up and told his father, and to his mother, and said, It is the woman I have seen in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines; and now, take her for me for a wife.'
And when Gaal saw the people, he said unto Zebul, Behold, there come people down from the top of the mountains. And Zebul said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.
Then Hannah prayed, and said, "My heart restore, in Jehovah, my strength is exalted in Jehovah; I grin over mine enemies, for I rejoice over thy salvation.
And Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul bowed himself unto Jehovah.
Therefore Saul sent to Jesse, saying, "Please let David stand before me, because he hath found favor in my sight."
And he called quickly unto the young man bearing his armor, and he said unto him, "Draw thy sword and kill me, that they may not say of me, 'A woman killed him.'" So the young man pricked him, and he died.
Now Jonathan said unto David, What thy soul may say, I will do it for thee.
And Saul said, Let us fall upon the Philistines by night, and destroy them, till the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And the people said, Do all that seemeth good in thy sight. And the priest said, Let us come near hither unto God.
to whom Abraham gave also the tenth portion of all; first being interpreted, God King of righteousness, and then also King of Salem which is King of peace;
For unto you it is given for Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for him.
And the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom shall he go up from us?
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel; howbeit Laish was the name of the city at the first.
Manasseh drove not out Beth-Sean and its towns, or Taanach and its towns, or the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, or the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, or the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns thereof; the Canaanites would dwell in this land.
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Do not to dwell in this place but go into the land of Judah. And David went away and came to the forest of Hereth.
As she rode upon her ass, and came down by the covert of the mountain, that, behold, David and his men went down toward her, and she met them.
In that day will I perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even unto the end.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah, in the land of Saul.
And they turned and fled into the wilderness to the ascent of Rimmon, and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men; and pursued hard after them to Gidom, and slew two thousand men of them.
And they took all the flocks, and herds, and drive them before him, said, These are David's.
And the gold mice, one for every city of the Philistines, the possession of the five lords, fortified cities as well as country places; and the great stone where they put the ark of Jehovah is yet in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemite unto this day.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served Baal;
And David answered and said unto the priest, Certainly women have been kept from us; and as hath been done before when I have gone out the arms of the young men were made holy, even though it was a common journey; how much more this day will their arms be made holy.
Therefore also God exalt him and granted him the name above every name,
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and took his charge and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the wagon-defence; and the host which was going forth to the battle-array shouted for the battle.
don't harden your hearts in the rebellion, like as in the day of the trial in the wilderness,
And build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the appointed place, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
And David hid himself in the field; and it was the new moon, and the king sat at meat to eat.
So they went on their way again, putting the little ones and the oxen and the spoil before them.
and the men of Judah say, Wherefore have ye come up against us?' and they say, To bind Samson we have come up, to do to him as he hath done to us.'
I am in a hard array between the two, having a desire to go away and be with Christ, which is very much better:
And the sin of the young men is very great the presence of Jehovah, for the men have despised the oblation of Jehovah.
saying, "This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath commanded for you."
They sent therefore and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines; and they said, Cast out the ark of the God of Israel, and let it return into its own place, and not kill us and our people.
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard them tidings, and his anger was kindled greatly.
And his sons didn't walk in his ways, but turned aside after filthy lucre; took a bribe, and perverted justice.
The women sang one to another as they played, and said, "Saul hath slain his thousands, David his ten thousands."
Take not thy handmaid for a daughter base fellows, for out of the abundance of mine affliction and provocation have I spoken since:
And the Hebrews were for the Philistines as beforetime; that went up with them into the camp, have turned about, even they, to be with Israel that with Saul and Jonathan
Then Samuel told the people the custom of the royal and he wrote the statutes down upon a book and laid it before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his own house.
Now this is the house, to point in that which hath been said, we have a high priest such as this, that sat down at the right hand of the throne of the Honor in heaven,
Then Achis called David, and said unto him, As Jehovah liveth, thou art upright and good in my sight: and so is thy going out, and thy coming in with me in the host; and I have not found my evil in thee, since the day that thou camest to me unto this day, but thou pleasest not the Lords.
And Jehovah sent for. and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Shemuel, And delivereth you out of the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwell safely.
So the Philistines went to the battle, and Israel fainted, and every man fled to his tent: and great was the destruction, for thirty thousand footmen; of Israel were put to the sword.
that in the days of his flesh offered up both prayers and supplications, with loud crying and tears, unto him that was able to save him from death, and he was heard in his reverence.
In the days of Samgar the son of Beth-anath, in the days of Jahel the paths rested: and they that went by them, walked through by-ways.
And they took the things which Micah had made, and the priest which he had, and came unto Laish. unto a people that were at quiet and established; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burnt the city with fire.
standing every man in his place, round about the enemies' camp: so all the camp was troubled, and crying out, and wailing they fled away.
only of food and drinketh and divers washings, ordinances of flesh, laid until time of setting things right.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats' hair for his bolster, and covered it with a napkin.
having been perfected; he became to all of them that obey him the Prince of eternal salvation,
Now Yahweh's Spirit departed from Saul, and the evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
Saul took him on that very day and did not suffer him to return to his father's house.
make my joy full, by being likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of the same mind;
neither yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the most holy things, every year with the blood of others,
And they sent unto David, saying, The Philistines fight against Keilah and take the grain of the grain-floors.
Thy flocks also he will tithe, and ye shall be his servants.
And after him Ibzan of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
Jephthah vowed a vow unto Jehovah, and said, "If thou wilt indeed deliver the children of Ammon into my hand,
And thou shalt put the ark of Jehovah on the cart, and the gold images which thou sendest as a sin-offering in a chest, by its side; and send him away that it may go.
Although God spake long ago in many parts and in many ways to the fathers by the prophets,
And he came to his father's house in Ephra, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerobaal, seventy persons, upon one stone, and there remained only Jotham the youngest son of Jerobaal, who was hid.
And David said unto Abiathar, "I knew on that day, when endureth chiefs was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I am smote all the souls of your father's house.
Abimelech ruled over Israel three years.
And he said to Abiathar the priest the son of Achimelech: Bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And the man came in quickly, and told Eli.
And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedesh-Naphtali, and said unto him, shall not Jehovah, the God of Israel, it? Go, and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun
And it was so from that time forth, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not,
So Saul took him out of his presence, and made him captain of a thousand, so he went in and went out at the forefront of the host.
For God is my witness, how I long after you all in the belly of Jesus Christ.
These indeed out of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel:
Saul said, "Hear now, thou son of Ahitub." And he answered, "Here I am, my lord."
Grace be with you all.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us come near unto one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah:
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent abroad, and took in thirty daughters from abroad for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
Saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, within the tabernacle of Jehovah: and his name was Doeg, an Edomite; the ascent of Saul's have cattle.
And yet they would not hearken unto their judges, but they played the harlot after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obey the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
Moreover he will take the tenth part of thy grain, and of the fruits of your vineyards to give his eunuchs and servants.
Then Gideon knew that he was the angel of Jehovah; and Gideon said, I am in fear, O Lord Jehovah! for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
Then said Saul nothing that day, for he thought it might have happened unto him, that he was not clean, nor yourselves.
And the Philistine, said, I have reproached the flocks of Israel this day; give me a man, and we fight together.'
And when he came to a troop, the Philistines shouted against him. And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords that were on his arms became as warp, or of flax that are burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
And he restored the eleven hundred silver-pieces to his mother, and his mother said, I had dedicated the silver to Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image; and now I will restore it unto thee.
And I beseech you, true helper in my work, to see to the necessities of those women who took part with me in the gospel, with Clement and the rest of my brother-workers that are written in the book of life.
So they inquired again of Jehovah, "Did the man come here?" And Jehovah said, "Look, he was hiding among the baggage."
And she left him, and returned unto her father's house in Bethlehem, and abode with him four months.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes and put them down on the rock over there, and poured out the pottage, over them. And he did so.
And the Philistines are standing on the mountain on this side, and the children of Israel are standing on the mountain on that side, and the valley between them.
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat: and they gave him water to drink.
not that I seek after the gift, but I seek after the fruit that is overflowing to your sake:
Now I beseech thee also, my unfeigned companion, help those women that have labored with me in the gospel, with Clement and the rest of my fellow laborers that are written in the book of life.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, Saul's sons.
but Christ, as Son over his house, whose house are *we*, if so be that we hold fast the boldness and the glory of hope firm unto the end.
And they gave him a slice of fig cake and two clusters bread, he did eat and this quickened him, because he had not eaten bread, nor drink water for three days and three nights.
And he said unto him, "Please, if I have found favor in thy sight, show me a sign that thou art speaking with me.
We have an altar from which they priests that are servants in the tent may not take food.
David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul saying, "My lord the king!" When Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
For a land, drinking in the often rain and yielding good herb for them for whom it is they wrought; hath a blessing from God:
And why will ye harden your heart, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their heart? And when he had wrought mightily among them, did they not let them go, and they gone?
And the other kine went straight forward on the way to Beth-shemesh; they went by the one highway, lowing as they went; they turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And they rose in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah: and they returned, and came into their house at Ramatha. And Elkanah knew Anna his wife: and the Lord remembered her.
And they oppressed and crushed the children of Israel in that year; eighteen years [they oppressed] all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
I said, Now will the Philistines come down upon me to Gilgal, and I have not entreated the favor of Jehovah. Forced of constraint, I offered the burnt-offering.
And all the children of Israel go out, and the congregation was assembled as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah, at Mizpah.
being complete as touching the fruit of righteousness, which by Jesus Christ, to God's glory and praise.
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, "Behold, I have in my hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver. I will give that to the man of God, to tell us our way."
and Jonathan the son of Saul delighted exceedingly in David, and Jonathan told David, saying, `Saul my father is seeking to put thee to death, Now therefore take heed, I pray thee, in the morning, and thou hast abode in a cellar, and hid themselves,
For the Amorites would dwell in mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim; but the children of Joseph became stronger than they, and put them to taskwork.
and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, To buy food for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel."
Let your behavior be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never fail thee, nor forsake thee.
Then David arose afterward and went out of the cave and called after Saul "My lord the king!" When Saul looked after him, David kneeled down with his face to the earth, and did obeisance.
Now Jonathan spake good things of David to Saul his father: and said unto him, Sin not, O king, against thy servant, David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and his works are very good toward thee.
Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash;
And Saul's uncle said unto him, and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were nowhere, we went to Samuel.
And Saul said, I will give her unto him, that she may be a stumblingblock to him, and that the band of the Philistines may be upon him. And Saul said unto David, In two things thou shalt be my son-in-law this day.
And David said to Abishai, Do not put him to death; for who without sin, may put forth his hand against the man upon whom Jehovah hath put Jehovah's anointed?
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was a faithful prophet of Jehovah.
And the sons of Dan send, out of their family, five men of them, men, sons of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to traverse the land, and to spy it out, and they say unto them, Go, search the land;' and they came into the hill-country of Ephraim, unto the house of Micah, and lodge there.
But I beseech you, brethren, endure the word of exhortation, for I have written unto you in few words.
And Saul sware unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, no punishment will come to you for this.
how much more shall the blood of the Christ, who by the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot unto God, purify your conscience from dead works to worship living God?
And because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body himself and became as them; so that by his death he might make a full end of him that had the power of death, that is to say, the devil:
peace pursue with all, and the separation, besides which no one shall see the Lord,
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the children of Ammon.
And all Israel heard that Saul had fought against the Philistines, and that Israel was sore hated of the Philistines. And the people gathered themselves together after Saul to Gilgal.
for if Joshua had given them rest, He would not concerning another day have spoken after these things;
By faith, they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land: When the Egyptians assayed to do so, they were swallowed up?
And Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And the rest of the people went up after Saul to meet the people that fought against them, going from Gilgal to Geba in the hill of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people, that were found with him, about six hundred men.
And He for sin one sacrifice having offered for end, did sit down on the right hand of God, even
And Dalila said unto Samson: Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy greatest strength should lie, and what it is wherewith if thou wast bound thou hast been able to not break unloose.
Then one of the servants answered and said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Beth-lehemite diligent at playing; and a strong man and a man of war: and he is wise in his words, and pleasing in looks, and Jehovah is with him.
and Jehovah shall come again to every man his righteousness and his truth, in that Jehovah hath given thee this day into hand, and I would not put forth my hand against the anointed of Jehovah,
And they smote Moab at that time, about ten thousand men, all robust, and every one a man of valor, and not a man is escaped,
Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
And it came to pass on the day that Elkanah sacrificed. he gave to Peninnah his wife and all her sons and her daughters portions:
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion, and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me from the hand of this Philistine.' And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.'
And when the people of Ashdod, rose up early in the morning after, they saw that Dagon was come down to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah. And they took Dagon up and put him in his place again.
because also in Thessalonica, once and again to my need ye sent.
Now his father and his mother knew not that it was of the Lord, who had the destruction of the Philistines in mind. Now the Philistines at that time reigned over Israel.
Wherefore, my brethren beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And it came to pass after a season, that the children of Ammon fight with Israel,
I also will no more drive out any of the nations that Joshua left when he died from before them;
And the young man addeth to answer Saul, and said, Behold, there is found with me the fourth part of a shekel of silver: and I have given to the man of God, and he hath declared unto us our way.'
Jephthah came to Mizpah to his house; and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances. she was his only child: besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
and Saul saith unto him, Whose is son thou, O youth?' and David said, Son of thy servant Jesse, the Beth-Lehemite.'
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because that Jehovah had broken forth in the tribes of Israel.
I will go out and stand at my father's side in the field where thou art, and I will speak about you to my father; if I find out anything I will tell it to you."
And God subdued Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel in that day.
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord:
And the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, and they said, What is this noise of a great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
To-morrow about this time will I send thee a man of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel: and he shall save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked down upon my people, because their cry is come to me.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up to Beth-el, weeping and waiting there before Jehovah, had fasted and all the day until even, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, who shall do according to my heart, and my soul, and I will build him a faithful house, and he shall walk all days before my anointed.
Now therefore hearken to their voice, but yet testify unto them, and told them the right of the king, that shall reign over them.
Now therefore stand still, and I judge you before Jehovah with all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did with you, and with your fathers.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, who had brought many children into glory, to perfect the Prince of their salvation, by his anger.
But Samson said unto them, Even if thou hast done this, yet will I be revenged of you, and I will be quiet.
And within the second veil was the place which is called the Holy of holies;
For by this, the elders obtained testimony.
We have an altar from which they that minister in the tent have not the right to eat.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
And if the man said unto him, "Let them burn the fat utterly first, then take thee as ye desire," then he would say unto him, "No! Give it now! and if not, I will take it by force!"
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
Behold, this day your eyes have seen how that Jehovah had delivered thee this day into my hand in the cave. Some urged me to slay thee; but I spared you; and I said, I will not stretch out my hand upon my lord, for he is Yahweh's anointed.
And it came to pass after a long time, that the children of Ammon fought with Israel.
And David answered Jonathan: Who shall bring me word, if thy father should answer thee hardly concerning me?
And after the second curtain was a tent called the most holy things,
And he took his staff, which he had always in his hand; and chose him five smooth stones out of the valley, and put them into the shepherd's wallet, which he had with him, and he took a sling in his hand, and went forth against the Philistine.
but this day ye are risen against the house of my father and slew his sons, seventy men on one stone, and thou hast made Abimelech the son of his maid-servant, a king over the lords of Shechem, because he is thy relative
and now hear, I pray thee, also thou, unto the voice of thy handmaid, and I set before thee a morsel of bread, and eat, and there is in thee power when thou goest in the way.'
And the other kine took the straight way to the way of Beth-shemesh, and went along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.
While they were with the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young Levite, and they turned aside there and said unto him, "Who brought you here? What doest thou in this place, and what is thy business here?"
arm you with every good thing to do his will, bearing out in us what is good in him through Jesus Christ, to whom be the glory for ever. Amen.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be nakedness; above women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before Jehovah in Gilgal.
and all this assembly do know that not by the sword and by spear will Jehovah save; that the battle Jehovah's, and he hath given you into our hand.'
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking-places where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with the assurance; and I will go with you, and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.
For the earth that drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed, receiveth blessing from God:
But Hannah didn't go up; for she said unto her husband, "Not until the child is weaned. then will I bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide forever."
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Wherefore wilt thou dost ask for my name? and it Wonderful.'
He judged Israel twenty years in the days of the Philistines.
And David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
So they took their victuals and their trumpets into their hand, and he sent all the men of Israel, every one, to his tent: but three hundred of the men he kept; the camp of Midian was under him in the valley.
And when he came thither, he had a horn sounded in the hill-country of Ephraim, and all the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he at their head.
Salute every one that is godly in Christ Jesus. And the brethren with me salute thee.
He will take a tenth of thy flocks, and ye yourselves shall become his servants.
then it shall be, that whatsoever come forth from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down, and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
In those days was there no king in Israel: every man did that which was right unto him.
and they find Adoni-Bezek in Bezek, and fight against him, and smite the Canaanite, and the Perizzite.
Then me, went up to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding among us in the strongholds at Horesh on the hill of Hakilah, which is south of Jeshimon?
saying, I will give the knowledge of thy name unto my brethren, I will sing praises unto you before the church.
And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.
for the priesthood being changed, of necessity, also, of the law a change cometh,
And Ibzan died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And the Philistines were humbled, and they came not any more into the borders of Israel. And the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines, all the days of Samuel.
And when he had heard it, he agreed to their words, and took the ephod, and the graven images, and the molten god, and departed with them.
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And to whom Abraham gave a tenth part of all that he had, being first named King of righteousness, and then sake also, King of Salem that is to say, King of peace;
and he hath forty sons, and thirty son's son, riding upon seventy ass-colts, and he judgeth Israel eight years.
And Eglon, gathered together the children of Ammon and Amalek, and they went and prevailed against Israel and took the city of were palm-trees.
David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was fleece his sheep.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he said, Certainly that this nation have transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened to my voice;
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went forth to go his way; and, behold, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
The kings came and warred, the kings of Canaan fought in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, and yet they took no spoils.
Go, please, make certain no more. have searched out and see exactly where he is and who hath seen him there. For they have said unto me, 'He is very cunning.'
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifted up the beggar from the dunghill; to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he hath set eternity upon them.
and when men arose early on the morrow morning, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold. only the stump of Dagon was left unto him.
Then said Micah, Now know I that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite unto me in the priest's office.
And as I may so say, Levi also, who receiveth tithes, paid tithes in Abraham.
And God did so that night; only the fleece was dry, and dew was upon all the ground.
and she let him to go up with her when she hath weaned him, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and she brought him into the house of Jehovah at Shiloh, and the lad [is but] a youth.
And they that were slain in the same place were eighteen thousand men, all mighty men of war.
For a covenant hath effect after death; for what power, hath it while the man that made it is living?
And the elders of Jabesh say unto him, Let us alone seven days, and we send messengers into all the border of Israel: and if there is none saving us then we have come out unto thee.'
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul said, I am sore grieved: and for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by the prophets nor by dreams; therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at the other times.
And when the men of Ashdod, saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.
Then said Saul unto the Kenite, Go, come forth, and go down from among the Amalekites, lest I consume thee with them; for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And the Kenites departed from among the Amalek.
And all the people went to Gilgal: and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
And straightway the children of Israel rising in the morning, encamped by the hill:
And the children of Israel said, "Who in the assembly hath not come up out of all the tribes of Israel to Yahweh?" For a solemn oath was taken concerning whosoever came not up unto Jehovah at Mizpah, saying, "He shall surely be put to death."
And Samuel said, How shall I go? for Saul will hear of it, and he will slay me. And he said, Thou shalt take with thee a young bullock, and thou shalt say, I am come to sacrifice to Jehovah.
For it is evident that our Lord hath sprung out of Judah, whereof tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
And there was a young man out of Bethlehem-Judah of the family of Judah, who was of the Levites, and he tarried there.
Should I take my bread and my water and my food which I have slain for my shearers and give it unto men whom I know not where they are thou?
And Samson said unto her, If they should bind me with seven fresh cords which have not been dried up, then should I be weak, and be as another man.
always, in every supplication of mine for you all, with joy making the supplication,
Then broken were the horse-heels, By pransings even pransings of the mighty men.
And between the passeth, whereby Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistines' garrison, there was a rocky point on the one side, and a rocky point on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the cups, and held the lamps in their left hand, and the trumpets in their right hands to blow out; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of Gideon.
And Zebah and Zalmunna; fled, and he pursued them and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna; and he put to the worse all the host.
And that day Saul took David and would not let him go and return unto his father's house.
And David fled, and is escaped, and came unto Samuel to Ramath, and told him all that Saul hath done unto him, and he goeth; he and Shemuel, and they dwelt in Naioth.
And he went up they lodged in Kiriath-jearim of Judah, which place from that time is called the camp of Dan, and is behind Kiriath-jearim.
And the priest answered David and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is showbread; if the young men have kept themselves at least from women.
And he said, Out of the taker of food came food, and out of the strong came the sweet. And at the end of three days they were yet not able to give the answer.
But now he hath obtained a better ministry, by how much also he is a mediator of a better covenant, which is established on better gifts falsely.
Then he called hastily to the young man that bare his armor, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that they say not of me, A woman killed him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
Now unto our God and Father be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
Betwixt Her feet he bowed he fell, he lay down; Betwixt Her feet did obeisance, he fell, Where did obeisance, there he fell even destroyed.
Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took torches, and turned tail to tail, and put a flaming torch in the midst between every two tails
And they said, "You have not advantage of us, nor oppressed us, neither have ye wrongfully exacted aught of anyone's hand."
So his father went down to the woman, and made a feast for his son Samson: for so the young men used to do.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote Nabal, that he died.
And he said unto Jether his first-born, "Get up, and kill them!" But the lad didn't draw his sword; for he was afraid, because he was yet a youth.
But this man, because he abideth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood.
And the Spirit of Jehovah is upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead and Manasseh, and passeth over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over to the children of Ammon.
And if they had called to mind that from whence they went out, they had had opportunity to be returned:
And they set them up Micah's graven image, which he had made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
But he said unto him, "Look, a man of God is in this city, and the man is honored. All that he saith surely cometh true. So then let us go there; peradventure he will tell us about our journey on which we have gone."
The people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, that had seen all the great work of Jehovah, which he had wrought for Israel.
Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints; They of Italy; salute you.
Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, Lest haply we should let them slipped.
And David said unto his men, "Each man latchet on his sword!" So each one fastened on his sword, and David also fastened on his sword. about four hundred men went up after David, while two hundred remained with the baggage;
And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad and Gilead. And when Saul was yet in Gilgal, all the people that followed him were sore afraid.
They shall perish, but thou shalt continue: and they shall all wax old like a garment;
The Lord do so to Jonathan and on still more. But if my father shall continue in malice against thee, I will uncover it to thy ear, and will send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace, and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But unto the Son, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, that were taken from thee, about which thou cursedst, and speakest of also in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
So David set out early, he and his men, to leave in the morning to return unto the land of the Philistines, but the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And he had thirty sons that would ride upon thirty asses, and they had thirty cities that are in the land of Gilead that they called Havvoth-jair, Jair until this day.
And the children of Israel served Eglon, the king of Moab eighteen years.
As he saith also in another place: Thou art a priest for ever, according to my love
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Now therefore let not my blood fall to the earth in front of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek one flea, as pursueth the partridge in mountains.'
And so it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites, the Amalekites, and the children of the east came up against them.
And when David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was fleece his sheep,
And it came to pass, when he came in, that he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and go down with him do the children of Israel from the hill-country, and he before them;
And Benjamin came again in that day; and they gave them the wives whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh-Gilead; but even so they found not enough for them.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
that in the name of Jesus every knee may bowed themselves with of heavenly places, and earthlies, and what are under the earth,
And David went he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those that were left behind stayed.
He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness, because no man shall prevail by his own strength.
And these are the golden boils which the Philistines returned as a trespass-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Gaza one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
For this Melchizedek was king of Salem priest of the Most High God, who met Abraham returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their heart inclined to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Jephthah said unto them, I am man of great strife I have been (I and my people, said with the children of Ammon, and I call you, and ye did not saved me out of their hand,
And his father-in-law, the girl's father, kept him there for three days; and they did eat and drink, and refreshed himself there.
And the men of the city rose up early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal broken down, and the oaks which was by it cut down, and the ox offered upon the altar which had been put up there.
Now the ark of God was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
For by this the people of old were approved.
Then David took from her hand that which she had brought for him, and he said unto her, "Go up to thy house, in peace. See, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and I have granted your request."
And he brought down the people unto the water, and Jehovah said unto Gideon, Every one that lappeth with his tongue of the water as the dog lappeth thou shalt set him apart; also every one that fell on his knees to drink.'
and he judgeth Israel twenty and three years: and he died, and was buried in Shamir.
Again Gaal said, Behold, there cometh people down from the midst of the land, and one company, came by the way that looketh toward the oak.
David arose, and passed over, he and the six hundred men that were with him, to Achish the son of Maoch, king of Gath;
If then perfection was by the Levites, priesthood, (for under it the people received the law), what further need was there that another priest should rise according to the ordinance of Melchisedech, and not be called according to the ordinance of Aaron?
And David said to Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is new moon, And I should not fail to sit with the king at food; but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field until the third even.
Then said Saul unto the Kenite, Go away, take you out from among the Amalekites, nor destruction will overtake you with them: for ye were manner unto the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Egypt. So the Kenites went away from among Amalek.
(for they are become priests without the swear of an oath, but he with the swear of an oath, by him that said, as unto him, The Lord hath sworn, and will not repent [of it], Thou priest for ever [according to the order of Melchisedec];)
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, Ehud, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a left-handed man; and the children of Israel sent an offering made by him to Eglon, king of Moab.
And all the men of the tower of Shechem heard it, and they entered into the stronghold of the house of the god Berith.
And they hear regarding it unto the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead even that which the Philistines had done to Saul,
Here I am! testify against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed: Whose ox have I taken? Or whose ass have I taken? Or whom have I exploited? Whom have I oppressed? Or from whose hand have I taken a bribe, that I may shut mine eyes regarding him?then I will restore it to you."
And he said, In peace; I am come to make an oblation unto Jehovah, make yourselves clean and come with me to make the oblation. And he made Jesse and his sons clean, and sent for them to be present at the oblation.
but now they long for a better, that is, an heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God, for And he did prepare for them a city.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, of heavenly and bodies and infernal it,
The child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. Yahweh's word was precious in those days: There visions were not frequent.
And now make a new cart, and take two milch kine, whereon there is come no yoke, and bind the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them;
And she said unto her young men, Pass over before me, and I will come after you; but she said nothing to her husband Nabal.
And he showed them how to enter into the city. And they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his house.
And David put his hand in his bag and took out a stone and sent it from his leathern girdle straight at the Philistine, and the stone went deep into his forehead, and he went down to the earth, fell on his face.
Then the five men went on their way and came to Laish and saw the people that were there, living without thought of peril, like the Sidonians, quiet and established; for they had everything on earth sufficiently, and they were far from the Sidonians and had no business with Aram.
For when they were besieging the city, which before was called Luz (the
The Holy Spirit is point unto, this, that the way into the holy place wasn't yet revealed while the first tabernacle was yet standing:
Saul cast his spear at him to smite him. And hereby Jonathan knew that his father was determined to slain David.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, What is this that thou meanest to do, that thou wouldest not call us, when thou wentest to fight against Madian? and they contended with him sharply, and almost offered violence.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges to be over Israel.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that were therein, and brake down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And he took the elders of the city and briers and thorns; of the wilderness, and rent them with them, and cut in pieces the men of Succoth.
For we know him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will give reward. and again, The Lord will judge his people.
And this hath been done from that day and backward, and since was made a statute and an ordinance, and as a law in Israel.
Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, "If thou art returning unto Jehovah with all thy heart, then put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you, and direct your hearts unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines."
Take heed, brethren, lest by any means there be in any of you an evil heart of their unbelief, to depart from the living God.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba, knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
Now this present which thy servant hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
Therefore because we have a great high priest that is gone through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast unto our confession.
For behold, thou art conceiving and bear a son; and there shall no razor go up upon his head, for a Nazirite to God is the lad with child, and he shall begin to save Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.'
And Ehud, went out at the porch, and shut up the doors of the upper chamber upon him, and hath bolted it;
So they (the meeting, sent twelve thousand of chosen men, and charged them, saying, Go and put the people of Jabesh-gilead, the sword, and with their women and their little ones.
If they said thus unto us, stand still, until we come unto you, then we shall dwell in our place, and will not go up unto them.
And he went down and spake unto the woman that had pleased his eyes.
For he put his life in danger and prevailed against the Philistine, and Jehovah gave all Israel salvation: ye see it, and are glad; wherefore then are ye sinning against him that hath done no wrong, desiring the death of David without cause?
For, as Jehovah liveth, the saviour of Israel, even if the sinner is Jonathan, my son, shalt surely die. And not a man among all the people gave him no answer.
And Samson said concerning them, Now shall I be more perfect than the Philistines, although I do them a displeasure.
Then Samuel said unto all Israel, "Look, I have hearkened unto thy voice regarding all that thou hast said unto me, so I have set a king over you.
When they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses near Micah's house gathered together and overtook the children of Dan.
For God is my witness, how I long for you all in the belly of Jesus Christ,
And when he had a high priest over the house of God;
So they gathered themselves together unto Mizpah, and gathered water, poured it out before Jehovah, and they took no bread that day, and they said, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel was judge of the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, Jehovah's anointed, to stretch out my hand against him, for he is the anointed of Jehovah.
Be not therefore lose thy confidence, which hath a great reward.
And by faith Abel offered unto God a greater sacrifice than Cain, by which he was approved that he was righteous; because God approved him for his gifts, and through it he still speaketh, though he is dead.
And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath; and he smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with an ox-goad. And he also delivered Israel.
And all the men of Israel is gathered unto the city, as one man even fellows.
And David went out whithersoever Saul doth send him; he dealt wisely, and Saul set him over the men of war; and it is good in the sight of all the people, and also in the eyes of the servants of Saul.
(for the law perfected nothing,) and the introduction of a better hope by which we draw nigh to God.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the king of Syria Cushan-Rishathaim, Naharaim; and the children of Israel served Cushan-Rishathaim eight years.
And Saul came to Samuel in the midst of the gate and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where is the house of the seer?
And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I, for thou hast called for me;' And he answered, I called not; turn back, lie down;' and he went and lay down.
And Abishai, said unto David, God hath shut up this day thine enemy into thy hand; and, therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with a spear even into the earth at once and I did their lamentations unto him.'
And his father said unto him also his mother, Is there not among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, a woman, that thou goest to take a woman out of the uncircumcised Philistines?' and Samson said unto his father, Take her for me, for she is right in mine eyes.'
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took dough, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof;
And after him Elon, the Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the apostle and High priest of our confession, Jesus:
And David said in his heart, I shall gone day or other fall into the hands of Saul: is it not better for me to flee, and to be saved in the land of the Philistines, that Saul may despair concerning me, and cease to seek me in all the borders of Israel? I will flee then out of his hands.
only, fear Jehovah, and ye shall serve him in truth with all thy heart, for see that which he hath made great with you;
But his master said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a stranger, which is not of the children of Israel, but we will pass along to Gibeah.
And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And he said unto his lad, "Run, find now the arrows which I shoot." As the lad ran, he drew his bow beyond him.
Then Abimelech went up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it up and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, do as I have done.
Woe unto us! Who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? These are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all manner of plagues in the wilderness.
Then died Ibzan, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for which is lent unto Jehovah. And they went unto their own home.
When the Philistine, arose, and came and drew near to meet David, David ran quickly unto the battle line to meet the Philistine.
that this shall be no grief to you, nor transgression of heart to my lord, either that thou hast shed blood without cause, or that my lord hath avenged himself. When Jehovah hath dealt well with my lord, then remember your servant."
Even before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed. Give flesh to roast for the priest, and he will not accept boiled flesh of thee, but raw.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou come again.
And Jehovah God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them: so Israel took all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of the land.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, "Do not look at his appearance or at the height of his stature, because I have rejected him. For God knoweth not what man knoweth; for a man looketh on the appearance, but Jehovah looketh on the heart."
and almost all things are purified with blood according to the law, and without blood-shedding there is no remission.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are along by the side of the Arnon, three hundred years; why didn't ye recover them within that time?
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the stronghold; come forth, and go into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Hareth.
And Samuel said unto Saul: Suffer me, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath said unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
Now Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee-ward very good;
And he shall take the tenth of thy seed, and your vineyards and give to his officers, and to his servants.
I can do all things through Christ, that enabled me.
And the weight of the golden rings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; beside ornaments, and collars, and purple raiment that was upon the kings of Midian, and besides the chains which were about their camels' necks
And princes in Issachar with Deborah Yea, Issachar right with Barak, into the valley he was sent on his feet. In the courses of Reuben, Great the decrees of heart.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter: thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that afflict me; for I have opened my mouth, unto Jehovah, and I cannot go back.
"Speak to the lords of Shechem, 'What is better for you, that seventy men all from the sons of Jerub-Baal rule over you, or that one man ruleth over you?' Remember that I am thy bone and thy flesh."
The one preach Christ of contention, not uprightly supposing to add affliction to my bonds, Onesimus,
And man riseth to pursue thee and to seek thy soul, and the soul of my lord hath been bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; as to the soul of thine enemies, he will sling them out in the midst of the hollow of the sling.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of heavenly calling, consider the apostle and High priest of our confession, Jesus,
David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, "What have I done? What is my iniquity? What is my sin before your father, that he seeketh my life?"
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, "What doth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews mean?" They perceived that Yahweh's ark was come into the camp.
And they said, "There must be a remnant for Benjamin, so that a tribe shall not be blotted out of Israel.
And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he found a fresh jaw through of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew with it a thousand men.
So the woman, running quickly, gave her husband saying, I have seen the man that came unto me the other day.
Now at that time Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, was judging Israel.
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, "May Jehovah call the enemies of David to account."
and tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come
And he went to his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of for. being seventy persons, on one stone, but Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.
Seeing therefore that shall abide that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of disobedience;
And Saul sent to Jesse, and saying, Let David stand before me: for he hath found favor in my sight.
Wherefore Adoni-zedek said, Seventy kings, whose thumb and great toe had been cut off, rose broken food under my table. as I have done, so hath God done unto me in full. And they took him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
But thou hast this day rejected your God, who himself saveth you out of all your calamities and your distresses. and thou hast said unto him, 'No! Set a king over us.' Now therefore present yourselves in the sight of Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands."
That from year to year the daughters of Israel assemble together, and lament the daughter of Jephte the Gileadite for four days.
because this the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah, shall put my laws into their mind, and upon their heart will I write them, and I will be to them a God, and they shall be my people;
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.
And ye have cried in that day because of the king whom ye have chosen for yourselves, and Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.'
And the Spirit of Jehovah rushed upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon; and And he slew thirty men from them, and he took their belongings, and he gave festival garments to those that that expounded the riddle. He was wroth, and he went up to his father's house.
Samuel said unto Saul, "Why have thou disquieted me, to bring me up?" Saul answered, "I am very grieved: and for the Philistines make war against me, and God hath departed from me, and answereth me no more, by prophets, or by dreams. Therefore I have called you, that ye may make known unto me what I shall do."
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead begat Jephthah.
But with whom was he grieved forty years, was it not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
And there was no loss of anything, small or great, sons or daughters, or stuff or anything which they had taken away: David gathered it all back.
Where the forerunner Jesus is entered for us, made a high priest for ever according to my love
Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he brake the withs, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire. And his strength was known.
He turned about from him to another over against him, and he spake unto him in like manner and the people answered him as beforetime.
Now therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath drove out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and should ye possess them?
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. And they rose up, and went away that night.
And when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.
And Gideon son of Joash returned from the battle, at the ascent of the sun,
saying, This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath enjoined unto you.
And Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people greatly feared Jehovah, and Samuel.
And when he had left speaking, he cast the jaw through out of his hand; and that place was called Ramah Lehi.
when the ends of the sickle; and the hoes, and the flesh-hooks, and the axes were blunted; and to set the the goad.
And David said unto Saul, "Your servant hath been a shepherd of the flock for his father. If the lion or the bear would come and carry off a sheep from the coupling.
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men all of these men of valor;
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul, and when Saul saw any strong man, or any valiant man he took him unto him.
And the woman came and spake unto her husband, saying, A man of God hath come unto me, and whose appearance was like the appearance of an angel of God, very terrible; and I have not asked him whence he is, that his name he told me;
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept back his servant from evil; But Jehovah hath returned Nabal's evil upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigal to take her to be his wife.
And Manoah arose, and followed his wife, and came up to the man and said unto him, Art thou the man that talked with this woman? And he said, I am.
For it is evident that our Lord hath sprung out of Judah, as to which tribe Moses spake nothing as to priests.
Therefore I sent him the more speedily; that seeing him again, ye may rejoice, and I may be without sorrow.
And the Philistines followed hard after Saul and his sons, and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.
And the me, to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, over against the waste?
And the men of Israel have turned, and the men of Benjamin are troubled, for they have seen that the evil hath touched them,
And may my God supply all your want; according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now, for he came to day to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to-day in the high place;
And we have both straw and provender for our asses: and I have bread and wine also for me, and for thy maid-servant, and for the young man with thy servants; there is no lack of nothing.
But take heed to the days after you had seen the light, when ye went through a great war of affliction;
and the golden mice, [according to] the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both fortified cities, and villages of the peasantry; [and they brought them] as far as the great [stone of] Abel, whereon they set down the ark of Jehovah, is unto this day in the field of Joshua the Beth-shemeshite.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant, which God hath commanded them to you.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in the strongholds of En-gedi.
Wherefore didst thou keep silence among the sheep, hearing nothing but the watchmen piping to the sheep?
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who by the Holy Spirit offered oneself unspotted unto God, cleanse our conscience from dead works, to serve the living God?
And they rose up early in the morning on the morrow, and, behold, Dagon is fallen upon the face to the earth, before the ark of Jehovah, and the head of Dagon, and the two palms of its hands are cut off at the threshold, only the fishy part shall be left unto him;
And the border of the Amorites ran from the ascent of Akrabbim, from Selah and upward.
And by faith Abraham, when he was made trial, offered Isaac, and he that received the promises was ready to offer his only son,
And there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the men of Israel rise and Judah, and shout, and pursue the Philistines until thou enter the valley, and unto the gates of Ekron, and the wounded of the Philistines fall in the way of Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron,
But day and night they were as a wall round us, while we were with them, expecting after the sheep.
"Through the window she looked forth, and cried: Sisera's mother looked out at the lattice. 'Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why do the wheels of his chariots wait?'
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me with the son of Jesse, giving him food and a sword and drawers of inquire of Jehovah for him, and helping him to stand up against me, and to be on the watch to make a secret hands on me as he doeth now?
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years,
Now David had said, "Surely in vain have I kept all that this man hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was want of all that pertaineth unto him. He hath returned me evil for good.
And the heads of the Philistines were wroth with him, and the heads of the Philistines say unto him, Send back the man, and he shall return unto his place whither thou hast appointed him, and shall not go down with us into battle, and is not to us for an adversary in battle; and wherewith shall this one reconcile them himself unto his lord is it not with the heads of them men?'
Make an altar unto Jehovah your God on the top of this rock, in the appointed way and take the ox and make a burnt-offering with the wood of the oaks which hath been cut down.
For unto me, to live is Christ; and to die is gain.
In those days was there no king in Israel. And in those days the tribe of the Danites sought border for itself to dwell in, because until that day it had not been allotted border among the tribes of Israel.
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
And do not forget to do good, and to impart; for by such sacrifices God's favor is obtained.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of offering the gift, he sent away the people that had borne the gift.
and in fashion having been found as a man, he humbled himself, having become obedient unto death, death even of a cross,
Then the men of the city said to Joash, Make thy son come out to be put to death, to break down, the altar of Baal, and cut down the oaks which was by it.
And Saul saith unto the people that were with him, `Inspect, I pray you, and see; who hath gone from us?' and they miss it; and, behold, Jonathan and when his armorbearer are not.
Now on their way, when David returned after the destruction of the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, with songs and dances, meeting David with tabret and joy and instruments of music.
behold, I will put a fleece of wool on the threshing threshing-floor, but if there be dew upon the fleece only, and it is dry upon all the ground, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken."
Let God's do so to David, if when morning cometh there is so much as one male of his people yet alive.
And when he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering behold, Samuel came; and Saul went forth to meet him, and salute him.
Revile Meroz fully, said an angel of Jehovah, There is nought curse ye the inhabitants thereof, For they came not to the help of Jehovah to the help of Jehovah among the mighty!
Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? Will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant." Jehovah said, "He shall come down."
And Saul saw and knew that Jehovah was with David; and Michal Saul's daughter loved him.
So Jesse made Shammah pass before Samuel, but he said, "Yahweh also hath not chosen this one."
Salute all them that would lead thou, and all the saints; salute you shall those from Italy:
And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me into the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them unto the sacrifice.
looking stedfastly on Jesus the leader and completer of faith: who, in sight of the joy lying before him, endured cross, having despised shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And they gave answer, We will gladly give them. So they put down a robe, every man dropping into it the ear-rings he had taken.
Samuel answered Saul and said, "I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, and ye shall eat with me this day; then I will send thee away in the morning. I will tell thee all that is upon your mind.
And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took firebrands, and turned tail to tail, and put a brand in the midst between two tails
The burden of gold ear-rings which he rose from them was one thousand seven hundred shekels of gold; besides the moon-ornaments and jewels and the purple garments which were on the kings of Midian, and the chains on their camels' necks
Do all things without murmurings and questioning,
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
And when Jehovah raised up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it repented Jehovah because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and crushed them.
Blessed above women is Jael, Wife of Heber the Kenite, Above women in the tent she is blessed.
And he said unto him, Behold, there is a man of God in this city, a famous man: all that he said, cometh surely to pass. Now therefore let us go thither, haply he may tell us of our way, for which we are come.
And they slew the bullock, and they brought the lad unto Eli.
So David and Abishai came to the people by night; and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the rampart; and his spear caught hold of the ground at his bolster: but Abner and the people lay round about him.
And the watchers, rushing on Gibeah and over-running it, put all the city to the sword without mercy.
David therefore departed from thence, and escaped alone to the cave of Adullam. When his brethren, and all his father's house heard it, they went down there unto him.
Now Jonathan said, Thou shalt not have such a mind; for if I saw that my father was devised devices against you, would I not give you word of it?
And he came to the folds by the way, and a cave was there; and Saul went in to refresh himself. Now David and his men were sitting in the innermost parts of the cave.
And Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed and his anger was kindled;
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehemjudah, and I go to sojourn where I shall find a place.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom; and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines; and whithersoever he turned himself, he vexed them.
Now Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace: and let all stand that we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever.
And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin were astonished; for they saw that wickedness was come upon them.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, If thou hinder me I will not eat of thy bread; and if thou prepare a burnt-offering unto Jehovah thou shalt offer it;' for Manoah knew not that He an angel of Jehovah.
Now David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul,
For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it pleased Jehovah to make thee his people.
And Samuel said unto all the people, Seest thou the man of the Lord's anointed, how there is none like him among all the people? And all the people with shouting said, Long live the king.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and served the Baalim.
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah!
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the peoples that were round about them, and bowed down themselves to them; and they provoked Jehovah to anger.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, and most desired, my joy and my crown; so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleating of the flocks, which soundeth in mine ears, and the lowing of the herds, which I hear?
and they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-Heres, in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of mount Gaash;
And Midian was stronger than Israel; and because of the Midianites, the children of Israel digged for themselves in the mountains, and furrows in the rocks, and strongholds thereof.
And he gave them a diligent beating, and he went down and tarried in a cleft of the rock of Etam.
And Gideon went up the way of them that dwell in the tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and he smote the host when it was off its guard.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul putteth the people in three detachments, and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning-watch, and smite Ammon until the heat of the day; and it came to pass, that they left are scattered, and there have not been left of them two together.
but if it beareth thorns and thistles, it is rejected and near being cursed, whose end is to be burned.
(The in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, Come let us go to the Seer, for he that now is called prophet was in those days given the name of Seer.)
And Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph;
And David said unto the Philistine: Thou shalt come unto me with a sword, and with a spear and with a shield: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the forces of Israel, which thou hast defied.
So David rose up early, he and his men, to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines, and the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, "What is the noise of this loud shouting in the camp of the Hebrews?" Then they knew that the ark of Jehovah had come into the camp.
Wherefore God hath exalted far him, and given him a name which is above every name:
O Jehovah, when thou wentest out of Seir, and passedst by the regions of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped water.
When ye come into the city ye shall see him straight away, before he goeth up to the high place for the feast: the people shall be for his blessing before beginning the feast, and after that the guests will eat thereof. So go up now and ye shall see him.
and the peace of God, which passeth every understanding, shall guard your hearts and thy thoughts by Christ Jesus.
And a certain woman cast an upper millstone upon Abimelech's head, and brake his own pate.
With such force that the haft went in after the sickle into the wound, and was closed up with the abundance of fat. So that he did not draw out the spear in his hand; but left it in his body as he had smote it in. And straightway by the secret parts of nature the excrements of the belly came out.
concluding that God is able to raise up even from the dead. Figuratively speaking, he also received him back from the dead.
And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art: and I will speak of thee to my father, and whatsoever I shall see, I will tell thee.
And he smote them from Aroer, which is until thou come to Minnith, twenty cities, even unto Abel-Cheramim, with a very great slaughter; and the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
A brazen helmet was upon his head, and he was clothed with shekel body armor; the weight of the body armor was five thousand brazen shekels.
And the sons of Eli were wicked men: they didn't know Jehovah.
Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds to hear the bleatings of the sheep? For the courses of Reuben there were great searchings of heart.
But the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna; even now in thy hand that we are to give bread to your host?
So Achish straightway gave him Ziklag: and therefore Ziklag, hath been the possession of the kings of Judah unto this day.
Do not multiply your words of pride, let not vain-glory come out of your mouth; For Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him deeds are weight.
To him succeeded Ahialon a Zabulonite: and he judged Israel ten years:
And David said, Jehovah, who delivered me out of the hand of the lion and out of the hand of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
So they ran and took him from thence, and when he took his stand among the people, he was taller than all the people from his shoulders and up.
Among all these soldiers there were seven hundred chosen men that were left-handed. Every one of them could sling a stone at a hair and not miss.
Now when Samuel heard all the words of the people, he teach them diligently in the ears of Jehovah.
And Midian is bowed down before the children of Israel, and have not added to lift up their head; and the land resteth forty years in the days of Gideon.
Women received by the resurrection their dead, and others tortured, not had respect of the redemption that a better resurrection they might receive,
Then the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, cut down twenty and two thousand of the children of Israel that day.
Now of the things we are saying this is the chief point: We have such a high priest, who hath taken his place at the right hand of God's throne of glory in heaven,
Then Samuel said unto the people, "Come, let us go to Gilgal, and let us renew the kingdom there."
And the battle went sore for Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was distressed by reason of the archers.
Then Zebah and Zalmunna; said, "Rise and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength." Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna; and took the crescents that were on their camels' necks
For if a man at any time shall arise, and persecute thee, and seek thy life, the soul of my lord shall be kept, as in the bundle of the living, with Jehovah thy God: but the souls of thine enemies shall be whirled, as with the violence and whirling of a sling.
I have a maid daughter, and this man hath a concubine, I will bring them out unto you, and ye shall humble them, and satisfy thy lust: only, I beseech you, commit not this amiss against nature on the man.
Samuel said unto Saul, "You have done foolishly. Ye have not kept the commandment of Jehovah your God, which he commanded you; for now Jehovah would have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
And he said unto his lad; Go, and fetch me the arrows which I shoot. And when the lad ran, he shot another arrow beyond the lad drink.
Therefore the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
And Jerubbaal son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house,
which we have as anchor of the soul, both sure and fast, and entered into that within the veil,
Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear.
So with these words David kept his servants back, and showed them lay siege against Saul. And Saul arose and went his way.
"But they forgat Jehovah their God: and he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab; and they fought against them.
Kings came,they fought; Then fought the kings of Canaan; At Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo. And they took no spoil of silver.
Yet I supposed it necessary therefore to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother, and companion in labor, and fellow-soldier, but your messenger, and he that ministered unto my needeth.
And there was none to save; because it was far from Sidon, and they had no dealings with any man else; and it was in the valley that lieth by and Rehob. And they built the city, and dwelt therein.
And his wife unto him, If Jehovah had fain kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and drink-offerings at our hands, neither would he have showed us all these things, nor have told us the things that are to come.
And afterward the children of Judah gone down to fight against the Canaanite, that sitteth above the hill-country, and the South, and the low country;
And they said unto him, "Look, thou art old and your children may not follow in thy ways: So then appoint a king for us to judge us, as all the nations.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy out Beth-el; now the name of the city beforetime was at the first.
And we also shall be as all the nations: and our king shall judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles for us.
and David inquired of Jehovah, saying, I pursue after this troop should I overtake it?' And he said unto him, `Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake, and shalt surely deliver.'
And she said, "Surely I will go with thee; however, there shall be no glory for you in the path thou shalt dispossess, for Jehovah will sell Sisera, into the hand of a woman." And Deborah stood up and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Now when Saul returned from following the Philistines, tidings was given him that David was in the wilderness of En-gedi.
The children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities to Gibeah, to go forth to battle against the children of Israel.
and she sent and called for Barak son of Abinoam from Kedesh Naphtali and said unto him, "Has not Jehovah, the God of Israel, commanded you? 'Go, march unto mount Tabor, and take ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and Zebulun;
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to fight with the Midianites? And they strove with him sharply.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life, seeketh thy life also, and with me thou shalt be saved.
"Jael shall be blessed above women, the wife of Heber the Kenite; blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
And there was war again: and David went out fighting the Philistines, and with great destruction among them; and they fled before him.
And David took all of the sheep, and the cattle they drove along before that cattle, and they said, "This is David's plunder."
And David dwelt with Achis at Gath, he and his men: every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, shut up before Jehovah: and his name was Doeg, the Edomite; chief of the shepherds that to Saul.)
he humbled himself having become obedient to the point of death, that is, death on a tree.
but when Saul saw that he was very do he was sore threatened by him.
And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
But encourage yourselves every day, as long as it is called To-day, that none of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin.
And David saved neither man nor woman, neither brought he any of them to Gath, saying, Lest they should speak against us. So did David, and such was his proceeding all the days that he dwelt in the country of the Philistines.
Behold, thou hast seen this day how Jehovah gave you up into my hands even now in the hollow of the rocks: and some would have had me put thee to death, but I had pity upon you: for I said, shall never be lifted up my hand against my lord, who hath been anointed with oil.
for [it is] evident that out of Judah hath arisen our Lord, whereunto tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.
And depart not hence, till I return unto thee, and bring a sacrifice, and offer it unto thee. And he said, I will wait thy coming.
And Samson said, With the jaw through of an ass, heaps upon heaps, with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
Behold; if it goeth up by the way of its own border to Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil; but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance which befell us."
And one of the people of that place answered, And who is their father's presence, so it became a common saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
and I ask also thee, true yoke-fellow, be assisting those women that in the gospel strove with me, with Clement also, and the others, my fellow-workers, whose names in the book of life.
there salute you all the saints, and specially they of Caesar's house;
Whence neither the first was inaugurated without blood.
And by faith Enoch was taken up to heaven, that he did not see death; he was seen no more, for God took him away: for before he was taken, witness had been given that he was well-pleasing unto God:
And the rulers of the Philistines came up unto her, and said, "Entice him and find out what maketh his strength so great and how we can prevail against him, so that we may bind him up in order to subdue him; each one of us will give you eleven hundred pieces of silver.
as to the rest, expecting until he may place his enemies his footstool:
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God is taken.
Men lying privately in wait with her, and in the chamber looking for the event of the thing, and she cried out unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, Samson. And he brake the bands, as a man shall break a thread of tow twined with spittle, when it smelleth the fire: so it was not known wherein his strength Jay.
But he put of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had seen the ark of Jehovah: and he slew of the people seventy persons, and fifty thousand of the common people. And the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah, of the Abiezrites.
Now a little while, and after, at the time of the harvest, Samson, taking with him a kid, went to see his wife; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the bride's chamber. But her father would not let him go in.
And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning. And it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up the pillar, and hath turned about, and passed on, and gone down to Gilgal.
And Samuel said unto the people, "Do not afraid; Thou hast wrought all this evil; only do not turn aside from following Jehovah; But thou shalt serve Jehovah with all your heart.
And when they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levites) so they turned aside there, and said unto him, "Who brought you here? What doest thou in this place? What hast thou here?"
And I took her and cut her in pieces, and sent the parts into all the borders of your possession; because there never was should do such a villany, O and so great an abomination committed in Israel.
A minister of the most holy place, and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hath planted, and not man.
And he said unto him, We are to pass from Beth-lehem-judah toward the side of mount Ephraim: from thence am I: and I went to Bethlehemjudah, but I am to the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receiveth me to house.
that ye be not sluggard, but imitators of them, that through faith and patience shall inherit the gifts falsely.
For whom Jehovah loveth he reproveth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
Brethren, I do not count to have gathered possession myself; but one thingforgetting the things behind them; and stretched out unto the things beforehand,
behold, I put a fleece of wool on the threshing-floor, but if dew shall be on the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the ground, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
But of which of the angels hath he said at any time, Sit thou on my right hand, Until I make thine enemies the footstool of your feet?
And now, behold, I know that ye shall surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And she sat under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went up to her for judgment.
Now Zebul, the governor of the city, hearing what Gaal, the son of Ebed had said, was moved to anger.
And Israel set liers-in-wait round about Gibeah.
And the two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David abode in the wood: but Jonathan returned to his house.
And to the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words, the hearers of which besought him that not a word more might be said unto them,
But Saul, signifying his spear at him, assayed to give him a wound: from which it was known unto Jonathan that his father's would have put David to death.
And Jephthah judged Israel six years: then died Jephthah the Gileadite, and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
Now David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites and the Girzites and the Amalekites, for they had been in the land for a long time in the hand of Shur and as far as the land of Egypt.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall despair concerning me, to seek me any more in any coast of Israel: So shall I escape out of his hand.
And the chiefs of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, took their places in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen; armed with swords.
And Saul said, Hear now, O son of Ahitub, And he said, Here am I, my lord.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel: and he said, Because that this people have transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
by faith he did sojourn in the land of the promise as a strange fields, in tents having dwelt with Isaac, and Jacob, fellow-heirs of the same promise,
And he said unto him, Behold, I pray thee, a man of God in this city, and the man is honoured; all that he speaketh will surely come; now, we go there, it may be he will tell us our way upon which we have gone.'
And they said, If ye are sending away the ark of the God of Israel, ye shall not send him away empty; for ye shall surely send back to him a trespass-offering: then ye are healed, and it shall be known unto you why his hand shall not depart from you.'
Be strong, and behave like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants to the Hebrews, as they have been unto you. Strengthen ye yourselves like men, and fight!"
Jehovah be it from me to stretch out my hand upon Yahweh's anointed; but now I pray thee, take the spear that is at his head, and the pitcher of water, and let us go."
And the people, the chief men of Gilead, said one to another, Who is the man that shall begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
Samuel said unto the people, "Don't therefore: ye have indeed wrought all this evil; yet don't turn aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart.
So Samuel called unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain that day. And all the people greatly feared Jehovah, and Samuel.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
called by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
And he brake down the tower of Penuel, and he slew the men of the city.
And when he came, behold, Eli was sitting upon the throne by the way-side watching: for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And the man came to tell it in the city, and all the city cried out.
And the elders of Gilead say unto Jephthah, Jehovah be Hearkening between us if according to thy word we do not so.'
and the border of the Amorite from the ascent of Akrabbim, from the rock and upward.
for we are the circumcision, that by the Spirit are serving God, and glorying in Christ Jesus, and in the flesh having no trust,
And to Jesus the mediator of the covenant, and to the sprinkling of blood that speaketh better than that of Abel.
But if I say thus unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way: for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
And it came to pass, as soon as Gideon died, the children of Israel returned, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and they made them Baal-Berith as god.
and they turn aside there to go in to lodge in Gibeah, and he went in, and sat in the street of the city, and there is no man gathering them into the house to lodge in.
and the Philistines called unto the priests and to them that practised divination, saying, "What should we do with the ark of Jehovah? Make ye mention to us how we should send it to its place."
And a certain woman cast an upper millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all to brake his own pate.
This day Jehovah will shut thee up into my hand, and I have smitten thee, and turned aside thy head from off thee, and given the carcass of the camp of the Philistines this day to the birds of the heavens, and for the beasts of the earth, and all the earth may know that God is for Israel.
For this cause Jesus was put to death without the walls, So that he might make the people holy by his blood.
And the olive-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to wave over the trees?
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave change of garments unto them that expounded the riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.
So all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah:
And by faith Enoch was interpreted, that he should not see death; and was not; for God had interpreted, him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.
And the king said, Ask thou whose son this even the young man.'
And the angel of God said unto him, "Take the food and unleavened wafers, or lay them on this rock, and pour out the broth." And he did so.
In that day I will raise up against Heli all the things have I spoken concerning his house, I will begin to and I will make an end.
And Sisera, hath fled on his feet unto the tent of Jael wife of Heber the Kenite, for peace between Jabin king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite;
And it shall come to pass, she is riding upon the ass, and cometh down in the secret part of the hill-country, and behold, David and his men are coming down to meet her, and she meeteth them.
And Jehovah raised up judges, and they saved them out of the hand of those that despoil them.
Make prayers for us; for we know that our heart is free from the interpretation of sin, desiring the right way of life in all things.
And what shall I yet say? for the time will fail me telling about Gideon, Barak also, and Samson, and Jephthah, David also, and Shemuel, and the prophets,
and these ten cuttings of the cheese thou shalt take in to the head of the thousand, and thy brethren shalt thou visit for welfare, and their pledge shalt receive.'
And the sons of Eli were worthless scoundrels; they knew not Jehovah.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath hearkened unto thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which yea, thou spakest unto me.
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father-in-law, had gone up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which is in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt with the people.
And the sound of the trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard entreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more:
And Abdon the son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of Amalek.
And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
And Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle, from the ascent of destruction.
Now when Saul's old friends saw him among the band of prophets, the people said one to another, What is come to Saul, the son of Kish? Is even Saul among the prophets?
but only the high priest goeth into the second tent once a year, not without blood, which he offereth for himself and the sins of the people committed done unwittingly.
And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? or what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
Then the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, "We have sinned against you; We have forsaken our God and served the Baals."
Gideon said unto them, "I shall not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah shall rule over you."
And inquired of him concerning their estate. At that time the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there,
And being full of the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And he judgeth Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
The me, to Saul at Gibeah, saying, "Is not David hiding in the mount of Hakilah over against Jeshimon?"
And the children of Dan said unto him, Say no more, or men of bitter spirit may lay siege against you, and cause loss of thy life and the lives of thy people.
And it was told Sisera, that Barac the son of Ablinoem was gone up to mount Thabor:
But the woman, at the dawning of the day, came to the door of the house where her lord lodged, and there fell down.
But thou didst well to have care for me in my need.
And Saul said, Bring a burnt-offering unto me, and peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
David and his men went up and raided the Geshurites, the Girzites, and the Amalekites; for those were the inhabitants of the land, that were of old, on the way unto Shur even to the land of Egypt.
So Jonathan made a covenant with David's house, saying, "Yahweh will require it at the hand of David's enemies."
The trees hath diligently gone to anoint over them a king: and they say to the olive-tree, Reign thou over us.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken in pieces; out of heaven shall he thunder upon them: and Jehovah shall judge the ends of the earth; and he shall give strength unto his king, And exalt the horn of his anointed.
And he said, "This shall be the custom of the king that will reign over thee; he will take thy sons and appoint them to his chariots and his horsemen, and they will run before his chariots.
But if ye will yet do wickedly; both ye and your king shall be consumed together.
And he went also into Gaza, and saw there a woman a harlot, and went in unto her.
And after him Ibzan of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
And Saul and his men went to seek him, and they told David, so he went down to the rock and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when he heard it, he pursued David into the wilderness of Maon.
Now these things having been thus prepared, the priests go in continually into the first tabernacle, have performed the ministrations,
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit said, To-day if ye shall hear his voice,
Is it not wheat-harvest to-day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; and ye shall perceive and see that thy wickedness is great which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah in asking for yourselves a king.
And messengers hath sent Gideon into all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down to meet Midian, and take before them the waters unto Beth-Barah, and the Jordan;' and every man of Ephraim is called, and they took the waters unto Beth-Barah, and the Jordan
But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.
And the king said unto her, What do ye ye not. "Don't see?" And the woman said unto Saul, "I see a god coming up out of the earth."
And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that Eli marked her mouth.
Then said Saul unto Samuel, I have surely hearkened to the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed Amalek.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, "Did I not deliver thee from the Egyptians, the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
But when morning was come, the Levite prepared to go on his journey. And his father-in-law said unto him again a second time, I beseech thee to take a little food, and strengthening thyself, until the day be further advanced, after that thou shalt depart. So they did eat together.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines, and the Philistines have gone to their place;
Then all the elders of Israel being gathered together, came to Samuel to Ramatha.
And they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.
Samson lay until midnight, and arose at midnight, and laid hold of the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts thereof, and plucked them up, bar and all, and put them on his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of the mountain that lieth before Hebron.
I will shoot three arrows to the side as though I were shooting at a shield.
And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled to day out of the host. And he said, What is there done, my son?
So then take your stand again and see this great thing that Jehovah will do before your eyes.
So David took the spear, and the cup of water, which was at Saul's head, and they went away, and no man saw it, or knew it, or awaked, and they were all asleep, for a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
Will the citizens of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And when the time was that Elkanah offered, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters; portions,
And the priest said unto them, "Go in peace. Jehovah is in front of thee by the way ye go on."
If then ye have dealt truly and sincerely with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you:
So David prevailed over the Philistine, with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
Now Heber the Kenite, separating himself from the rest of the Kenite, from the children of Hobab, the husband's brother of Moses, had pitched his tent as far as the oak in Zaanannim, by Kedesh.
And it was so, from that time forth, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And the five men that went out to spy out the land (the same is Laish) answered and said to their kindred, "Do ye know that there are in these houses an ephod, teraphim, and an idol of cast metal? Now therefore consider what thou shalt do."
And Elkanah her husband, and all his house, went up to sacrifice unto Jehovah the yearly sacrifice and his vow.
And he stayed yet other seven days, according to the set time that Samuel [had appointed]; but Samuel came not to Gilgal: and the people were scattered from him.
Then said Saul unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, "Render determined perfectly." Jonathan and Saul were chosen by lot and the people went out.
Jehovah forbid me from stretch out my hand upon Yahweh's anointed: now therefore, I pray thee, take the spear that is near his head and the pitcher of water, and let us go."
But the fig-tree said unto them, Shall I give up my sweet taste and my good fruit and go wave over the trees?
Therefore Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house is.
And Judah took Gaza, and the border thereof, and Askelon and the border thereof, and Ekron and the crown thereof;
And the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And thou, Jehovah, at the first did put the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of your hand;
Wherefore God exalted far him, and gave him a name, that which is above every name,
Give heed O kings; give ear, O rulers. I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee: and as soon as ye be up early in the morning, and have light, depart.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And Saul sent messengers to take David; and when they saw the band of prophets at work, with Samuel in his place in the forefront of the Spirit of God came upon Saul's men, and they became as prophets.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the travail of death, crowned with glory and honor: that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou didst not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines were assembled onward, at Michmash
Thus God rendered the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, in slaying his seventy brethren:
And Judah said to Simeon his brother, Go up with me into my lot, and we fight against the Canaanite, the and I have gone, even I, with thee into thy lot;' and Simeon went with him.
And it came to pass the morrow after the new moon, the second [day of the month], as David's place was empty, that Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Why hath not the son of Jesse come to table, neither yesterday nor to-day?
David sent forth spies, and learned that Saul was certainly come.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house; and David played with his hand, as at the other times: and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
And now, behold, I know that thou shalt surely reign; and the kingdom of Israel hath stood in thy hand;
For verily he took not on him the nature of angels; but he took upon him the seed of Abraham.
Wherefore receive this blessing which thy handmaid hath brought unto thee, my lord: and give it unto the young men that follow thee, my lord.
So Samuel made all the tribes of Israel came near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
for unto me to live Christ, and to die gain.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the South, and in the valley.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid: as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan, that he died not.
And I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at length ye budded, again in cared for me; for which also ye were caring, and lacked opportunity;
Then David fastened on his sword over his fighting raiment; but he tried in vain to walk about, for he was not trained to use them. So David said unto Saul, "I am not able to walk with these, for I am not trained to use them." So David removed them.
There was a man of Ramathaimsophim, of the hill-country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Toah, the son of Suph, an Ephraimite:
Now the children of Israel were among the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
When they were at Jebus, and the day was far spent, and the servant said unto his master, "Please, come, let us turn aside to this city of the Jebusites, and let us lodge in it."
and the lamp of God had not yet gone out, Samuel was lying in the temple of Jehovah, after that the ark of God was.
Then he said unto her, Give me now a little water, for I have need of a drink. And openeth the skin of milk, she gave him drink, and put the mercy-seat above upon him again.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we here in Judah are afraid; and how much more when we go to Keilah, unto the flocks of the Philistines?'
He smote of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into Yahweh's ark, he smote fifty thousand seventy of the persons, and the people mourn, because Jehovah had smitten the people with a great slaughter.
Not that I speak as touching privation, for as unto me I have learn in those degree wherein I am, to be satisfied in myself.
the Holy Spirit showing this, that the way of the [holy of] most is not yet been made manifest While as yet the first tabernacle hath standing:
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took the sword and fell upon it.
And Saul and his men went to seek it. And they told David; and he came down from the rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard it, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
And all the children of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, heard that the Philistines fled, joined themselves with their brethren in the battle, and there were with Saul about ten thousand men.
And Zebah and Zalmunna; fled, and he pursued after them, and he took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna; and discomfited all the camp.
On the morrow the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech;
Then the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And the children of Israel did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asheroth.
And Manoah said unto the angel of Jehovah, "What is thy name that, when thy words come true we may honor you?"
and I say, Now do the Philistines come down unto me to Gilgal, and the face of Jehovah I have not appeased; and I force myself, and cause the burnt-offering unto ascend.'
And the king of the children of Ammon, however, hearkened not unto the words which Jephthah sent to him.
And his father and his mother knew not that from Jehovah, which a meeting he seeketh of the Philistines; and at that time the Philistines have power over Israel.
And David's men said unto him, "Look, this day is the day whereof Jehovah said unto thee, 'See, I give thine enemy into your hand, and ye can do to him that which is good in you.'" So David arose, and secretly cut the skirts of Saul's robe.
And Gedeon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father in Ephra of the family of Ezri.
Saul's servants spake those words in the ears of David. David said, "Does it seemeth to you a light thing to be the king's son-in-law, since I am a poor man, And lightly esteemed?"
And they answered Saul, Jonathan said, He asked to me that he might go to Beth-lehem,
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel; howbeit the name of the city was Laish at the first.
And as Samuel saw Saul, Jehovah answered and said unto him, Behold, the man of whom I spake unto thee! this man shall rule over my people.
And a spirit of sadness Jehovah is unto Saul, and he was sitting in his house, and his weapon in his hand, and David was sporting with the hand,
For on the one hand a preceding commandment is set aside because of its weakness, and uselessness
For he doth not indeed take hold of angels [by the hand], but he taketh hold of the seed of Abraham.
for I have no one likeminded, that sincerely for the things concerning thou shalt care,
And this man went up out of his city upon the appointed days, to worship and to offer sacrifice to Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Heli, Ophni, and Phinehas, were there priests of Jehovah.
And that were in Hebron, and to the rest that were in those parts: in that David had abode with his men.
Let us go in with true hearts, in certain faith, having our heart made free from the interpretation of sin and our bodies, washed with clean water:
And his concubine, that he had in Shechem, bare him a son, whose name was Abimelech;
Then the children of Israel journeyed the Baalim and the Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
And Saul said unto them, "May thou be blessed by Jehovah, for thou hast showed me compassion!
And Samuel took a young lamb, oblation all of it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel made prayers to Jehovah for Israel and Jehovah gave him no answer.
Then Samuel took the bottle of oil, and put the oil upon him there among his brethren; and from that day the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David with authority. So Samuel returned to Ramah:
For in one place he hath spoken concerning the seventh day, And God had rest from all his works on the seventh day:
Pray for us; for we hope that we have a good conscience; in all things willing to behave well,
how shall we escape if we should forsake so great a salvation which had the beginning when it was spoken through the Lord and was confirmed unto us, who heard,
And Samson turneth aside the two midst pillars, on which the house is established, and whereon it rest thereon; the one with his right hand, and one with his left.
Wherefore, coming into the world, he said, `Sacrifice and offering Thou didst not will, and a body Thou didst prepare for me,
The things which came to you by my teaching and preaching and which thou sawest in me, these things do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
His legs were covered with plates, of brass and hanging upon his back was a spear of brass.
And again, "I will trust in him." And again, "Behold, I and the children God hath given me."
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us to day before the Philistines? Let us fetch the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that, when it came among us, it may save us out of the hand of our adversaries.
And the king said, "You inquire whose son this young man is."
Naphtali also destroyed not the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, and of Bethanath: and he dwelt in the midst of the Canaanite the inhabitants of the land, and the Bethsamites and Bethanites were tributary unto him.
Samuel said, "Why then do ye ask me, seeing Jehovah hath departed from you and is become your adversary?
And let her eat nothing that cometh of the vine, Neither let her wine nor strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; and whatsoever I commanded her, let her fulfil and observest not;
Therefore Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and sought David and his men on the rocks of the mountain goats.
and ye know even ye Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel when I went forth from Macedonia, no assembly did communicate with me in regard of giving and receiving except ye only;
And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hands of messengers, saying, Every one that cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out with one consent.
On the morrow an evil spirit from God came mightily against Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house of David: and David played with his hand, as he did day by day. Saul had his spear in his hand;
And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart exulteth in Jehovah, my horn is lifted up in Jehovah; my mouth is opened wide over mine enemies; For I rejoice in thy salvation.
And they said, What is the trespass-offering which we send back to Him?' and they said, The number of the princes of the Philistines that five golden emerods, and five golden mice shall become one plague unto you all, and to your princes,
And they said unto Jephthah, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
For I have no man of like mind who will truly have care for you.
And when he was come, he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down from the hill-country with him before them;
Let our lord now command your servants that are in front of you to seek out a man that is a skilful well on the harp. Then when the demon from God is upon thee, he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well."
And she said, I will surely go with you, though I will not be honor in thy promise for Jehovah will give Sisera, into the hands of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.
And the young man Samuel did serve Jehovah before Eli, and the word of Jehovah hath been precious in those days for there is no vision broken forth.
Be obedient to them that would lead thee, and be in subjection, for these do watch for your souls: as about to give sakes, that with joy they may do this, and not groaning, for this unprofitable unto you.
But unto the Son he said, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
Then the rulers of the Philistines went out to war: and when they went out, David did more wisely than all the other servants of Saul, so that his name became greatly honored.
and Ehud, came unto him as he sat alone in his cool upper chamber. And Ehud, said, "I have a message from God for you." And he arose from his seat:
And there went out of the camp of the Philistines three companies for a prey. One company went toward the way of Ephra to the land of Sual;
no treader taketh this honor upon himself, but he is called by God, as Aaron was.
Then the remnant went down to the nobles; the people of Jehovah went down for him against the mighty.
So her husband Elkanah said unto her, "Do what seemeth right unto you; tarry till thou wean him. only Jehovah fulfil his word." So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him.
Pursue peace with all, and holiness, without which no one shall see the Lord:
And they said one to another, "Who hath done this thing?" When they inquired and asked, they said, "Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing."
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is an honorable man; all that he saith cometh surely to pass, now let us go thither; peradventure he can show us our way that we should go.
And the woman saw that it was Saul, and she cried out, and said unto Saul, Why hast thou made use of deceit; for thou art Saul.
And an evil spirit from Jehovah came upon Saul, when he was sitting in his house with his spear in his hand; and David piped unto him.
We will take ten men of a hundred out of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred out of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand to bring victuals for the host, that we might fight against Gibeah of Benjamin, and render unto it for their wickedness, what it deserveth.
and Benjamin came out against them from Gibeah on the second day, and destroy among the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men to the earth; all these are drew sword.
and thou hast built an altar unto Jehovah thy God on the top of this stronghold, by the showbread, and hast taken the second bullock, and caused to ascend a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou gatherest down.'
and thou hast heard what they speak, and afterward are thy hands strengthened, and go down against the camp.' And he went down, he and Phurah his young man, unto the uttermost part of the fifties, that in the camp:
And [they of] Beth-shemesh were reap the wheat-harvest in the valley; and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
And the Philistines say, Who hath done this?' And they say, `Samson, son-in-law of the Timnite, because he hath taken away his wife, and gave her to his companion;' and the Philistines go up, and burn her and her father with fire.
What more shall I say? For the time would faint me if I told of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the prophets;
But will not the man through whom the Son of God hath trodden under foot, and the blood of the covenant with which he was washed clean hath been taken as an unholy thing, and who hath despised the Spirit of grace, be judged bad enough for a very much worse punishment?
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated lawlessness; because of this God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the olive oil of joy more than your fellows.
And the Spirit of Jehovah was in him, and he judged Israel. And he went out to battle, and Jehovah delivered into his hands Chusan Rasathaim king of Syria, and he overthrew him.
They are come into the land of Zuph, and Saul hath said unto his young man that were with him, Come, and let us turn back, lest my father leave off from the asses, and be sorrowful for us.'
Saul said, "Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son." Jonathan was taken:
Then all the wicked men and base fellows, of them that went with David, answered and said, "Because they didn't go with us, we will not give them anything of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife, and his children, that he may lead them away, and depart."
For the man that cometh into his rest hath had rest from his works, that God had done from his.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power.
And after that the children of Judah went down to make war with the Canaanites that dwell in the hill-country, and in the south and in the lowlands.
And another went by the way of Beth-horon, and the third turned to the way of the border, above the valley of Zeboiim, down upon the desert.
Now no engraver, was found in all the land of Israel, for the Philistines had said, "So that the Hebrews cannot make swords or spears for themselves."
And they that were full have hired themselves out for bread. And those that were hungry are satisfied; yea, the barren hath borne seven. She that hath many children languisheth.
And now I have not sinned against you, but ye do me wrong to war against me: Jehovah the Judge be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon."
And David is in all his ways, and deal wisely, and Jehovah with him,
In that he saith, "A new covenant", he hath made the first old. But that which is waxed old and groweth aged is near to vanishing away.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
And Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this time, O God; And I am avenged even vengeance at once because of my two eyes on the Philistines.'
And Saul armed David with his armor, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head; and he armed him with a coat of mail.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth you.
There is none to be holy as Jehovah, for there is none besides thee, neither is there any rock like our God.
And the chiefs in Issachar were with Deborah; and Issachar likewise was with Barak; into the valley he was sent to get him from behind. Among the families of Reuben were great ordinances of the heart.
who, subsisting in the form of God, did not esteem it an instrument of extortion to be on an equality with God.
And the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up unto Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Tell me, how was this wickedness?
And the man riseth to go, and his father-in-law urged him, and he returned and lodgeth there.
then it shall not be an obstacle for you or a stumblingblock of conscience for my lord either by shed blood without cause or by my lord taking matters into his own hands. And when Jehovah doeth good unto my lord, then remember your female servant."
And now, I pray thee, my lord the king hear the words of his servant: if Jehovah hath moved thee against me, let him accept a meal-offering; and if the sons of men and cursed they before Jehovah, because they have cast me out this day from being heads into the inheritance of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And by faith Noah, being warned about things not yet seen, out of reverence set up an ark for the salvation of his family, by which he gave judgment upon the world and became an heir of righteousness, which cometh by faith.
And David said to Abner, Art not thou a man? and who like thee, in Israel? but why hast thou not watched over thy lord the king? for one of the people had come in to destroy the king, thy lord.
When his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law. Before the deadline,
and David heard that Nabal dead, and said, Blessed be Jehovah, who hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and his servant hath kept back from evil, and the wickedness of Nabal hath Jehovah turned back upon his own head;' and David sent and he spake kindly to Abigal to take her to be his wife.
Be Jehovah judge, and judge between me and thee, and see; and judge my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And the inhabitants of Shechem put secret watchmen on the tops of the mountains, and they smote them in all that passed by on the way, and took their goods; and word of this came unto Abimelech;
Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this base fellow, Nabal; for as his name is, even so is he: Nabal is his name, and folly is with him; and Thy handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
only let your behavior seemly adorn the gospel of Christ, so that if I come and see you or if I am away from you, I may have heard of thee, that thou art strong in one spirit, working together with one soul for the faith of the gospel.
This thing is not good, that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, thou art the sons of death, that have not kept thy master, the Lord's anointed. And now where is the king's spear, and the cup of water, which was at his own head.
Not that I have received this, or have already been perfected; but I press upon if so be that I may lay hold of that for which also I was laid hold of by Christ.
That ye may prove the better things, that ye may be unfeigned and without stumbling-block unto the day of Christ,
Wherein God, willing to show more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his purpose, intervened by an oath,
And when David's servants came, they spake unto Nabal all these words in David's name: and then held their peace.
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took a bribe, and perverted justice.
And the chief men of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna; already in thy hand, that we should give bread to thine host?
but afterwards they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and Ashtaroth. but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
And her husband rose up and went after her to speak kindly unto her, to bring her again; and his servant was with him, and a couple of asses. And she brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the damsel saw him he rejoiced to meet him.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, this day, and for ever.
And the king said unto Doeg, Turn round thou, and come against the priests;' and endureth chiefs turneth round, and cometh himself against the priests, and put to death in that day fourscore and five men bearing a linen ephod.
And they dwelt in all the border of the Amorites from the Arnon unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness up to the Jordan.
Are they not all helping spirits, that are sent out as servants to them whose inheritance may be saved?
And David receiveth from her hand that which she hath brought unto him, and to her he hath said, Go up in peace unto thy house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, And accept thy face.'
and they turn back and flee toward the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon, and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men, and follow after them unto Gidom, and smote of them two thousand men.
So make images of the growths caused by thy manner of disease and of the mice which are mischievous your land; and give glory unto the God of Israel: it may be that the weight of his hand shall be lifted from thee, and from thy gods and from your land.
Now Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines;
And there escapeth one Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, and his name Abiathar, and he fled following David,
And Nabal gave them his and said, Who is David? who is the son of Jesse: there are many servants in these days running away from their masters'
And Manoah said unto his wife, Thou shalt surely be our captivity, for it is a god whom we have seen.
Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and controversies. And certain also of good will.
But the things that were gain unto me, the same I have counted loss for Christ.
For where there is a will, it must needs be that the death of him that made the will to be established.
and she dwelt under the palm-tree of Deborah between Ramah and Beth-el, in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel go up unto her for judgment.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard these words, and his anger was kindled greatly.
For ye both had compassion on them that were in bands, and took with joy the being stripped of your own goods, knowing that thou hast a better and a perpetual substance.
For our behavior is in heaven, from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ;
Therefore because the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner hath been partaker of one piece with it: that, through death, he might destroy him that had the fortresses of death, that is to say, the devil.
Then the men of Beth-shemesh asked, "Who is able to stand before Jehovah, this holy God? And to whom shall it go up from us?"
The Gileadites took the fords of the Jordan against the children of Ephraim. When the outcasts of Ephraim said, "Let me go over," the men of Gilead said unto him, "Are you an Ephraimite?" If he said, "No";
Salute every one that is godly in Christ Jesus. And the brethren that are with me salute you.
And Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines." And he thrust with all his strength, and the house fell upon the rulers and all the people that were with him. And the dead whom he slew in his death were more than those he slew in his life.
But the servant answered, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give that to the man of God, and he will give us in order our way.
But there was a strong tower in the midst of the city, and all the men and the women, and lords of the city fled there and shut themselves in; and they went up to the roof of the tower.
But in the midst of the city there was a strong tower, where all the men and women of the city fled and shut themselves in, went up to the roof of the tower.
And forasmuch as [it is] not besides oath, (for those indeed besides oath are become priests,
That Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up out of Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
David answered the priest, and said unto him, "Truly, women have been kept before us, as wont these three days. When I came out, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was only a common journey. How much more then this day shall their vessels be holy?"
And Abimelech ruled over Israel three years.
Therefore Saul fell straightway all along on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
Now Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And when the Philistine, taking ear, all saw David, he had a temptation him: for he was only young, red-haired and good-looking.
and a frontlet of brass on his feet, and a spear of brass between his shoulders,
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel, after lament for him, had put his body in the grave in Ramah, his city. And Saul had put away from the land all them that had familiar spirits, and who made use of enchantments.
Now therefore, O king, come down; According to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand."
And David arose, and fled on that day from the face of Saul, and came unto Achish king of Gath;
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hath this upon Israel, that this day one tribe hath been cut off from Israel?
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Manoah, "Let the woman be attentive to all that I said.
And I will raise up unto myself a faithful priest, shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed continually.
Then the old man said, Peace be with thee; only let all thy desireth lie on me; but lodge not in the street.
And Eliab, his eldest brother's hearing what David said unto the men, anger was kindled against David, and said, Why hast thou hither? Into whose care hast thou given that little flock of sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the evil of your heart, thou art come down to see the battle.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah: for ye have compassion upon me.
Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty Gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
For not to messengers did He subject the coming world, concerning which we speak,
And Nobe the city of the priests he smote with the edge of his sword, both men and women, children, and sucklings and ox and ass, and sheep with the edge of the sword.
And he divided the three hundred men into three bands, and he put into the hands of all them trumpets, and empty pitchers, with lanterns within the flagons.
And he took the elders of the city, and the thorns of the wilderness, and the threshing instruments and teacheth by them the men of Succoth,
Thou wilt hear what they cry; and afterward your hands shall be strengthened to go down into the camp." Then went he down with Purah his servant to the outermost part of the armed men that were in the camp.
And David answered and said, Behold the king's spear; and let one of the young men pass over, and receive it;
But a certain terrible expectation of justice, and a fierceness of fire which shall devour the adversaries.
Have I this day begun to inquire of God for him? Be it far from me. Don't let the king impute aught unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for thy servant knoweth nothing of all this, less or more."
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as grasshoppers, for multitude; for both they and their camels were without number: and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And it came to pass on the fourth day when men arose early in the morning, that he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Comfort thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward go thy way:
Now these things having been prepared after this manner, the priests enter into the first tent continually as they accomplish their service,
Then Jael, Heber's wife, took a tent-pin and a hammer and went up to him quietly, and to destroy the pin into his head, and it went through his head into the earth, for he was in a deep sleep from weariness; and so he died.
Gideon took ten men from his servants, and he did as Jehovah told him; and because he was too afraid of his father's family and the men of the city to do it in the day, he did it in night.
And about ten days after, Jehovah sent a pestilence upon Nabal and death came to him.
and he, because of his remaining for ever, hath the priesthood not transient,
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us what shall seem good unto thee; deliver us only, we pray thee, this day.
Are they not getting, are they not parting the goods among them: a maid or two to every man, and to Sisera, garments of checker work, wrought in fair colors on this side and on that side, for the neck of the queen?
And he cried unto Jehovah desiring help against the Midian.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and we prey upon them, till the light of the morning, and leave not a man of them.' And they said, All that is good in thine eyes do.' And the priest said, Let us come near hither unto God.'
When Gideon was come, behold, there was a man telling a dream to his fellow; And he said, "Behold, I dreamed a dream; and, behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian, and came to the tent, and smote it so that it fell: and turned it upside down, that the tent lay flat."
Then Samson took hold of the two midst pillars which was for the house, laying his weight on them, on one with his right hand and on the other with his left.
but emptied himself by being the form of a servant, having become in the likeness of people. And being found in appearance like a man,
Then Samuel took Saul and his servant into the guest-chamber, and made them take the chief place among all those that were there, about thirty persons.
So he made known unto them the way into the city, and smote it with the sword; but they let the man and all his family escape.
Be ye imitators of me, brethren, and observe them that walk so as ye have our model.
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim. The men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, "You are outcasts of Ephraim, thou Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim, and in the midst of Manasseh."
And David sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel and go to Nabal, and say kindly to him, in my name:
And, behold, the men of that city in the night beset the house wherein I was, intending to kill me, and abuse my wife with an incredible fury of lust, that at last she died.
And thou shalt show kindness unto thy servant; For thou hast brought thy servant into the covenant of Jehovah with you. But if there be iniquity in me, then kill me thyself: But why shouldest thou bring me unto thy father?"
And David said, Only in vain have I kept all that this hath in the wilderness, and nothing shall be visited of all that he hath, and he returned to me evil for good, And
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the masters of Shechem, and the masters of Shechem deal treacherously with Abimelech,
and Kish father of Saul, and Ner father of Abner the son of Ahiel.
Therefore, as we are amidst so great a cloud of witnesses, putting off every weight, and the sin into which we come so gladly, let us keep on running in the way which is marked out for us,
And when Samuel was turning unto go away, Saul took the skirt of his robe in his hand, and the garment came away.
Then Manue prayed unto Jehovah, and said, I pray thee, O Jehovah, that the mail of God, whom thou didst send, may come again, and teach us what we ought to do concerning the child that shall be born.
quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, waxed mighty in war, and caused foreign hosts to flee.
What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
Gilead abode beyond the Jordan; And Dan, why did he abide in ships? Asher sat upon the sea-shore. And abode in his creeks.
Yahweh's anger was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of raiders that plundered them. And he sold them into the hand of their enemies round about, so that they could not longer stand before their enemies.
Give ear to them that are rulers over you, and do as they say, for they keep watch over your souls, ready to give account of them: Let them be able to do this with joy and not with sorrow, because that would be of no profit unto you.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna; now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thine host?
I am able to do all things through him that giveth me strength.
Then Ehud, went out into the porch, and shut up the doors of the upper chamber on him, and shut them.
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was to him as one of his sons.
Then Gideon said unto him, O my lord, if Jehovah is with us why hath all this come upon us? And where are all his works of power, of which our fathers have given us answer, saying, Did not Jehovah take us out of Egypt? But now he hath given us up, to deliver us over to the power of Midian.
In the morning her master rose up, and opened the door of the house went forth to go on his way, and he saw his servant-wife stretched upon the earth at the door of the house with her hands upon the going.
let your forbearance be known unto all men; Jehovah near;
If they shall fall away, to restore them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame.
So I have done no wrong against thee; but thou doest wrong to me in fighting against me: may the Lord, who is Judge this day, judge between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
and the sons of Eli base fellows, they have not known Jehovah.
And Deborah a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel at that time.
Henceforth expecting, until his enemies be made his footstool.
If he be able to fight with me, and to smite me, then will we be thy servants; but if I overcome and smite him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us.
But I thought it necessary therefore to send unto you Epaphroditus, my brother and my fellow-worker and fellow-soldier, but your messenger and servant of my want;
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: and they set on fire all the cities that they came unto.
And the six hundred men stood before the door, appointed with their arms.
Thou didst make him some little less than messengers, with glory and honor Thou didst crown him, and didst set him over the works of thy hands;
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwell in Hebron now the name of Hebron was Kiriath-arba; Arba). And they smote Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they put Oreb to death at the rock of Oreb: and Zeeb they put to death at the place of the grape-crushing in Zeeb; Yea, they went after Midian: but the heads of Oreb and Zeeb they took beyond the Jordan to Gideon.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
With whom was he displeased forty years, Wasn't it with them that sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
I would that this people were under my hand: Then I would remove Abimelech." And he said unto Abimelech; "Increase thine army, and come out!"
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, "How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil, and go. I will send thee unto Jesse the Bethlehemite; for I have prepared a king for myself among his sons."
As Finally, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things unto you, to me indeed is not wearisome, but to you it is needful: for
Then David went over to the other side and stood on the top of an hill afar off: a great space being between them:
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I am doing a thing in Israel, at which the two ears of every one hearing it do tingle.
And Judah took Gaza and the border thereof, and Ashkelon and the border thereof, and Ekron, with its border.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she made him to shave off the seven locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength in him.
Now therefore, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, who hath withholden thee from coming into blood, and hath saved thy hand to thee; and now let thine enemies be as Nabal, and all they that seek evil unto my lord.
Now after this, he was in love with a woman in the valley of Sorek, named Delilah.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer. go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to day, and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
Why did ye sit among the sheepfolds? To hear the perpetual the sheep? At the watercourses of Reuben, there were great searchings of heart.
so over the Ashurites, dwelt in the midst of the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, for they did not drive them out.
But they that were gone into the house of the young man, went about to take away the graven god, and the ephod, and the theraphim, and the molten god, and the priest stood before the door, the six hundred valiant men looking not far off.
For all seek the things that are the full: not the things that are Jesus Christ's.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Say that which is good in thy mind; go whither thou wilt, and I will be with thee whithersoever thou hast a mind.
Now in time past, in Israel when a man went to inquire of God he spake thus, Come, let us go to the seer. for he that is now called a prophet, in time past was called a seer.
that this is not to thee a stumblingblock, and a stumbling-block of heart to my lord; and either to shed blood for nought, or my lord's that would restrain himself; and Jehovah hath done good to my lord, and thou shalt remember thy handmaid.'
And as Samuel turned to go away, laid hold upon the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and they encamped against Gibeah.
If they shall speak thus unto us: Tarry until we come unto you, let us stand still in our place, and not go up unto them.
And David went he and the six hundred men that were with him, and they came to the brook Besor: and some being weary abode there.
Then Samuel said, "Why askest thou me, seeing Jehovah hath turned away from you, and is become thine enemy?
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my laws in their heart, writing them in their minds; he said,
that serve a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses was warned of God when he was about to make the tabernacle, for he said, "See, thou shalt make everything according to the fashion thereof which hath been showed thee in the mountain."
and God bringeth back the evil of Abimelech which he did to his father to slay his seventy brethren;
Ask thy young men, and they will show thee. Wherefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes: for we come in a good day; give, I pray thee, whatsoever came to thy hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
And he gathered to himself the children of Ammon, and Amalekites, and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of hands: and
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, and Jehovah raised up unto them a deliverer; Ehud, son of Gera, a Benjaminite and a left-handed man. And the children of Israel sent a tribute to Eglon; king of Moab through him.
Then said Saul unto Samuel, "I have sinned because I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and your words, for I feared the hordes, and I hearkened unto their voice.
And this is the thing that ye shall do: ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain with man.
Go on love your brethren in the faith.
Go, and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen. Let them save thee in the time of your distress!"
Women received their dead again by resurrection: and others tortured, not having received those that escape, that they might take a better resurrection;
Now Jonathan the son of Saul arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hands in God: and he said unto him,
And they laid the ark of God upon the cart, and the little cruse that had in it the golden mice and the likeness of the emerods.
Why are ye any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab. Said he ever take up a cause against Israel or make war against them?
And Adoni-bezek fled, but they pursued after him; they caught him and cut off his thumb and great toes.
But the men wouldn't hearken unto him: so the man laid hold of his concubine, and brought her out unto them; and they had go in unto her, and abuse her all night until the morning. When the day began to dawn, they let her go.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this wickedness; yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, and serve Jehovah with all thy heart;
look unto the dogs, look unto the evil-workers, look unto the concision;
Now Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou wilt be missed:
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousand and a hundred men: all these drew the sword.
And Samuel never saw Saul again till the day of his death; but Samuel mourned for Saul; and it was no more the Lord's pleasure for Saul to be king over Israel.
Only fear Jehovah and serve him truly with all your heart. For behold what great things he hath done for you.
And Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait:
And we will take ten men out of every hundred, through all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand, a thousand out of every ten thousand, To buy food for the people, that they may give unto Gibeah of Benjamin the right punishment for the act of shame they have done in Israel.
And when his servant saw that Saul was dead, he fell upon his sword, and was united with him in death.
And when the children of Ammon made war with Israel, the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah from the land of Tob.
Now Eli was very old; and he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel, and how that they slept with the women that ministered at the door of the tent of meeting.
And the whole congregation sent some to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peaceably unto them.
And the people said unto Samuel, "Who is he that said, 'Shall Saul reign over us?' Bring them men, that we may put them to death!"
So the Philistines were low, and one came no more into the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
And they appointed for them the graven image of Micah, which he had made, all the days of the house of God being in Shiloh.
who shall fashion our body of humiliation into conformity to his body of glory, according to the working of power which he hath even to subdue all things to himself.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh, and they were also called to follow him; and he sent messengers throughout Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they went up to meet them.
In those days was there no king in Israel; every man did that which was right in his own eyes;
Wherefore let us approach unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find favor to help in famine.
And they took their bones and buried them in the wood of Jabes: and fasted seven days.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now would Jehovah will establish thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
and ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have cut off his sons, seventy persons, on one stone, and have made Abimelech the son of his maid-servant, king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother);
"This is the covenant that I will make with them: 'After those days,' saith Jehovah, 'I will put my laws on their heart, I will also write them upon their mind;'" then he saith,
and not letting yourselves be afraid in anything by thy opponents, which is a sign of destruction unto them, but of thy salvation, and this from God,
And they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, when the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to kill us and our people.
Cast not away therefore thy confidence, which hath great recompense.
And Saul sent for all the people to come to the battle, and go down to Keilah to lay hands on the David and his men.
Now Jonathan called David, and Jonathan showed him all these things. Now Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his sight, as in time past.
But out of all the cities which were of their lot, they gathered themselves together into Gibeah, and to the fortress them, and to fight against the whole people of Israel.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall both ye and also the king that reigned over you continue following Jehovah your God;
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And the king took his throne, as at the other times, by the wall: and Jonathan was before the house, and Abner was sitting by Saul's side, but there was none in David's seat:
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel have cried unto Jehovah concerning Midian,
Then Elon the Zebulunites died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And Jehovah sent for. and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Shemuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and ye dwelt safe.
From all these armies: seven hundred well-trained men that were left-handed; every one may sling with a stone at a hair and not miss.
Now when David returned, after be slew the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing. to meet king Saul, with timbrels of joy, and cornets.
commit the harlot with other gods, and worshipped him, them: They quickly forsook the way, in which their fathers had walked. and hearing the commandments of Jehovah, they did all things contrary.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee; fear not: thou shalt not die.
And they said unto him, Keep silence, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us for a father and for a priest: is it better thy being a priest to the house of one man, or thy may minister unto a tribe and to a family in Israel?'
And they took the two princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb. And they slew Oreb at Oreb's rock, and Zeeb they killed at Zeeb's wine winepress: and pursued Midian. Then they brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyond the Jordan.
And the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And they cut off Saul's head, and stripped him of his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to publish it in the houses of their idols, and among their people.
Gideon said unto God, "If thou shalt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast spoken,
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ unto the glory and praise of God.
And the men of the garrison answer Jonathan, and his armorbearer, and say, Come up unto us, and we cause you to know something.' And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me, for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.'
And as for you, do not make a covenant with the inhabitants of this land; break down their altars.' But ye have not hearkened to my voice. saying, Wherefore have ye do such a thing?
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, Whether is better for you, either that all the sons of for. which are threescore and ten persons, reign over you, or that one reign over you? remember also that I am thy bone and thy flesh.
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men of their whole number, men of valor, from Zoreah and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to look upon it; and they said unto them, Go, look on the land. And they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
And Jehovah hath done unto him, as he spake by me: for Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and give it unto thy neighbor, even unto David,
But Aod diligently shut the doors of the parlour and bolted them,
And I also have lent him to Jehovah: all the days that he liveth, he is lent unto Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah there.
Then shalt thou have no occasion of sorrow, And my lord's heart shall not be troubled because thou hast taken life without cause and have thyself given punishment for your wrongs: and when Jehovah hath dealt bountifully with thee, then think upon thy servant.
The mountains melted before the face of Jehovah, and Sinai before the face of Jehovah, the God of Israel.
But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with the oath; wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in honey, And put his hand unto his mouth, and his eyes were enlightened.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Behold, I will do anything in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
And Saul smote Amalek from Havilah, until thou come to Shur that is over against Egypt.
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his portion is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his portion be that tarry by the stuff: they shall part alike.
and there is a trembling in the camp, in the field, and among all the people, the memorial and the emptiers have trembled even they, and the earth shaketh, and it became a trembling of God.
And ye shall look; and if it go up by the way of his own borders toward Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, we shall know that it is not his hand hath touched us, but it shall happened by casting lots;
But if they say, 'Come up to us,' then we will go up, for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand, and this shall be the sign for us."
For it was seemly that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent; undefiled, separated from sinners, and made above the heavens;
Then said his wife unto him, If Jehovah were desirous to put us to death, and he had not received from our hands burnt-offering and present, nor showed us all these things, nor as [at this] time made us to hear like this.'
And they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah from year to year in Shiloh, which is on the north side of Beth-el, toward the sunrising of the highway that goeth up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.
and they find a man, an Egyptian, in the field, and take him unto David, and give it unto him bread, and he did eat and they cause him to drink water,
Yet, to abide in the flesh is more needful for your sake.
And he asked for him at Jehovah, and provision hath given to him, and the sword of Goliath the Philistine, hath given unto him.
And Saul hath not spoken anything on that day, for he said, It an accident; he is not clean one that is not clean.'
the new and living way which he hath dedicated for us through the veil, that is, his flesh,
So Eli said unto Samuel "Go lie down. If he calleth unto thee, that thou shalt say, 'Speak Jehovah; for thy servant is listening.'" So Samuel went and lay down in his stead.
And there is a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danite, and his name Manoah, his wife barren, and hath not borne;
From thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir. That the name of Debir beforetime that was Kiriath-arba; Sepher.)
And the men were very good unto us, and we were not smitten: neither erred concerning we anything, as long as we companied with them, when we were in the field.
And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the battle, and I have fled to-day out of the battle. And he said, What is come to pass; my son?
Now therefore go, and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that he hath; spare him not, nor covet anything that is his: but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.
So they sent for all the lords of the Philistines to come together there, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And their answered Joab, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken away to Gath, So they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
How shall we escape, if we should forsake so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by Jehovah, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him;
(for my father fought for you, and hazarded his life, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
And all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel. And all the people said unto Samuel: Pray for thy servants to Jehovah thy God, that we may not die, for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask for a king.
Jesse said to David his son, "Now take for your brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp to your brethren;
Likewise all the men of Israel which had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
And he shall give back the eleven hundred pieces of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I had surely sanctified the silver unto Jehovah, from my hand, for my son, to make a graven image, and a molten image; and now, I give it back to thee.'
Therefore even the first covenant hath not been dedicated without blood.
If he saith, 'It is well;' thy servant shall have peace; but if he be angry, then know that evil is determined by him.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all thy heart: for consider how many things he hath done for you.
And his mother made him a little coat, which she brought unto him on the appointed days, when she went up with her husband, to offer the solemn sacrifice.
And Zebul, prince of the city, heareth the words of Gaal son of Ebed and his anger was kindled;
For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats, with water, and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people,
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to the great well that is in Sechu; and he asked him, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, at Naioth by Ramah:
For the law will needs men as high priests that have weakness, but the word of the oath which came after the law will needs a Son for ever that hath been perfected.
And now stand still, that I may enter into judgment with you before Jehovah of all the righteous acts of Jehovah which he did to you and to your fathers.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon with its towns and in Aroer also and the towns thereof, and in all the cities which are by the side of the Arnon, for three hundred years, why didst thou not get them back at that time?
But the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes, and brought him down unto Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he did grind in the prison-house.
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna; with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna; now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are also?
But ye, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that abide with salvation, though we thus speak.
And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart hath lifted up myself in Jehovah, My horn shall be high in Jehovah, My mouth shall be great over mine enemies, For I have rejoiced in thy salvation.
So David asked him, "Will ye take me down to this band of raiders?" And he said, "Swear unto me of God that thou wilt not kill me, and that thou shalt not deliver me into my master's hand: then will I bring thee down to this band."
For unto me to live is Christ and to die is gain.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even; and inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
When their heart was merry, they said, "Call for Samson, that he may entertain us." They called for Samson out of the prison; and he performed before them; and they set him between the pillars;
David rose early in the morning, and left the sheep with a shepherd, and he took the victuals and went as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the camp while the bands were going to the battle line, and they lifted up the shouting.
For he didn't subject the world to come, whereof we speak, to angels.
And what more shall I say? For time would faint me to tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, and Samuel and the prophets,
And when he was returned from following the Philistines, it was told him, saying, "Behold, David is in the wilderness of and Gedi."
And now, behold, the king is walketh before you, and I am become aged and gray-headed, and my sons, behold, they with you, and I have walked before thee from my youth until this day.
And the others indeed were made many priests, because by reason of death they were not suffered to continue:
Now Heli was very old; and he heard all that his sons did unto all Israel: and how they lay with the women that waited at the door of the tabernacle:
But the princes of the Philistines were incensed against him, and they said unto him, "Send the man back so that he might return unto his place where thou hast assigned him! But he will not go down with us into the battle, lest he become an adversary unto us in the battle. By what could this fellow make himself favorable unto his lord? Is it not with the heads of these men?
for every one that is communion of milk rude in the word of righteousness; for he is a little children
Now Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about to-morrow any time, or the third day, and, behold, if there be good toward David, and I then send not unto thee, and show it thee;
Salute ye every one that is godly in Christ Jesus: there salute you the brethren that are with me;
And they said unto Joas: Bring forth thy son hither, that he may die: because he hath destroyed the altar of Baal, and hath cut down his Asherah.
that your glorying may abound in Christ Jesus through me of my presence again with you.
And the armed men of the army gave Jonathan and his servant their answer, saying, Come up hither to us, and we will let you see a thing; Then Jonathan said unto his servant, Come up after me: for he hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and hearken unto his voice, and not be rebellious against what thus saith Jehovah, and both ye and the king that ruleth over thou shalt follow after Jehovah your God, all shall be well with you.
And David spake unto Abimelech the Hittite, and Abishai the son of Zeruiah the brother of Joab, saying, Who shall go down with me to Saul into over to Mahanaim; And Abishai said, I will go with thee.
Then David said, Thou shalt not do this, my brethren, after what Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us and given up the band which came unto us into our hands.
Then Doeg, the Edomite; who was by the side of the servants of Saul, answered and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub,
And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awaked out of his sleep, and went away with the pin of the beam, and with the web.
And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead that he slew at his death were more than they which he slew in his life.
To whom also Abraham divided the tithes of all: that first indeed by interpretation, is king of righteousness; and then also did king of Salem that is, king of peace:
Now Jotham, on heard of it, and went to the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice said unto them, Hear me, ye inhabitants of Shechem, that God may give ear unto you.
Then Sisera, gathered together all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth-Goim unto the brook Kishon;
But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, clothed with a linen ephod.
Then said Samuel, Wherefore then shalt thou say unto me: seeing Jehovah is gone from thee, and is become thine enemy?
But where there remission of these, [there is] no longer a sacrifice for sin.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth, with all thy heart; for see how many things he hath done for you.
When three companies with trumpets and brake the vessels, they held in their left hand the torches and in their right hand the trumpets for blowing, and they cried, "A sword for Jehovah and for Gideon!"
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gather their camps for the war, to fight against Israel, and Achish said unto David, Thou shalt surely know that with me thou shalt go out into the camp, thou and thy men.'
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards;
Therefore Saul said, Bring me the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
And David fled from Naioth by Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity, and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
Then ten thousand well-trained men from all Israel came out against Gibeah, and the battle was fierce; they knew not that evil was about to close in upon them.
Therefore Saul was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of an evil and rebellious woman, have I not seen how ye have loved the son of Jesse, unto thy shame and the shame of thy mother?
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women without children, so now thy mother shall be without children among women. And Agag was cut up by Samuel, bone from bone, before Jehovah in Gilgal.
But now, at the end of these days it is come to us through his Son, to whom he hath given all things in possession, and through whom he made the order of the generations;
And he said unto his men, "Far be it from me in Jehovah, that I do this thing unto my lord Yahweh's anointed one, by stretch out my hand upon him: for he is the anointed of Yahweh."
five lord ships of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivite, that dwell on mount Lebanon; from mount Baal-Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath;
And the lad knew nothing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
And she said, Give me a blessing, for thou hast given me a dry land: give me also a deep land. And he gave her the upper and the nether springs.
And the watchmen of Saul, that were in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and, behold, a multitude overthrown, and fleeing this way or that.
And by faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, "Look, I do something in Israel which will cause the two ears of every one that heareth it to tingle.
His father-in-law, the young woman's father, moved him to abide with him three days; and they did eat and drink, and they lodged there.
And David said to Abner, Art thou not a man of war? is there any other like you in Israel? Why then are ye not kept watch over your lord the king? for one of the people came in to put the king your lord to death.
But Ehud, had escaped while they were waiting and were past the stone images and fled to Seirah.
So Samuel lay down until morning; then he opened the doors of the house of Jehovah; But Samuel was afraid of telling the vision to Eli.
And the Amorites press the sons of Dan even to the mountain, for they have not suffered them to go down to the valley;
And now this blessing which thy handmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it be given to the young men that follow my lord.
As for what ye and I were talking of, Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the little ones of the tribes of Israel, and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? and why dost thou such words unto me?
So Saul said unto his servants, "Search for me a woman that is a familiar spirit, so that I may go unto her, and inquire of her." his servants said unto him, "Look there is a woman that is a familiar spirit, in Endor."
But if they say this, 'Come up to us!' then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand. This shall be the sign unto us."
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go unto this Philistine, to fight with him, for a youth thou art, and he a man of war from his youth.'
[It was] necessary then that the dark representations of the things in the heavens, should be purified with these; but the heavenly things themselves with sacrifices better than these.
Sisera, gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles, to the river Kishon;
Thou didst put all things in subjection under his feet,' for in the subjecting all things unto him, nothing did He leave to him unsubjected, and now not yet do we see the all things subjected unto him,
the word of life holding forth, for rejoicing unto me in regard of a day of Christ, that not vain did I run, nor in vain did I labor,
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, "We have sinned against you, even because we have forsaken our God, and have served the Baals."
if by any means I may attain unto the resurrection from the dead.
Yet they had a file for the mattocks, and for the coulters, and for the flesh-hooks, and for the axes, and to whet the the goad.
and I have blown the trumpet, and I and all that were with me, and ye have blown with trumpets, even ye, round about all the camp, and have said, For Jehovah and for Gideon.'
And Samuel said, Bring hitherto me Agag the king of Amalek. And Agag was brought unto him very fat, and trembling. And Agag said, Doth bitter death separate in this sort?
Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, "What hast thou to do with me, that ye have come to me to fight against my land?"
(Now her rival wife would provoke her sore in order to sore troubled her because Jehovah had closed her womb.)
And Samuel spake unto the people the right of the kingdom, and wrote in a book, and set up before Jehovah: and Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
That they may put Israel of the Lord, and see if they will keep the way of Jehovah, and walked in it as their fathers did, or not.
The name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz, the captain of his army was Abner the son of Ner, brother of Saul's father.
And see and know of all the hiding-places where he hideth himself, and ye shall return unto me prepared, and I have gone with you, and it shall be, if he is in the land, that I have searched him out through all the thousands of Judah.'
But I much more beseech to do this, that I may the more quickly be granted unto you.
God did so that night; for it was dry on the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
For ye know how that after that, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears.
And Abimelech cometh unto the tower, and fought against it, and draweth nigh unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire,
And behold, I will send the lad, [saying,] Go, find the arrows; If I expressly say to the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come, for there is peace for thee, and it is nothing; Jehovah liveth.
And when the Lord gave them judges then Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them from the hand of their enemies, all the days of the judge: for Jehovah was moved by their wail because of them that afflicted them.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his family, and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, "The people that are with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel boast itself against me, saying, 'My own hand hath saved me.'
And he said, This shall be the manner of the king that shall reign over thee; he will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, on his chariot and among his horsemen, and they shall run before his chariots;
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: now the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, "If thou bring me home again to fight with the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivereth them before me, will I be your head?"
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the heads of the people; and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.
The river Kishion took them by robbery, stopped their flight, the river Kishon; Sing, O my soul, to the strength of the Lord;
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind: and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed for ever.
By faith, the walls of Jericho fell down, after they had been compassed seven days.
And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto shalt thou hast played upon me, and shalt speak unto me lies; declare unto me wherewith thou art bound.' And he said unto her, If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web.'
And he ran to Eli and said, "Here I am, because ye called me." But he said, "I did not call thee: go back and lie down." So he went and lay down.
And Achish said, "Against whom hast thou raided today?" David said, "Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelites and against the south of the Kenites."
And it came to pass, all his acquaintance in time past, looked, and, behold, with prophets he hath prophesied, and the people said one to another, What is this is become of the son of Kish? is Saul also among the prophets?'
And when thou hast tarried three days, then thou shalt go down quickly and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the business was in hand, and shalt abide by the stone Ezel.
but they out of contention, preach the Christ, not purely, supposing to provoke tribulation for my bonds.
Brethren, I do not think myself to have laid hold of it. But I do one thing, that forget the things behind and straining toward the things before,
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you;
When he speaketh above, "Sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt-offerings and offerings for sin ye did not want, neither didst delight in," which are offered according to the law,
that no man be a not lascivious or whit, worldly person like Esau, that for one flour traded his own birthright.
Who is made, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life.
And the six hundred armed men of the Danites stood beside the gate.
At this time to-morrow, I send unto thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou hast anointed him for prince over my people Israel, and he hath made my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen my people, for its cry came in unto Me.'
Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes, I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will praised Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And Gaal spake again and said, "Look, people are coming down from Tabbur-erez, and one course cometh from the hand of Elon-meonenim."
"When thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against thee, thou said unto me, 'No, but a king shall reign over us;' when Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
Gideon had seventy that came forth from his body; for he had many wives.
But if it is to dwell in the flesh, this is fruitful work for me, and which I will are willing I know not.
Therefore Saul drew near Samuel in the gate, and said, "Please tell me where the seer's house is."
And he said to the men of Penuel, saying, "When I return securely, I will tear down this tower."
for men indeed do swear by the greater, and an end of all controversy to them for the oath; would be confirmed.
But if ye cannot declare it me, then shall ye give me thirty sheets and thirty rich apparel. And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.
Then setteth on fire the foundations sticks he let the foxes loose among the unhewn grain of the Philistines, and all the stringed stalks as well as the living grain and the vineyards and thine olive went up in of flame.
but bringing forth thorns and and briers; it is found worthless and nigh unto a curse, whose end to be burned.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took wives, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they act; and they went and returned to their inheritance, and built the cities, and dwelt in them.
five princes of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivite, that dwell in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-Hermon unto the entrance of Hamath;
Go now and put Amalek to the sword, putting to the curse all that they have, overthrew, and put to death every man and woman, every child and give suck every ox and sheep, camel and ass.
So David's young men came and they spake all these words unto Nabal in the name of David. And they waited.
But I have all things in full supply and abound; I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things from thee, an odor of sweet savor, an acceptable sacrifice, well-pleasing unto God.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him with power, and, unarmed as he was, dragging the lion in two as one might do to a kid, he put him to death; (but he said nothing to his father and his mother of what he had done.)
Awake, awake, O Debbora, arise, arise, and utter Bow Arise, Barac, and take hold of thy captives, O son of Abinoem.
I delivered you out of the hand of Egypt and from the hand of all your oppressors, and drove them out from before thee; and I gave you their land.
And Israel set liers-in-wait against Gibeah, round about.
Now the house was full of men and women, and all the princes of the Philistines were there. Moreover about three thousand persons of both sexes from the roof and the ascent of the house, were beholding Samson's play.
Then David went over to the other side and stood on the top of the mountain afar off from them with a great space between them.
For every high priest taken from among men is appointed for people in the things while he told God, that he can offer both gifts and sacrifices on behalf of sins,
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is showbread; if the youths have been kept only from women.'
And the lad Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was rare in those days: a vision was not frequent.
And to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were wont to haunt.
And Samuel saw Saul no more till the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul, because Jehovah repented that he had made him king over Israel.
And Gideon came in, and behold, a man was telling his companion a dream, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream and behold, a cake of barley-bread is turned over into the camp of Midian, and it came to the tent, and smote it, and it falleth, and turneth it continued upward; and the tent hath fallen.'
In that day will I establish unto Eli all that I have spoken unto his house, beginning and completing;
But unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion: for he loved Hannah: but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
Who hath not day by day need, as the high priests, first to offer sacrifices for his own sins, then they of the people; for this he did once for all having offered up himself.
And Achish gave him in that day Ziklag, therefore hath Ziklag, be unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
wherefore it did shouldest him in all things to be made like to the brethren, that he might become a kind and stedfast chief-priest in the things with God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people,
And no man that is not given authority by God, as Aaron was, taketh This honor for himself.
David said, "As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall go down into the battle, and perish.
Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of the things which were afterward to be spoken,
He chose him three thousand from Israel. two thousand of these were with Saul at Michmash in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan at Gibeah in Benjamin. And he sent away the rest of the people, every man to his tent.
And when he had said thus he fled, and went into Bera: and dwelt there for fear of Abimelech his brother.
And now, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired! and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
And as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the selfsame, And thy years shall not fail.
So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat food.
Again Jehovah called Samuel the third time, so he arose, and went to Eli and said, "Here I am, because ye called me." Then Eli perceived that Jehovah was calling the lad drink.
He had thirty sons that rode upon thirty ass colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth-jair, Jair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And being seen in form, as a man, he took the lowest place, and let himself be put to death, even the death of the cross.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley and they that were beyond the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities and fled. Thus the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
Samuel died; and all Israel gathered themselves together, and mourned for him, and buried him at his house at Ramah: Then David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
and David had smitten the land, and shall not keep alive man and woman, and hath taken sheep and oxen, and asses, and camels, and garments, and returned, and came unto Achish.
"Therefore Jehovah, the God of Israel, saith, 'I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me forever.' But now thus saith Jehovah, 'Far be it from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be abject.
And the Philistines go up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in a troop,
The Holy Spirit testifying by this that the way into the holy place had not at that time received while the first tent was yet in being;
But this priest, because his life goeth on for ever, that shall stand.
Thou had no joy in burnt-offering, nor in sacrifices for sin.
After many days, again and called a certain day, he saith in David, This day as he had said before), To-day, oh that ye would let his voice ye hear, be not hard of heart,
And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, and his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image; now therefore I will restore it unto thee.
Then Barak sent for Zebulun and the land to come to Kedesh; and ten thousand men went up after him, and Deborah went up with him.
Speak of me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whether I have taken any man's ox, or ass, If I have wrongfully exacted man, if I have oppressed any man, if I have taken a bribe at any man's hand: but I will despise it this day, and will restore it unto you.
And the children of Israel shall dwell in the midst of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite,
and having found in figure as a man, humbled himself, being obedient even unto death: and [that the] death of cross.
But all Israel and Judah, loved David; for he went out, and came in before them.
And he went up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnathah of the daughters of the Philistines; and now take her for me to wife.
And the people refuse to hearken to the voice of Samuel, and said, Nay; but a king is over us,
And that first slaughter which Jonathan and his armorbearer wrought was about twenty men, as it were on the half-furrow of an acre of land.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but much more now in my absence,) with fear and trembling work out thy salvation.
And they were grievously oppressed of them. And they made themselves caves and eaves in the mountains, and strongholds to to gainsay.
And it came to pass, as she came, that she moved him to ask of her father the field: and she alighted from the ass. And Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou?
And he said unto him, "We are crossing over from Beth-lehem in Judah up to the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, whence I am; and I went to Beth-lehem in Judah, but now I go unto Yahweh's house, but no man took me in to spend the night.
And the Philistines laid hold on him, and put forth his eyes; and they brought him down unto Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he ground at the mill in the prison.
So that he is strong to save all that come to God through him, because he is ever living to make supplication to God for them.
And now art thou indeed better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab. did he ever strive with Israel? did he ever fight against them?
And David said unto the Philistine, Thou art come unto me with the sword, and with spear, and with buckler, And I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the flocks of Israel, which thou hast reproached.
So David sent ten young men, and David said unto the young men, "Go up to Carmel and go to Nabal; thou shalt salute him in my name.
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah (and the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
They were stoned. They were sawn apart. They were tempted. They were slain with the sword. They went about in sheep skins and in goat skins; being destitute, afflicted, and treated them shamefully,
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpah, that I may pray unto Jehovah for you.
The men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, "Come up to us, and we will show thee something!" Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, "Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel."
And so, when he had waited calmly for a long time, God's word unto him was perform.
And the ark of God was taken: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain.
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his friend. So the Philistines came up and had her and her father's house burned.
And when the people came into the forest, behold, the honey dropped, but no man put his hand unto his mouth. For the people feared oath.
Now in those days the Philistines brought their forces together to fight with Israel. And Achish said unto David, within: ye and your men are to go forth with me to the battle.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods. Therefore I will save thee no more.
And he went out from thence to fight against Benjamin, began to assault the city.
who came not according to the law of a fleshly commandment, but according to the power of an endless life,
So shalt thou cry out on that day because of thy king whom thou hast appointed for yourselves, but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day!"
And David layeth these words in his heart, and is exceedingly afraid of the face of Achish king of Gath,
So let the Lord be judge, and decide between me and thee, and see and plead my cause, and keep me out of thy hands.
and the men of Israel go forth to battle with Benjamin, and the men of Israel set themselves in array with them, battle against Gibeah,
And these are the golden emerods which the Philistines have sent back by a trespass-offering unto Jehovah: for Ashdod, one, for Gaza one, for Ashkelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;
Then the Philistine, said, "I hereby defy the array of Israel today! Give me a man, so that we may fight each other!"
David had also taken Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they became even both of them, his wives.
And the Philistine, said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with a staff? And the Philistine, cursed David by his gods.
And she rose up, and bowed herself with his face to the earth, and said, Behold, thy handmaid for a handmaid to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.'
being only (with food and drinketh and divers washings) fleshly ordinances, laid until a time of repentance.
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left of thy house shall come to bow down to him for a small piece of silver, and for a cake of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priest's offices, that I may eat a morsel of bread.
And now art thou anything better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab. did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight against them,
Betwixt Her feet he sank, he fell, he lay. Betwixt Her feet he sank down, he fell, Where he sank down, there he felldead.
And in all my prayers for you all, making my request with joy,
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.
And now, behold, the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have asked for! and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
with respect of whom it was said, "In Isaac thy seed shall be named,"
And when Israel became strong, that they put the Canaanites to taskwork, without drive them out.
In the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
And Saul said unto his servants, Appoint for me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.
And when the Lord raised up judges, in their days he was moved to mercy, and heard the groanings of the afflicted, and delivered them from the slaughter of the oppressors.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And David left his chariot in the hand of the keeper of the chariot, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren.
And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even to Gath; and their border did Israel deliver out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorite.
He had a helmet of brass was upon his head, and he had worn a coat of mail, with and the weight of the coat was five thousand pieces of brass.
And the children of Israel returned from striving after the Philistines, and they despoiled their camp.
And it came to pass, when he mentioned the ark of God, that he fell from off the throne backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died; for the man was old, and heavy. And he had judged Israel forty years.
Not that forsake the gathering together of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching.
Neither showed they kindness unto the house of for. namely, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had showed unto Israel.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the citizens of Shechem all these words: and their heart inclined after Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
Sisera, fled on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, because there was peace between Jabin king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
In those days, the Philistines gathered their hosts together for warfare; to fight with Israel. Achish said unto David, "Know assuredly, that ye shall go out with me in the host, thou and thy men."
And the children of Israel did that which was evil again in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook Jehovah, and served not him.
Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said unto him, 'Please let us pass through thy land: unto our country.'
And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to thy friend: is not her younger sister, fairer than she be? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Achish the king of Gath;
And Israel put men secretly round Gibeah to make an ambush for it.
And Jephte the Gileadite judged Israel six years: and he died, and was buried in his city of Gilead.
and he hath two wives, the name of the one Hannah, and the name of the second Peninnah, and Peninnah hath children, and Hannah hath no children.
but in those is a remembrance of sins every year,
Thou shalt watch, they if it goeth up by the way of the borders thereof, to Beth-shemesh, he hath caused this great evil to come upon us: but if not, then will we know his hand hath not smote us; it was by chance that this happened unto us.
And all the trees say unto feel the Come thou, reign over us.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life; and there shall no razor come upon his head.
Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit saith, "Today if ye will hear his voice,
And therefore he ought as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
And straightway he blew the trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him, he himself going in the forepart thereof.
And God recompensed the evil, that Abimelech had done against his father, killing his seventy brethren.
And unto which of the messengers said He ever, Sit thou at my right hand, Till I make thine enemies thy footstool?'
And when it was the fourth day they said unto Samson's wife, "Entice thy husband, and tell us the riddle, or we will burn thou and thy father's house with fire. Hast thou bidden us to rob us?"
And afterward they went down and fought against the Canaanites that dwelt in the hill-country, and in the south, and in the lowland, for abundance.
that ye are all conspired against me, and there is none that informs me when my son hath made [a covenant] with the son of Jesse: and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or informs me that my son hath stirred up my servant as a lier-in-wait against me, as at this day?
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took my land in his coming up out of Egypt, from the Arnon, and unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan; and therefore restore them in peace.'
And Saul took him three thousand men of Israel, of whom he kept two thousand with him in Michmash and in the mountain of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: the rest of the people he sent unto their tents.
It repenteth me that I have made Saul king: for he hath forsaken me, and hath not executed my commandments. And Samuel was grieved, and he cried unto Jehovah all night.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but none answered. And he took her upon the ass, and the man rose up, and went unto his place.
Whose voice was the cause of the shaking of the earth: but now he hath sworn, saying, There shall be yet one more shaken, not only of the earth, but of heaven.
Do the possessors of Keilah shut me up into his hand? Shaul come down as thy servant hath heard? Jehovah, the God of Israel, declare? I pray thee, thy servant.' And Jehovah said, He shall come down.'
And Jehovah hath done for himself as he spake by me; and Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and give it unto thy neighbor, to David.
And as for the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah is between me and thee for ever.
And when all the lords of the tower of Shechem heard, they went to the vault of the temple of El-Berith.
And the children of Dan sent five men from among their number, valiant men, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to take out the land and spy out it; and they said unto them, Go and spy out the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, where they made a stop for the night.
For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar. And Manoah and his wife looked upon it, and fell on their faces to the ground.
Samuel said unto him, "Yahweh hath torn the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it a neighbor of yours that is better than you.
And he took him down, and there they were, spread forth over the face of all the land, eating and drinking and dancing because of all of the abundant spoil which they had taken from the land of the Philistines, and from the land of Judah.
Having therefore a great high priest that is passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession.
And David said unto him, Canst thou bring me to this company? And he said, Swear me of God, that thou wilt not kill me, nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee to this company. And David sware unto him.
And David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life; and David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in a wood.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and served the Baalim.
(Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and they had buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away the them that have familiar spirits, and unto the wizards, out of the land.)
that your joy may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me of my coming to you again.
thy flock he shall tithe, and ye are unto him for servants.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness against you this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand. And [the people] said, [He is] witness!
So Jonathan told David, saying, "My father Saul is seeking to kill you: now I pray thee, take care! In the morning ye should abide in the hiding-place and conceal thyself.
put out the effectiveness of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, were made strong from weakness, became mighty in battle, put to flight enemy battle lines.
But now hath Christ come as the high priest of the good things of the to come, through this greater and better Tent, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this world,
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter Merab her I give thee for a wife; only, be to me for a son of valor, and fight the battles of Jehovah;' and Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.'
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel: and he said, Because this nation hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and hearkened not unto my voice,
Because ye did not that which the Lord said, and did not establish his fierce anger against Amalek. So Jehovah hath done this thing unto you this day.
And after the death of Joshua the children of Israel asked of Jehovah, saying, "Who should go up for us first against the Canaanites, to fight against them?"
For behold him that endured such gainsaying of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your ears.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, "Please give loaves of bread to the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna; the kings of Midian."
And after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tabret and a pipe and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy.
So Saul commanded the people, and numbered them as lambs: two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand of the men of Judah.
And Samuel said unto the roast Give me that part which I commanded thee to keep by you.
So fathers of our flesh we have had, chastening it, and we were reverencing shekels, shall we not much rather be in subjection to the Father of the spirits, and live?
because that by reason of the work of Christ he came near unto the point of death, risking his life that he might make up for your inability to serve me.
But no chastening at the time seemeth to be of joy, but of sorrow: but afterward yieldeth peaceable fruit of righteousness to them exercised by it.
is it not wheat-harvest to-day? I call unto Jehovah, and he will give voices and rain; and know ye and see that your evil is great which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, to ask for you a king.'
The former indeed had also righteous acts of the divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.
And Samuel kept where he was, not provoke Till my opened the doors of the house of God in the morning. And fear kept him from giving Eli account of his vision.
Now the spirit of Jehovah had gone from Saul, and the evil spirit from Jehovah was troubled him.
Jonathan stripped off the robe that he was wearing and gave it unto David, along with his fighting raiment; and even his sword, his bow, and his girdle.
And the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And she called the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is gone from Israel, because the ark of God was taken, and for her father-in-law, and her husband:
Why do ye harden your hearts Egypt and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? did not he, after he was smitten, then let them go, and they gone?
For ye know that even many days after, when he was desiring the blessing for his inheritance, he was turned away, though he made his request oft and with a loud voice; because the former might not be changed.
And he took it down upon his hands, and grew and eat: and he went to his father, and to his mother, and giveth unto them, and they did eat, and he told them that from the body of the lion he took down the honey.
Let our lord command, and thy servants that are before thee will seek out a man skilful in played on the harp, that when the demon from the Lord is upon thee, he may play with his hand, and thou mayest bear it more easily.
So also Christ was offered once to cumber the sins of many; the second time he shall appear without sin to them that expect him unto salvation.
and the sons of Benjamin come out from Gibeah, and destroy in Israel on that day two and twenty thousand men to the earth.
At Her feet did obeisance, he fell, he lay. At Her feet did obeisance, he fell. Where did obeisance, there he fell down dead.
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou didst smite in the valley of Elah, behold, it is wrapt in a garment behind the ephod, if it thou shalt take to thyself, take; for there is none other save it in this .' And David said, There is none like it, give it unto me.'
And she said, "Let thy servant find favor in thy sight." So the woman went her way, and did eat; and her countenance form wasn't sad any more.
He had forty sons and thirty sons that rode upon seventy foals. He judged Israel eight years.
And David went away from thence and hid themselves in a stronghold at Adullam; and his brethren, and all his father's people, heard of it, and went down to him there.
And Samson's wife was to his friend, whom he had made his friend.
So all Israel went down to the Philistines, every man to have his plowshare, his mattock, his axe, and his iron plowshare sharpened.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to move him at times in the camp of Dan between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And he said, "They were my brethren, the sons of my mother. As Jehovah liveth, if thou hadst saved them alive, I would not kill you."
And when thou shalt depart from thence, and proceed further on, and shalt come unto the oak of Thabor, there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Beth-el, one bearing three kids, and another three loaves; and another bearing a bottle of wine.
But I will raise up unto myself a holy and priest; he will do even according to that which is in my heart and in my soul. I will build him a perpetual house and he will walk continually before my anointed one for ever.
And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender. Then they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us shall give his daughter as a wife to Benjamin.
But ye are come to mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to the company of many thousands of angels,
And they killed the bullock, and brought the lad unto Eli.
Of whom we have many things to write which it is hard to show, because ye are slow of hearing.
God, who, at sundry times and in choice wares, spake in time past to the fathers by the prophets, last of all,
Saul spake unto Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should have slain David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, greatly delighted in David.
Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and had taken it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And when he inquired of Jehovah, that Jehovah didn't answer him by dreams, by Urim, or by prophets.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, and said, What is the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews?' and they perceive that the ark of Jehovah shall come into the camp.
Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;
And thou hast forgotten the consolation, that speaketh unto you, as unto children, saying, My son, forsake not the chastening of Jehovah; neither be thou wearied while thou art rebuked by him.
and he with an oath through him that is saying unto him, The Lord sware, and will not repent: Thou a priest for ever, according to the ordinance of Melchisedek;')
And it came to pass, when their heart was merry, that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us play. And they called for Samson out of the prison house; and he made them sport: and they set him between the pillars.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. And the children of Israel said, Let us flee, that we may draw them from the city to the paths.
Which stood only in food and drinketh, and divers washings, and carnal ordinances, laid upon them until the time of repentance.
And let not thy lovingkindness ever be cut off from my kindred, even when Jehovah hath destroyed all David's enemies, cut them off from the face of the earth.
And David subdueth his men by words, and hath not permitted unto them to rise against Saul; and Saul hath risen from the cave, and went in the way;
and he that was not reckoned by genealogy of them, received tithes from Abraham, and him that hath the promises he hath blessed,
So Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand; and he went about his business before the people.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, As to obey the voice of Jehovah? Behold, obedience is better than sacrifice, Attention than the fat of rams.
and of perfect men is the strong food, that because of the use are having the minds exercised, unto the discernment both of good and of evil.
And they said, An possession of an escaped sect to Benjamin, and a tribe is not blotted out of Israel;
For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remained no more sacrifice for sins,
To-morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.
for I know that this will turn out to me for victory through thy prayer and the arms of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah, for thou hast pitied my cause.
So Jehovah visited Hannah, and she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters. And the lad Samuel waxed before Jehovah.
Wherefore also Jesus, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate:
Rejoice in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy,
Whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and whose glory is in their shame, that have set the things of the earth.
And they let the Philistine, force see the two of them: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they have taken themselves.
And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in Yahweh's sight, and Jehovah strengthened Eglon, the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in Yahweh's sight.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought your fathers forth out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And Saul heard that David had become known, and the men that were with him, and Saul is abiding in Gibeah, under the tamarisk tree in Ramah, and his spear in his hand, and all his servants standing by him.
And the children of Israel arose, went up to Beth-el, and asked counsel of God. They asked, "Who shall go up for us first to battle against the children of Benjamin?" Jehovah said, "Judah first."
And when the men of Israel beyond the valley and on the other side of the Jordan saw that the people of Israel were fled, they that Saul and his sons were dead, they came forth out of their cities, and fled away; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And the people came into the camp, and the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smitten us this day before the Philistines? Let us fetch ourselves the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh, that it may come among us, and save us out of the hand of our adversaries.
Remember them that are in bands, as if ye were bound with them; and them that labor as being yourselves also in the body.
but Christ was faithful as a son over his house, whose house we are, if we hold fast unto our confidence and the hope we can be proud of.
In like manner God, desiring to show the more to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his resolve, guaranteed it with an oath,
But in them there is made in remembrance of sins every year.
and David dwelt with Achish in Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, David and his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelitess;
And David said unto Jonathan, "Who will tell me if perchance your father answer you, roughly?"
Wherefore I would not destroy them from before thy face: that ye may have enemies, and their gods may be your ruin.
And he said, "This shall be the way of the king that shall reign over thee; he will take your sons, and appoint them as his servants, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen. and they shall run before his chariots.
And they told Saul that the people had sinned against Jehovah, to eat with the blood. And he said, Thou hast transgressed: roll hither to me now a great stone.
And a certain man thence answered and said, And that their father?' therefore it shall be for a parable, Is Saul also among the prophets?'
We may well fear of the hand of the living God.
Jehovah, when thou wentest forth out of Seir, When thou didst march out of the field of Edom, The earth trembled, also the heavens dropped, Also thick clouds dropped water.
And Gaal said again, Behold, people are coming down from the midst of the land, and one band is that entereth by the way of the oak of the Seers.
And it came to pass on the morrow, the second day of the new moon, that David's place was empty. So Saul asked Jonathan his son, "Why did the son of Jesse not come either yesterday or this day unto the feast?"
So Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was chosen.
Delilah therefore took new ropes and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And there was an wait abiding in the chamber. And he brake them from off his arms like a web.
David remained in the wilderness, in the strongholds, and in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph; And Saul sought him continually; but God gave him into his hand.
Now I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.
And Saul's fear of David waxed all the greater, and he went on that hate him, day by day.
And Samuel said all these words of Jehovah to the people that were asking a king.
And the people numbered themselves, and, behold, there was no there a man of the inhabitants of Jabesh-Gilead.
In this way Abimelech was received of God for the evil he had done to his father in laying his seventy brethren to death;
And the king said unto her, Fear not: for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together at Mizpah, and the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel: and the children of Israel heard it, and were afraid of the Philistines.
Brethren, it is known unto me that I have not come to that knowledge; but one thing I do, letteth go those things which are past, and stretched out to the things which are before,
Then the five men that had gone to spy out the land, went in and took the graven image and the ephod, and the family gods, and the molten image; and the priest was by the gate with the six hundred armed men.
At that time, when Eli was laid down in his place (now his eyes had begun to grow dim, so that he could not see),
and we have taken ten men of a hundred, of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand of a myriad, to receive provision for the people, to do, when they came to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly which it hath done in Israel.'
And Saul was very angry and this saying was contrary unto him; and he said, They have given David glory in tens of thousands, and to me for only thousands: what more is there for him but the kingdom?
And he said unto him, "O Lord, how shall I save Israel? Behold, my family is the poorest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house."
And thou shalt passed by from thence, and onward and thou shalt come unto the oak of Tabor, and found thee there have three men going up unto God to Beth-el, one bearing three kids, and one bearing three cakes of bread, and one bearing a bottle of wine,
Behold, an old man came from his work out of the field at even. Now the man was from the hill-country of Ephraim; and he dwelt in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamites:
So they passed by Jebus, and went on their journey, and the sun went down upon them when they were by Geba, which is in the tribe of Benjamin:
So and more also do God to the enemies of David, if I leave of all that is his by the morning light any male.
For in finding fault with them he saith, "Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, that I will pay a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
Wherefore, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
But Saul, with Jonathan his son and the people that were with them, waited in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the tents of the Philistines were in Michmash.
For he did put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice; wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
And David addeth again to ask of Jehovah: therefore Jehovah answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah, for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.'
And the men of the city said to Jehoash, "Bring out thy son that he may die, for he hath pulled out the altar of Baal, and cut down the Asherah, that was by it."
And his daughter-in-law, wife of Phinehas, pregnant, about to be borne, and she heard the tidings of the taking of the ark of God, that her father-in-law and her husband have died, and she bowed his head, and beareth, for her pangs have turned upon her.
When he made mention of God's ark, Eli fell from off his seat backward by the side of the gate; and his neck brake, and he died; for he was an old man, and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
Therefore Saul said, "Let them cast the lot between me and my son Jonathan," and Jonathan was chosen.
"Now therefore, if ye have dealt truly and righteously, in that thou hast made Abimelech king, and if thou hast dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done unto him according to the worthy of his hands
For this cause let the hands which are hanging down be lifted up, and let the feeble knees be made strong,
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah with thee, O mighty one of valour.'
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek and went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of were palm-trees.
She dwelt under Deborah's palm-tree between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And the man, the master of the house went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
and the elders of Gilead say unto Jephthah, Therefore now, we have turned back unto thee; and go with us, and fought against the children of Ammon, and thou shalt be to us for head even all the inhabitants of Gilead.'
Then Gideon said unto them, I have a request to make unto you; let each man give me the ear-rings he hath taken. For they had gold pendants, because they were Ishmaelites.)
So Hannah rose up after they had made an end of eating and drinking in Shiloh. Now Eli the priest was sitting on his seat by the doorpost of Yahweh's temple.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels: thou crownest him with glory and honor and hast set him over the works of thy hands.
Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed strong in fight, turned to flight the hosts of the aliens.
But if ye shall not be able to declare it, thou shalt give me thirty shirts and the same number of coats. They answered him, Put forth the dark saying that we may hear it.
And Abiathar informed David that Saul had slain Jehovah's priests.
"Yahweh, when thou wentest forth of Seir, when thou didst march out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, The heavens also dropped. Yea, the skies drop water.
I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land.
Do not regard thy maid-servant as the vile, but because of the enough of my cares and my provocation I have spoken all of this."
According to all the works that they have done from the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, when they forsake me, and serve other gods, so they do also to thee.
And when Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, they told him, "Look, David is in the wilderness of and Gedi."
Then me, up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, "Doesn't David hide himself with us in the strongholds in the wood, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of the wilderness? for
The men of Israel went forth to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them at Gibeah.
And Gideon went in, and prepared a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of flour; the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it.
Now Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works for thee very good;
minister of the holy places and of the true tabernacle, which Jehovah hath planted, not man.
And when the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian, came before Jehovah,
And when the seventh day came, they said unto the wife of Samson: Soothe thy husband, and persuade him to tell thee what the dark saying meaneth. But if thou wilt not do it, we will burn thee, and thy father's house. Hast thou called us to the marriage on purpose to strip us?
And the God of the peace, that brought up out of the dead the great shepherd of the sheep in the blood of an everlasting covenant, even our Lord Jesus,
Then did the horse-hoofs clatter with the coursings, The coursings of their strong horses;
And by faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
The children of Dan went their way; and when Micah saw that they were too mighty for him, he turned and departed unto his house.
And all the people also cut down every man his bough, and go after Abimelech, and set at the high place, and burn by these the high place with fire, and also all the men of the tower of Shechem die, about a thousand men and women.
Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye always obedience, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, with fear and trembling your own salvation work out,
Therefore through him let us offer up a sacrifice of thanksgiving continually unto God, which is the fruit of lips that confess his name.
And Abiathar showed David that Saul had slain the Lord's priests.
Now there was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Seror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphia, the son of a man of a Benjamite, valiant and strong.
and Jesse said to David his son, Take, I pray, for thy brethren, this ephah of parched and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp to thy brethren;
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent to minister for them, who shall receive the inheritance of salvation?
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife; and cut up his concubine, and divided her, limb by limb, into twelve pieces, and sent her throughout all the borders of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down to the land of the children of Israel that day twenty and two thousand men.
Now Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
Saul was very wroth, and this saying displeased him: and he said, "They have called David ten thousands, and to me they have called only thousands. What can he have more but the kingdom?"
Come, ye rulers of Israel, ye that gave yourselves freely among the peoples; praise Jehovah.
And he humbled himself, being obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross.
Then the Philistines went and encamped in Judah, round Lehi.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto thee.
in that it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts in the provocation;
But when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us; when Jehovah thy God was thine anointed.
having the same an agony which thou sawest in me, and therefore hear is in me.
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
And it came to pass about ten days, that Jehovah smote Nabal, and he died,
Then Samuel said unto Saul, "Stop and I will tell you what Jehovah said unto me last night." So he said unto him, "Speak."
Righteous before the time of her death, they that wait her said, "Do not, for thou hast borne a son." But she did not answer, or pay any heed.
Then the woman came in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, until it was light.
Then David took from her hands her offering: and he said unto her, Return to thy house, in peace; behold, I have observed thy voice, and taken your oblation with obeisance.
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was greatly distressed by reason of the archers.
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun, twelve cities.
After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite, judged Israel.
But the army said unto Saul, "Must Jonathan die, who accomplished this great victory in Israel? Far from it! As Jehovah liveth, not a hair perish from his head shall fall to the ground, for he hath wrought with God this day." So the army ransomed Jonathan and he did not die.
And Jehovah said unto Gideon, `Too many the people that were with thee for my giving Midian into their hand, lest Israel beautify itself against me, saying, My hand hath given victory unto me;
And he said, "Go." He sent her away for two months: and she departed, she and her companions, and mourned her virginity upon the mountains.
And the word of Jehovah is unto Samuel, saying,
Then David went up from thence, and dwelt in strongholds breasts.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And thou shalt go forward from thence, and shalt come unto the oak of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men going up to God, to Beth-el, one bearing three kids, and another bearing three cakes of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine.
And Samuel presented the whole tribes of Israel, and the tribe of Benjamin is taken,
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, do that which seemeth thee good; tarry till thou have weaned him; only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman sitting down, and gave her son suck until she weaned him.
And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan;
For they came up with their cattle and their tents. They came in as locusts for multitude. Both they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land to destroy it.
Out of Ephraim he destroyed them into Amalek, and after him out of Benjamin into thy people, O Amalek: Out of Machir there came down princes, and out of Zebulun they that led the army to battle.
Jehovah hath delivered into your bonds the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeb: What can I have done like unto what thou hast done? And when he had said this, their spirit was pacified, wherewith they swelled against him.
And David was in a very precarious elevation, for the people spake of stoneth him; for the souls of all the people were bitter, each one over his sons and his daughters. But David strengthened himself in Jehovah his God.
Then the Hebrews that had been with the Philistines for a while, and went up with them unto their tents, encompassing were joined to them that were with Saul and Jonathan;
Then said he unto Jether, his first-born, Arise, Put them to death; but the child is not take out his sword, fearing because he was yet a man.
Now I have heard that thou hast shearers. Now while your shepherds were with us, we did not wrong, them, and nothing of theirs was lacking; all the days they were in Carmel.
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, `Hannah, why weepest thou? and why dost thou not eat? and why is thy heart suffering? am I not better to thee than ten sons?'
And this will we do, if God permit.
Then said all the trees to the thorn-bush, Come thou, reign over us.
And Saul saw that he was exceeding understanding, and began to beware of him.
Moreover as for me, Far be it from me that I should have sinned against Jehovah, and ceasing to pray for you; but I will teach you the good and the right way:
And Elkanah went to Ramath, unto his house, and the lad hath been serving Jehovah, the presence of Eli the priest;
Women received back their dead by resurrection. But others tortured, not had respect of release, that they might gain a better resurrection.
Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, as the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay us and our people.
To-day, Jehovah will deliver you into my hand: I will smite you, and take your head from off thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel,
And if thus I say to the young man, Behold, the arrows beyond thee. go, for Jehovah hath sent thee away;
But we are not drawers back to perdition; but of faith to saving soul.
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; because ye have put me in a land of the South, give me also springs of water. And he gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
And Abimelech assaulting the city all that day; and took it, and slew the inhabitants thereof, and brake down it, so that he sowed salt therein.
Be not led away with divers and strange doctrines. For it is best that the heart be established with grace, not with meats: which have not been profited those that walk in them.
Against whom hath the king of Israel come out? Whom dost thou pursue? A dead dog? A flea?
And he had thirty sons that rode upon thirty ass colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havothjair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
Not one living man or woman did David ever take back with him to Gath, fearing lest they should give account of what was done, and say, This is what David did, and so hath he kept all the time while he hath been a sojourner in the land of the Philistines.
And he said unto me, 'Look, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, therefore do no wine nor strong drink, and do not eat any unclean thing, for the child shall be a Nazirite of God from travail until the day of his death.'"
The men of Ephraim said unto him, "Why hast thou dealt thus with us, that ye didn't call us when thou wentest to fight with Midian?" They rebuked him, sharply.
Now the name of his first-born son was Joel: and the name of the second was Abijah, judges in Beer-sheba.
And when Saul inquired of the Lord, Jehovah gave him no answer, by a dream or by the Urim or by the prophets.
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seek the asses.
And they rose up early, and it came to pass, when the dawning of the day, that Samuel called unto Saul, upon the roof; saying, Arise, and I will send thee away;' and Saul arose, and they go out, both of them (he and Shemuel, without.
But unto which of the angels said he at any time, Sit thou on my right hand, Till I make thine enemies underneath thy feet?
From the heavens they fought: The stars from their highways fought with Sisera.
And as he was speaking with them, the contentious, the Philistine, of Gath, Goliath by name, came out from the Philistines' lines and said the same words, in David's hearing.
which we have, as an anchor of the soul, both sure and of long continuance, and they went into that within the veil,
Then shalt thou go down before me to Gilgal, where I will come unto thee; for the oblation of burnt-offerings, and peace-offerings, wait there seven days until I come unto you and show thee what thou hast to do.
And Samson called unto Jehovah, and said, "My Lord Jehovah, remember me! I pray you, give me strength this one time, O God, and I will repay with one act of vengeance to the Philistines for my eyes."
There was at that time Jephte the Gileadite, the son of a valiant man and a mighty man, the son of a woman that was a harlot, and his father was Gilead.
For the priesthood being being interpreted, it is needful that a translation also be made of the law.
And the six hundred men appointed with their weapons of war, that were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
of Asher destroyed not the inhabitants of Accho, and of Sidon, of Ahalab, and of Achazib, and of Helba, and of Aphek, and of Rehob:
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for men abhorred the oblation of Jehovah.
And the other kine go right in the way, in the way to Beth-shemesh, in one highway they are gone, going and lowing, and have not turned aside to the right hand or to the left. and the princes of the Philistines go after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh,
and build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this stronghold in the appointed manner, and take the second bullock, and offer up a burnt-offering with the wood of Asherah, that thou shalt cut down.
And of ten days after, when Jehovah smote Nabal, so that he died.
Jehovah called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, "Here I am, for ye called me." Eli perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
And Saul said unto him, Why hast thou conspired against me, thou, and the son of Jesse, and thou gavest him bread and a sword, and hast devised Jehovah for him, that he should rise up against me, continuing a thing seem right before unto this day.
So they took counsel, and said, Behold, there is a yearly feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is on the north of the city of Beth-el, and on the east side of the way, that goeth from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of the city of Lebona.
But Saul and the people spared Agag, And the best of the sheep, of the cattle, and of the fat bullocks and seven lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them; but everything that was vile and refuse to let them go, that they destroyed utterly.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then I will give him to Jehovah all the days of his life; and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through faith, in Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:
Thy daughters he shall take to be makers of myrrh, and cooks and bread-makers.
