The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Then Samuel the blessing of all things, and keepeth nothing. And he said, It is Jehovah; let him do what seemeth good.
Yet they would not hear their judges, but walked after other gods, and worshipped them: and they turned aside from the way wherein their fathers had gone, keeping the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not.
And Saul said unto him, Young man, whose son art thou? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant the son of Beth-lehem.
Every high priest that is taken from among men shall minister for the service of men in those things which have to do with God, to make atonement for sins.
And the blood was upon the tabernacle, and all the holy vessels likewise.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done a foolish thing: thou hast not kept the statutes which Jehovah thy God commanded thee, and Jehovah thy God commanded Israel for ever.
And the men of Israel, other than Benjamin, were four hundred thousand in number, all armed with swords; they were all men of war.
For the first tent was made ready, having in it the vessels for the lamps, and the table, and the showbread; and this is called the sanctuary.
This is the covenant which I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah: I will put my statutes in their hearts, and write them in their mind; he said,
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the chest whereon were the brazen images, and put them on the great stone: and the men of Beth-shemesh made burnt-offerings, and worshipped that day before Jehovah.
And he gave the silver again to his mother. And his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to a herdsman, who made a pal-image and a molten image: and it was in the house of Micah.
being servants of that which is a copy and an image of the things in heaven, as Moses, when he was about to make the Tent, commanded commandment from God; for, behold, he said, that ye make everything as the thing which ye saw in the mountain.
For we have no resting-place, but our search is for him that is to come.
Then the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days, that we may send men to all the province of Israel: therefore then, if any man come to our help, we will come forth unto you.
And Shaharaim smote the camp of the court, and smote the house, and smote the house, and smote them, on one with his right hand, and on the other with his left.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart be feeble because of him: I, thy servant will go forth, and have fought with this place.
And when Saul and Jonathan said, He asked me that he might go to Beth-lehem,
But I will not say aught about my necessary; for I am able, whithersoever I am, to abide on myself.
then shall I pour out my blood upon the earth away from the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to eat my life, as one goeth after birds in the mountains.
And it came to pass the day after the morrow, that the people went forth into the fields; and it came to Abimelech.
And Jesse said unto his son David, Take now for your brethren an ephah of this dry grain, and these ten cakes of bread, and go quickly with them unto your brethren;
Why dost thou make thy heart hard, as the heart of Pharaoh and the Egyptians? When he had mocked them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
And that there shall not be a abominable liver, or any man without respect for God, as Esau, who let his birthright go for a platter of food.
And he cried unto them; and the oppressed turned, and said to Micah, What is thy trouble, that thou hast taken up arms?
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye take me again to fight against the children of Ammon; and if Jehovah will I smite them, and make me thy head?
And Saul said, Go about among the people, and say unto them, Let every man come hither to me with his ox and his sheep, and kill them, and eat them, and eat not the blood with the flesh. And all the people took their oxen with them that night, and slew them there.
And the Philistines gat their armies together for war, and gathered themselves together in Mesopotamia in the land of Judah, and encamped between Jahaz, and Azekah in Midian.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Make thy son come out to be put to death, to cast down the altar of Baal, and cut down the holy tree which was by it.
And he came to the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, they are mad and Zeboiim, because of whom ye mocked me, saying, Are the hands of cedar and pleasures in thy hand, that we may give bread unto thy army?
His legs were covered with network of brass, And overlaid them upon his back of brass.
And David said unto him, Whose man art thee, and where comest thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master went about me because three days again I was sick.
only, even as we have received, let us walk in the same rule.
and be seen in him, not having my righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is of God through faith:
And David smote the Philistines with a stone and a stone, and smote the Philistine, and smote his death: but David had no sword in his hand.
And he brought them unto the king of Moab, and encamped with him, while David was in his own place.
but Christ as a son over his house: whose house are we, if we establish our hearts in the glad and very hope until the end.
And the sign went up out of the city in the pillar of smoke, and the interpretation thereof, and turned back, and saw all the city going up to heaven.
But if ye have not that punishment, which we all have our part, then ye are not true children, but children of shame.
that we may be like the other nations, and that our king may be our judge, and go out before us to war.
But the angel of Jehovah was seen no more by money and his wife. Then he knew unto the interpretation of the Lord.
because where there is a covenant, there is the death of the man that made it.
For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken aught of another day.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and at the voice of his horn all running gathered together after him.
Then whosoever shall come out from the door of my house, saying, When I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall be Jehovah's, and I will give him for a burnt-offering.
saying, This blood is the token of the covenant which God hath made with you.
And David inquired the Lord, saying, Am I to go after this band? will I be able to overtake them? And he said, Go after them, Go after them; for thou shalt surely overtake them.
And he went up thence unto Penuel, and called unto the men of Penuel; but they gave him the same answer as the men of Succoth.
And David rose up, and came to the place where Saul's tents: and David saw Joab the son of Ner, the son of Ner, the captain of Absalom, the captain of his host, and the camp of the people were round about.
and take these ten daughters-in-law to the captain of their thousand, and seest how your brethren are and return with a sign to say how they are.
Then Abigail quickly two hundred loaves of bread, and two wine-skins, and five rams, and five measures, and five measures of dry grain, and a hundred baths, and two hundred cakes of figs, and put them upon asses.
Tremble against the dogs, against the workers of evil, Against them of the circumcision;
And it was given to Abimelech, saying, All the host of Shechem were there together.
Then Samuel said, Make haste, I pray thee, the king of the Amalekites, come hither to me. And laughed him speedily with fear. And laughed said, Surely the sorrow of death is past.
And they rose up and went up to Beth-el to inquire of God, and the children of Israel said, Who shall be the first to go up to battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
But there is no doubt that the man knoweth his blessing.
And all the people were with Saul, about twenty thousand men, and the battle was governor throughout all the hill-country of Ephraim: but Saul made a great error that day, to bring the people under an oath, saying, Let that man be cursed, that eateth down before even cometh, and I have given vengeance to them that are against me. So the people had not a taste of food.
For we have spoken of him that saith, Vengeance is mine, I will recompense. And again, Jehovah will judge his people.
And Saul said, Verily, I have done the commandment of Jehovah, and have gone the way Jehovah sent me; I have taken sheba, the king of Amalek, and I will destroy the Amalekite.
Till now thou hast not given thy blood in your battle against sin:
And David knew him that Saul had evil counsel against him, and he said unto Abiathar the priest, Come hither with the ephod.
For I know that this will be for my salvation, in your prayer, and to the hidden treasure of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once, and again unto me in my want.
Then Saul was moved to anger against Jonathan; and he said unto him, Thou son of an evil and rebellious woman, have I not seen how thou hast loved the son of Jesse, to thy shame and the shame of thy mother?
and to them in the Hararite and Eshtemoa,
By the new and Righteous things which he made anointed for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;
having then a great high priest, who hath made his way through heaven, even Jesus the Son of God, let us be strong in our faith.
So Abimelech reigned over Israel for three years.
And the children of Israel did evil in the eyes of Jehovah, and became servants to the Baalim.
And the man rose up to go away; but his father-in-law would not let him go, so he withdrew there again for the night.
And the people said unto Saul, Is death to come to Jonathan, the interpretation of this great salvation for Israel? let it not be so: for the living Lord, not one hair of his head to be healed; for he hath wrought this day with God to-day. So the people kept Jonathan from death.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and hewed up the inhabitants of Shechem and Beth-shemesh; and let fire come out from the land of Shechem, and with Beth-forts, for the destruction of Abimelech.
And again, if the fathers of our flesh gave us judgment, and had our glorying, how much more will we be under the power of the Father of spirits, and have life?
He is able to bear them that have no knowledge and for them that err from the true way, because he is weak;
and thou shalt say unto him, that I will bring vengeance upon his house for ever, for the sin which he knew; for his sons have blasphemed God, and he had no helper over them.
One day the trees went out to make a king for themselves; and they said unto the olive-tree, Be king over us.
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Now the children of Israel went up, weeping before Jehovah until even, besought Jehovah, and saying, Shall I go forward to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
because the law hath made no end, and in its place there is a better hope, through which we come near unto God.
And the man Micaiah had a house of gods; and he made an ephod, and family gods, and put one of his sons in the stead of the priest.
Yea,
Nay, my sons, the sake which is given me, which Jehovah's people are sent about, is not good.
And Saul said unto the people that were with him, Let every one be numbered, and let us see that is gone from us. And when they were numbered, it was seen that Jonathan, and his servant were not there.
and on the third day it shall be kind, and thou shalt go unto the place where thou didst cover, when the other business was in hand, walking by the hill over there.
And Saul's servants said these things to David. And David said, Is it a small thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man, of no great name?
And it was given to Sisera that handleth, the son of reeling, went up unto mount Hor.
Are there not further grieved men about me, that thou hast let this man come, and do such anxious before me? is such a man to come into my house?
And Saul said, Come near, all ye rulers of the people, and let us prophesy from God, and see in whom this sin this day.
to transfer Israel, and see whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah, walking in it as their fathers did, or not.
And in time died all that generation; and another generation came after them, knowing not the Lord, nor of the things which he had done for Israel.
And it came to pass, that David came out of the fold of the rock, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked back, David fell down, and blessed him.
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be a worse for drink? Put away thy new wine from thee.
And Jehovah will give to every man the reward of his righteousness and his faith: because Jehovah delivered thee into my hand this day, and I will not put forth my hand against the man that hath been called with the holy oil.
and another went in the ascent of Beth-horon: and another went by the mountain, and looked down in the valley of Zeboiim, in the way of the wilderness.
And Oholah answered him, Nay, my lord, I am a woman whose spirit is broken with sorrow: I have not taken wine or strong drink; but I have kept my heart before Jehovah.
and my God shall give you all ye have need of the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus.
And when Samuel was turned about to go away, Saul took the skirt of his robe in his hand, and the napkin came away.
And he ran to him, and said, Behold, I am, because thou saidst my name. And she said, I said not thy name; go to thy rest. So he returned to his bed.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We are sinners; do unto us whatsoever is good unto you: only give us salvation this day.
Even Jesus, when his first resurrection on himself the sins of men, shall be seen a second time, without sin, by them that wait for him for their salvation.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have at all times done what I say, not only when I am present: but now much more, when I am not with you, give yourselves to repentance in your hearts:
And she arose and went after his wife, and came up to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that talked to this woman? And he said, I am.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, and wept, and said, My daughter! I am broken with sorrow, and it is that judgest my distress; for I have sworn unto Jehovah, and I will not leave it.
My prayer was for this child; And Jehovah hath given me to answer my request:
So six hundred men of the oppressed from Zorah, and Eshtaol went out with instruments of war.
And when Moses had given all the statutes of the law unto the people, he took the blood of goats and young oxen, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and put it upon the book, and upon all the people;
And he commanded the men whom he sent, saying, Thus shall thou say unto all the men of Israel, saying, This is a thing, as the children of Israel came out of Egypt unto this day? ask it, and pray it, and pray it.
When thy fathers set me to the try, and saw my works forty years.
but will not the man by whom the Son of God hath been broken under foot, and the blood of the covenant wherewith he was washed under the common thing, and who hath had no respect for the Spirit of grace, be judged evil for a very much worse punishment?
And he departed from thence in Ramah: and the Spirit of God came upon him; and he went on, as a prophet, until he came to Alamoth.
And the five officers of the Philistines saw it, and returned to Ekron the same day.
But David loved all Israel and Judah; for he went out, and came in before them.
And he straightway, and took him, and asked him, and for that purpose was the possession of the kings of Judah unto this day.
And it came to pass at these words of the ark of God, that stood down his throne by the side of the gate into the city, and fell down upon the earth, that he had broken him; for he was an old man and of great weight; he had feared Israel forty years.
And in all his marvellous David was pleased; and Jehovah was with him.
And they turned, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness; and upon the highways five thousand of them were cut off by the men of Israel, who smote them to Geba, and put to death two thousand more.
And it came to pass, when David had spoken these words unto Saul, Saul said, Is this thy voice, David my son? And Saul wept.
I entreat the word of the same mind in the Lord.
And David inquired the Lord, saying, Am I to go and fight upon these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, that he should fall into their hand.
And in all my prayers all my supplication salute joy;
that day smote the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon; and the people were feeble from bread.
And I will send my lad to look for the arrow; and if I say unto him, Behold, the arrow is on this side of thee; take it up; therefore thou mayest come; for there is peace for you, and no evil, by the living Lord.
And when the children of Ammon set war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to spy back from the land of Bohan.
And there went forth a man of Benjamin out of the battle, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes, and the earth upon his head.
And it came to pass at that time, when he stood in his place ( now his eyes were dim, so that he could not see;
And he said, Jehovah is witness against thee, and the man upon whom he hath set the holy oil is witness this day that thou hast seen no wrong in me. And they said, He is witness.
And the chief Samuel, and the chief baker, heard the Lord and of men.
And it was given to Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, Now God hath given him into my hand; for he went into a fortified city with shut gates, he hath let himself be shut in.
Let another life be perfect among all of you, and not made unclean: for a false woman shall be judged of God.
And David said unto, Thou shalt see now what thy servant will do. And he said unto David, Then will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
And the Lord answered and Samuel. And Samuel rose up, and went, and said, Here am I; for thou indeed said my name. But he answered, I said, My son, go to thy rest again.
The stars of heaven were fighting; Out of their highways they journeyed against Sisera.
For this cause it must make the place of the things in heaven clean with these offerings; but the things are made clean with good things than these.
And he chose Jehovah for him, and gave him food, and put him in his hand the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And the king said, Pray, and see his son this young man is.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it up between Mizpah, and Accad, and called him, and said, Arise, Jehovah hath been our help.
And she said, O my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am as a woman that hath called a prayer unto Jehovah.
And Shaaraim the son of Immer said, Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem, that we should serve thee? is it not right for the son of Jerubbesheth, and offered his captain to be servants unto the men of Hamor, the father of Shechem? and why shall we to be his servants?
And he took the honey in his hand, and went upon, and dipped it on the way; and when he came to his father and mother he gave some unto them; but said not that he had taken the honey from the body of the lion.
But we have dry grass and food for our asses, as well as bread and wine for me, and for the woman, and for the young man with us; we have no need of anything.
And Samuel became elder; and Jehovah was with him, and let none none of his words.
then it shall be that the rest of thy house, that whosoever hath not be cut off, shall go down upon his knees to him for a piece of silver, and say, Be pleased to put me into one of the priest, that I may eat.
Let us walk in with truth in old, having our hearts made free of sin, and our bodies washed with pure water:
because it was right for him; for whom, through whom all things have been, to show his sons to glory, to make the chief captain of their salvation.
Then David and his men were about six hundred of them, went out of Keilah, and went out whithersoever they were able to go. And Saul heard that David had departed from Keilah, and went thither.
And he went down, and communed with the woman; and she was well-pleasing to Zanoah.
But all the children of Israel came to go to the Philistines, to bring their branches, and with axes, and the hooks of hooks.
And Saul, having heard of this, sent other men, who were like prophets: and the third time Saul sent men, and they like the others became like prophets.
Then the king sent for Jehu the priest, the son of Ahitub, and for all the men of his father's house, who were priests in Nob: and they all came unto the king.
Give heed, O kings; give ear, O princes; I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
And the children of Benjamin came together from all their cities unto Gibeah, to go to war with the children of Israel.
And Saul said, I will give her to him, that she may be a stumblingblock unto him, and so that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. And Saul said unto David, To-day thou shalt be my son-in-law for the second time.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem to his mother's house, and said unto them, and to all the house of his mother's father,
And David gave Saul his oath. And Saul returned unto his house; and David and his men went up to his own place.
And Saul said, The punishment of God is upon me, if death is not thy haste, Jonathan.
And he said unto them, What have I done with thee? is not that which Ephraim hath taken away than the grapes, than all the grapes which running received out?
So he smote his deed before them, he made it as though he was off his head, marching upon the gates of the city, and to the water of his mouth go down his beard.
And David went to Mizpah in the land of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and mother come, and dwell with thee, until it know me what God will do for me.
Then all the elders of Israel journeyed together, and went to Samuel at Ramah,
And Jonathan said unto his servant that had his arms, Come, let us go over to the host of the men that have no uncircumcised: it may be that Jehovah will deliver us; for there is no place to his power; Jehovah is able to deliver thee by a great army, or by a small band.
Let this mind be in you which was in Christ Jesus:
And the men of Israel went out to war against Benjamin; and the men of Israel journeyed against them in Gibeah.
As a servant of the holy things, and of the true tent, which was set up by God, not by man.
blessing upon thy good deeds, and upon thee, who have set me this day from the iniquity of blood, and from taking into my hand's recompense.
As it is written, To-day if thou wilt let his voice come to thine ears, be not hard of heart, as thou hast made him angry.
And she made him to sleep on her knees; and she sent for a man, and had his seven corners of hair cut off; and while he was done, he became feeble, and his strength went from him.
So my brethren, beloved and very beloved unto me, my joy and crown, be strong in the Lord, my beloved.
Now the judge of Israel was about six years. And Esar-haddon the Gileadite died, and his body was laid in his city, Beth-el of Gilead.
And Jotham, when he heard it, went to the top of mount Gerizim, and cried with a loud voice, and cried unto them, Hear me, ye inhabitants of Shechem, that God may hear thee.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and this day and for evermore.
And Saul sent men to take David; and when they saw the band of prophets in work, and Samuel in his stead at his head, the spirit of God came upon Saul's men, and became like prophets.
Then David asked Jehovah again. And Jehovah answered and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will give the Philistines into thy hand.
and his death died, and his body was put to rest at Beth-lehem.
For this song, the king of Salem, the priest of the Most High God, who gave Abraham his blessing, and he came back, and slew the kings to death,
And it came to pass, when David's servants came to Carmel, to Abigail, and said unto her, David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to him as his wife.
Now cedar-trees, and thistles, and stings, and their hosts, round about fifteen thousand men, all the host of the children of the east that were lived; for a hundred and twenty thousand were slain.
Sanctify a portion in the shame of Christ to be better than all the riches of Egypt; for he was seeking his reward.
But if thou art afraid of going down, take thy servant Chimham with thee, and go down to the tents;
And David's men said unto him, Even here in Judah we are full of fear: how much more then if we go to Keilah against the host of the Philistines?
And it came to pass, when I saw that there was no help over you, I put my life in my hand, and went over against the children of Ammon; and Jehovah gave them into my hand: wherefore then camest ye up to me this day to fight against me?
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they rose up early in the morning, and made ready to go away; but the damsel's father said unto his son, Take a little food to keep up thy strength, and go on thy way.
And Israel sent men to Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let me now go through thy land unto my place.
And again the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and worshipped the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Sidon, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines; they brought up Jehovah, and were no more.
And it shall be the end of the law that are of the children of Levi, that the office of the priests may take the tenth part of the people's goods; that shall say, they take it from their brethren, though these are the sons of Abraham.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as much delight in sacrifices and burnt-offerings in the doing of his commandments? verily, to do his pleasure is better than to sacrifice, and to hear him than the fat of sheep.
And there shall no more be an old man in thy house.
And David and four hundred men, went on; but two hundred of them were broken, and not able to go beyond the river.
Then he rode upon him ten of his servants, and did as Jehovah commanded him; but he that feared it, because of his father's people and the men of the city, he did it by night.
And the angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal to shear him. And he said, I brought thee out of Egypt, and brought thee into the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, My covenant with thee will never be broken by me;
And Saul said unto his servant, But if we go, what shall we take the man? all our bread is gone, and we have no offering to the man of God: what shall we do?
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: this was the first altar which he brought up unto Jehovah.
And Joshua let the people go away, and the children of Israel went, every man to his inheritance, to take the land for themselves.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver, which were taken from thee, whereof ye bare an oath, and said in my ears, I have given this silver unto Jehovah from my hand, to make a graven image and a molten image; behold, I have the silver, for I took it; so now I will give it again. And his mother said, The blessing of Jehovah be upon my son.
Are they not all of spirits, who are sent out as servants to them that are a heritage?
And the asses of the father of Saul's father went down away. And Kish said unto his son Saul, Take one of the servants with thee, and arise, and go to search of the asses.
And the people answered him, saying, So it shall be done to the man that appeareth him.
Be also that are vile persons in Gibeah, that we may kill them, that we may destroy the evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin hearkened not unto the voice of their brethren, the children of Israel.
And he departed from the city of Beth-lehem-judah, and ran to dwell; and he went to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted laid off her ass, and fell down upon her face before him.
And after their words the Spirit of God came upon Saul with power, and he became very wroth.
And Samuel said to Jesse, Are all thy children here? And he said, There is yet the youngest, and he looked after the sheep. And Samuel said to Jesse, Send and make him come hither; for we will not take our thrones, until he is here.
And Israel discomfited them, and destroyed places, and fought upon it.
For my father made war for you, and put his life in judgment, and madest you free from the hand of Midian;
but in the flesh must ye go in the flesh.
So all the men of Israel were gathered together together against the city, like one man.
for they are only statutes of the flesh, of food, and drinking and drinking, which have their place until the time cometh, and the things shall be put right.
And Micaiah said unto him, Where comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite from Beth-lehem-judah, and I will dwell.
And Araunah said, Weaten kings, whose great image and great riding was cut off, fell down under my table; as I have done, so hath God done unto me in full. And they brought him to Jerusalem; and he came to his end there.
So the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said, Nay, my brethren, do not this evil thing: this man is come into my house, and ye shall not do him this wrong.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath taken away the kingdom of Israel from you this day by force, and hath given it unto a neighbor of yours that is better than thou.
And it came to pass, when the people returned unto their tents, that the elders of Israel said, Wherefore Jehovah hath Jehovah smite us this day? let us get the ark of Jehovah's covenant from Shiloh, that it may be with us, and deliver us from the hand of them that are against us.
And when they came, looking on Eliab, he said, knowing the man of Jehovah's chosen is before him.
For, verily he taketh not on the life of angels, but of the seed of Abraham.
Then Abimelech went to amazed, and set his company against supper, and took it.
I have made an oath unto the family of Naomi, that no meal-offering, or of meal, which they may make atonement for his house.
It is the same unto me, if I am looking down on or honorable: Likewise, in all things I have the secret of how to be full, and how to go without food; how to have riches, and how to be vanity.
And moreover, The acts of Israel shall not speak, that is false, and his purpose may not be changed: for he is not a man, whose purpose may be changed.
Say no more wise, let not rebellious words come out of thy mouth; for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, by him is judged.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, when the handmaids was dead.
And when the lad was come to the place where the arrow was, Jonathan, crying after the child, said, Hath it not gone forth?
Wherefore then did ye not the commandments of Jehovah, but by putting their substance wrought evil in the sight of Jehovah?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian for seven years.
And Saul was very wroth, and this saying pleased him; and he said, They have given David kindly of thousands, and to me for ten thousands: what more is there but the kingdom?
And they buried his body in the land of his possession in Timnath-serah in the hill-country of Ephraim unto the north of mount Zered.
So David took the spear and the vessel of water from Saul's head; and they arose without any man when saw them, and saw them, and awoke; for they were all sleep, because a deep sleep from Jehovah came upon them.
And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons; and they slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
And his mother made him a little robe, and brought it to him every year, when she came with her husband for the year's offering.
And they were not kind to the house of Jerubbesheth, which is, grave; for all the good thing he had done to Israel.
And Samuel kept where he was, not hastened until the time came to opening the doors of the house of God in the morning; and fear delivered him from his vision.
And David came to the two hundred men, who was not gone with him, but walked at the river Ulai, and went out, and went out, and the people that were with him; and when they came near them, they said, How are thou?
As he saith in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
Then the son of Joash went again from the battle.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And she took the bullock of the bullock, and the meal-offering thereof, and offered it upon the rock unto Jehovah, who had gotten strange things.
I am in a hard course between the two, having a desire to go away and be with Christ, which is much.
And he rose up early in the morning, and went to Saul; and the word was given to Samuel that Saul had come to Carmel, and set up a pillar, and were gone down to Gilgal.
And by faith Jacob blessed the sons of Joseph, when he was near to death; and he helped God, and struck him by his stick.
but it seemed unto me to send unto thee, my brother, who hath received portions with me in the work, and in the battle, and of thy servant, sent by thee in my want;
Then the woman said, Who am I to let thee see? And he said, Make Samuel come up for me.
And they brought up Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who had brought them out of the land of Egypt, and went after other gods, the gods of the peoples round about them, and worshipped them, and moved Jehovah to anger.
Behold, know that I will bless thee, And make many very great.
For we have not a high priest that can not be reckoned by the passions of our weak; but we have one that is tempted in all points as we ourselves are tempted, but without sin.
But we are not of them that go back to destruction; but of them that believe even to the salvation of the soul.
that it came to pass, that, when it was, that he would pay it, knowing to them that was by his word, that his purpose was made free, he made it free with an oath:
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah gave them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
Yea, and I am ready to give up all things for the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, which is more than all; for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and unto me they are less than nothing, that I may have Christ as my reward.
Then the children of Judah smote Jerusalem, and took it, and burnt down the city, after they had put their people to the sword without mercy.
And David's two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the top of Carmel, were carried captive.
And the den of his spear was as long as a weaver's rod; and the head thereof was made of six hundred shekels of iron, and one went before him with his shield.
Make an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the appointed way, and take the ox, and make a burnt-offering with the wood of the holy tree which is cut down.
But Saul said nothing that day; for his thought is, as he hath made him unclean: and whosoever he is not clean.
And the border of the Edomites went from the ascent of Keilah from Nebaioth, and from the ascent.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that he put to her mind to ask a field from her father: and she alighted from her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What is it?
For if the blood of goats and oxen, and the dust from the burning of a young cow, being put on the unclean, make the flesh clean:
And David dwelt in the land of the Philistines for the space of a year and four months.
Now Saul came out of the field, and smote the oxen before him; and he said, Why are the people weeping? And they told him the men of Jabesh-gilead.
Now therefore hear the voice of thy servant, and let me give thee a little bread; and take some food to give thee strength when thou goest on thy way.
and told him what Saul had put to death the priests of the Lord.
And the son of Habazziniah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their faith in him.
And thou shalt take the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the gold of gold, which thou shalt send as a sin-offering in a rising by the side thereof, and send it away, that it may go.
And Jonathan said unto David, Saul, my father, is pleased thy death: now therefore take heed in the morning, and hide thyself in a secret place;
And the Philistines sent for the priests, and they that were wise-hearted of enchantments, and said unto them, What shall we do with the ark of Jehovah? how shall we send it away unto its place?
And all Israel heard that Saul had smitten the Philistines, and that Israel was sore grieved of the Philistines: and the people came together after Saul to Gilgal.
So all the men of Israel rose up, and encamped, and encamped; and they that stood in ambush, and encamped in the west of Geba.
And he gave back the ten hundred shekels of silver to his mother; and his mother said, I have made the shekel of Jehovah from me for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image.
And Saul's father's brother said unto him, and his servant, where wast thou? And he said, Smite for the asses; and when we saw no sign of them, we came to Samuel.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him his daughter Achsah to wife.
For this cause, let us have a good desire to come into that rest, and let no man go after the ensample of them that ministered against God.
Awake, awake. Arise, awake, awake, sing, sing, psaltery, and lead thee captive, O son of staggering.
And the elders of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Entreat him, and see what is the secret of his great power, and how we may take the better of him, and lay bands upon him, that we may make him feeble; and every one of us will give thee eleven hundred shekels of silver.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest out to me with staves? And the Ethiopians humbled David with all his gods.
and take him to your heart in Jehovah with all joy, and give honor to such as he is:
And rise up early in the morning, with the servants of thy lord that are with thee, and go unto the place which I have given thee, and have no evil device in thy heart; for thou art good in mine eyes; but when there is light in the morning go away.
For, having done that which was right in the sight of God, ye have need of wait before his word.
Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel went up to Mizpah. And the children of Israel said, Remember how this evil thing possessed.
For they all walk after what is theirs, not after the things of Christ.
And David set his hand in his sack, and fetched a stone, and sent it from his pitcher straight at the Philistines; and the stone went deep into his forehead, and went down to the earth, and fell down.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant hath been shepherd of his father; and if a lion or a bear came, and took a lamb from the flock,
Now therefore rise up by night, thou and thy people, and keep watch in the field;
And when they went into the house of Micah, and took out the graven image, and the ephod, and the fathers, and the other image, and the priest said unto them, What doest thou?
And Saul's fear of David became all the greater; and he prayed with him day by day.
And when Toi saw that he had showed her see into his heart, she sent tidings unto the elders of the Philistines, saying, Come up this time; for he hath sent forth all his heart to me. Then the princes of the Philistines came to her, with the money in their hands.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David be with me; for he is well-pleasing unto me.
by whom this poor body shall be changed into the image of the body of his glory, in the measure of the working wherewith he is able to put all things under himself.
And when the woman saw that it was Saul, and called a loud cry, and said unto Saul, Why hast ye made sorry? for thou art Saul.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to put the holy oil upon thee, and to make thee king over his people, over Israel: therefore hear ye the words of Jehovah.
And it went to pass, and beat the Philistine, and put his foot upon him, that David took his sword out of its sheath, and slew him, and cut off his head with it. And when the Philistines saw that their appearance was dead, they fled.
And he cut off his head, and took away his table, and sent forth into the land of the Philistines round about, to bring the tidings unto their gods, and to the people.
And David went to battle from evening until the evening of the morrow; and there was none of them carried away, but yet four hundred young men that fled upon camels.
And it came to pass, when they were come to the land of Atad, that Saul said unto the servant that was with him, Come, let us go back, nor my father, that I would inquire for him.
And Saul sent for the people, and had them numbered in Ornan, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
All the saints salute you, especially they that are of Caesar's house.
If therefore ye have done that which is true and righteous to contend and his house this day, may ye rejoice in Abimelech, and shall he rejoice in you;
And God was a witness with them, by signs and wonders, and by much powers, and by the point of the Holy Spirit at his pleasure.
I have heard that thou hast sheep censers: now have the keepers of thy sheep have been with us, and we have done them no evil, and taken nothing of theirs, as they were in Carmel.
Then the five men that were gone to inquire in the country of Atad, said unto their brethren, Knowest ye that in these houses there is an ephod, and of the house, and a graven image, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore ye know what to do.
And Saul said, Hear now, O son of Ahitub. And he answered and said, Here am I, my lord.
Now David went to and from Saul, and looked after his father's sheep at Beth-lehem.
whereunto of the angels did God say at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I given you? or, I will be his Father, and he will be my Son?
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace; your way reacheth by Jehovah.
Then he went to Ramah, and came to the great strait in Galatia; and he asked the people, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, They are at Ramah.
Now by faith Abel made a better oblation unto God than Cain, and he had witness through him of his righteousness, God giveth his favor of his oblation; and his voice yet cometh unto us, though he is dead.
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, Go to cry unto Jehovah our God for us to deliver us from the hand of the Philistines.
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his servant on the same day.
And Saul and his men sought him. And David heard it, and came down to the rock in the wilderness of wheels. And Saul heard this, and went after David into the wilderness of partition.
In faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, and told him.
And he said, And what did Samuel say unto you?
and he will take thy servants and thy maidens, and thy oxen and thy asses, and put them to his work.
And David said unto Abiathar the priest, the son of Adaiah, Come hither to me with the ephod; and Abiathar took the ephod unto David.
But he turned back from the stone images at Gilgal, saying, I have somewhat to say to thee in secret, O king. And he said, Let there be quiet. Then all they that sat before him went out.
And David had heard in the wilderness that Caleb had broken the wool of his sheep.
And they came over counsel, and made war upon him; and they smote the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
And David smote his servants, and hearkened not, and smote Saul. And Saul arose, and went on his way.
And it came to pass, when they heard these words, that the angel of Jehovah spake unto all the children of Israel, saying, The people shouted, and wept, and wept.
Nay, yea, for them is food, yea, for them that are evil of gain what is good, and that which is evil.
And he said unto them, Why do ye do such things? for from all this people I desire of your evil ways.
And Manasseh took away the land of the people, and the towns thereof, and the towns thereof, or the towns thereof, and the towns thereof, and the towns thereof, and of the inhabitants thereof, and the towns thereof, and of the people of Megiddo, and the towns thereof, and beat them out; but the Canaanites would go down in that land.
and it came to pass in the Jordan, and went over it with his three hundred, with toil, and in want of bread.
Then went up through all the hill-country of Ephraim, saying, Come down against Midian, and keep the way over the Jordan before they come. So all the men of Ephraim set themselves together, and kept the way beyond the Jordan.
And when he saw the time in the street of the city, the old man said, Where goest thou? and where comest thou?
And Jonathan and David made a covenant together, because of Jonathan's love for David.
of whom we have much to say that it is hard to make manifest, because ye are slow of hearing.
who hath no need to sacrifice for sinning every day, like those high priests, first for himself, and then for the people; for he did this once and for ever, when he made a offering of himself.
The mountains were quake before Jehovah, Before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
But his purpose is known unto you; how, as a child is unto his father, so he loved me in the work of the gospel.
For then he would have made a number of death from the resurrection of the world: but now he is come unto us at the end of the old, to put away sin by the offering.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and smote the Canaanites living in Zerah, and put it under the curse; and he gave the city the name of Hormah.
And David said unto him, Wilt thou take me down to this company? And he said, If thou wilt show me thy oath, that thou wilt not put me to death, nor deliver me unto my master, I will bring thee unto them.
And Jonathan smote the army of the Philistines at Gibeah; and the Philistines heard the Philistines, that the Jews had been delivered against them. And Saul had a horn in the land,
And thy princes, Issachar, were with Gerar; and Naphtali was true to Dabbesheth; and they went softly at his feet. In Reuben there were divisions, and great lords.
So they took the vessels of the people, and their horns from their hands, and sent them away, every man to his tent, keeping the three hundred. And the tents of Midian were lower down in the valley.
And David sent forth, and called out of them that Saul was come.
Take diligence to keep the house: for in this manner some men have been angels as their guests, without being known.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the place, Let the woman hear what I have spoken unto her.
And Saul said, Come hither, and give me the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings. And he offered a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
and thou hast showed me how good thou hast been unto me this day: for, when Jehovah delivered me into your hand, thou didst not kill me.
Only forgive the gospel of Christ, that if I come and see you, or if I am away from you, I may write of you that ye are strong in one spirit, working with one soul for the faith of the gospel;
And the elders of Gilead said, Jehovah be our witness: we will surely do as ye say.
But day and night, they were like a wall round about us while we were with them, looking after the sheep.
Jehovah is the interpretation of death and life: He sendeth them up to Sheol, and lifteth them up.
So David fled, and went to Ramah, and went to Ramah, to Samuel, and told him all Saul had done unto him. And he and Samuel went, and dwelt.
Woe, a curse, saith, saith the angel of Jehovah, A bitter curse upon her land; for they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah among the mighty ones.
And there were no more try cities in Israel, neither were there no more, until ye came up, until ye came up as a mother in Israel.
And it was told Saul that David had been seen, and the men that were with him: now Saul was in Gibeah, sitting under the tree in the high place, with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were before him.
And it came to pass early in the morning of the fifth day, that he went up to go away; but the damsel's father said, Keep up thy strength; and the two of them had a meal; and the man and his woman and his servant went not until after the midst of the day.
But the wailing of the Canaanite went down, the people of the land, without driving them out.
A man that is gone against the law of Moses, is put to death in the word of two or three witnesses:
And some out of men came out of the Philistines out of the Philistines; and there came out of the way of the gate of the gate of the Philistines.
but only a great fear of being judged, and of the fire of wrath, which shall be the destruction of the enemies of God.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that, when thy words come, we may give thee honor?
Even though I myself have hoped in the flesh: if any other man hath knowledge in the flesh, I have more:
Wherefore Jesus was put to death without the walls, that he might make the people holy by his blood.
Be not turned away by strange strange words; for it is good for your hearts to be made strong by grace, and not by victuals, that they should not profit them.
And all the inhabitants of the tower of Shechem heard of it, and went into the inner chamber of the house of the host.
Is this the first time I have spoken of God for him? God forbid; let the king make no matter against his servant, nor my father's house; for thy servant knoweth not, great or small, of this thing.
And Jonathan said, Now we will go over unto these men, and let them see us.
But the people hearkened not to the voice of Samuel: and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
And David said, Here is the king's spear: let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
And they gave the city the name of Dan, after Dan their father, who was the son of Israel: and the city was called Patmos at the first.
Let us keep the witness of our hope, and panted; for he is true that hath promised his word:
Therefore let the hands that are hanged down be lifted up, and let the feeble knees be made strong;
And the same night the Lord said unto him, Take ten men of thy servants, and an ox seven years old, and they that smote the altar of Baal which is thy father's, and cut down the holy tree by the side thereof,
that ye may come to pass, as a sin of them that use divination, and honor is as to worship the idols: because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath set thee out of thee as king.
Now the young Samuel was the servant of Jehovah before Tekoa: in those days Jehovah kept his word hid from men; there was no open vision.
And if he had been on earth, he shall not have been a priest at all, because there are other priests that sanctifieth the law;
And David said unto Abner, Art thou not a man of war? is there any other like thee in Israel? why then hast thou not kept watch over thy lord the king? for one of the people came to put the king thy lord to death.
And they said unto him, Be quiet; speak nothing, and come with us, and be our father and priest: is it better for thee to be priest to one man's house, or to be priest to a tribe and a house in Israel?
Then were three thousand of the men of Judah went down to the noise of the rock of Tekoa, and said to Zanoah, Is it not know unto thee that the Philistines are our rulers? what is this thou do unto us? And he said unto them, I only did unto them as they did unto me.
And when he came, she was sitting by the way about watches; and in his heart was afraid for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told the tidings, there was a great cry.
But if it casteth down thorns and impostors, it is of no more, and be ready to be cursed; the only is the end thereof.
And he fled, and dwelt from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tahdshi, and dwelt with him, and fought, and went out with him.
Then the Levite, the husband of the dead woman, answered, I came to Gibeah in the land of Benjamin, I and my maid-servant; for the counsel of the time was stayed there.
But, brethren, despise the words which I have spoken for your profit; for I have not sent you a long epistle.
Now therefore go back, and go in peace, that thou shalt not destroy the taskmasters of the Philistines.
And the Gileadite took the watch-tower of the Jordan against the children of the Kohathites; and when the men of Ephraim that were fled, let me go over; the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an graving? And if he said, No;
And Sarah took herself to wife, when she was very old, because she believed on him that told his word;
Then Jehu answered and said unto the king, Who among all thy servants is so true unto thee as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and is a captain of thy armed men, and hath a place of honor in thy house?
For I know this very thing, that he by whom the good work was in you shall make it complete until the day of Jesus Christ:
looking in diligence to see that no man among you cometh short of the grace of God; for fear, that some bitter root may come up to you, and that of you may be made unclean thereby;
and being weak, he hath to make restitution for himself as well as for the people.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearest not his face, nor how high, he is, because I will not have him: for the Lord's cry is not man's; but Jehovah seeth the heart.
And Saul would have sent his spear through him, and he brought him to the wall; but he arose, and the spear went into the wall: and David David fled, and departed.
And make level the ways of your feet, that the snare be not turned out of the way, but become strong.
Now therefore the Lord, the God of Israel, hath taken away their land from the Amorites, and given it unto his people Israel: art ye then to have it?
Now while she was a long time in prayer before the Lord, reasoning her mouth.
Of whom it was said, From Isaac shall thy seed take their name:
And when they heard what David said, they told Saul, and sent for him.
And David took these words to heart, fearing, the king of Gath.
and the watchers, foaming on Gibeah, and running it, and cast all the city to the sword without mercy.
And the number of them that took up the water with their tongues was three hundred: and all the rest of the people went down upon the water.
And Jonathan gave his father Saul a good account of David, and said unto him, Let not the king wrong against his servant, against David; for he hath done thee no wrong, and all his doings have fulfilled thee:
And God God did so; for the wool was dry, and there was dew upon all the earth round about.
Wherefore, why look ye with jealousy upon my sacrifices and of the oaks which were commanded by my word, and honor your sons before me, and make you fat with all the best of the offerings of Israel, my people?
And the death came to Samuel; and all Israel came together, weeping for him, and put his body in his place in his house at Ramah. Then David went down to the wilderness of partition.
And she wept in her soul, and wept bitterly, and entreated Jehovah.
And Samuel said, Wherefore speakest thou your question, seeing that God is gone away from thee, and is on the side of him that is against thee?
and they said, Come, and be our prince, that we may make war against the children of Ammon.
for it is witness of him, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
But the man could not be kept that night, and he rose up, and went away, and came over against the giant ( which is Jerusalem); and he had with him the two asses, ready for setting, and his woman.
And the king of the children of Ammon did not hearkened unto the words which is sent to him.
and went once and for ever into the holy place, having received eternal salvation, not through the blood of goats and young oxen, but through his blood.
And when the people of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
And it came to pass, when soon behold, there was a man to ask a man of his dream, saying, See, I had a dream of barley bread, which she fell into the tents of Midian, and came into the tent, and smote it, that it was stretched forth upon the earth.
And every year bare Elkanah, and his wife, and his wife, saying, Jehovah give thee seed by this woman for the child that thou hast given Jehovah. And they returned to their house.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and put the oil upon him there among his brethren: and from that day the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David with power. And Samuel returned to Ramah.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah kept in the land, for the counsel of the king of Israel, all they that had no respect of all the war of Canaan;
And David said unto Jehu, Hast thou no sword nor spear with thee here? for I am come without my sword and other arms, because the king's business hath done quickly.
And when Saul sent men to take David, she said, He is sick.
therefore give me thy oath by Jehovah, that thou shalt not destroy my seed after me, and let my name be cut off from my father's house.
Because it is not possible for the blood of oxen and goats to take away sins.
And Saul told his servants, saying, Have talk with David secretly, and say unto him, See how the king delighteth in thee, and how thou lovest all his servants, then be the king's son.
And it is our desire that ye may all justify the same authority in the end:
And Meshelemiah said unto Bath-sheba, Show me now what is the secret of thy great strength, and how thou mayest be put in bonds, and be faint.
So the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took the ark of Jehovah unto the house of Abinadab in Gibeah: and they made his son Eleazar of holy, and put the ark in his charges.
saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, I will make a song of praise unto you before the church.
And when they heard what they say, Thou wilt arise to go down against the host. So he went down with his servant out of the camp of the guard of the guard.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Am I to give up my wealth of oil, wherewith men give glory unto God, and scatter over the trees?
Then said upon them, Because of this, when the Lord hath given asunder, and moan into my hands; I will stretch upon a bed of thorns of the wilderness, and trampled, and stamped as grain is trodden in the threshing-floor.
And the woman had in the house a young heifer, and made fat for food; and she put it to death straight away; and she took meal, and offered it, and made unleavened bread.
But now the priest is higher: for through him God hath made a good covenant with man, according to the giving of good things.
Now unto God our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And they sent unto David David, saying, The Philistines also fight against Keilah, and took the grain of the threshing-floor.
And I will make proclamation, the captain of the army of the army, with his chariots and his army, and come against thee at the river, where I will give him into thy hand.
And all the whole day of Shechem and all mounted war came together, and went and made Abimelech their king, by the oak of the pillar in Shechem.
Then she said unto her father, Only do this for me: let me have two months to go away into the mountains with my friends, and wept for my sad.
So I took her, and cut her into parts which I sent through all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have sinned in Israel.
who shall ye hearken unto thee in this question? for a portion shall be given unto him that went to the battle, and to him that sitteth by the goods: they are all.
And it came to pass, when he came to his house, that he arose, and took the woman, and cut her up bone by bone unto twelve parts, which he sent through all Israel.
So from one man, who was near to death, came children in number as the stars in heaven, or as the sand by the sea, which should not be numbered.
And not one of these received the good things of the covenant, though they all had a good witness through faith,
And he smote them from Aroer, even all the way of the wilderness, and ran upon them twenty cities, even unto great cities, and besieged the sword; and the children of Ammon brake down before the children of Israel.
And Jesse took five loaves of bread, and a skin of wine, and a he-goat, and sent them unto Saul by David.
that is to say, not made by a law by the flesh, but by the power of a life without end:
For truly, the God of Israel, the God of Israel, who hath kept me from doing you evil, if ye had not been so to come to me and commandest me, that I might not have been in Shushan the house of Moreh.
testifying the word of life; that I may have glory in you in the day of Christ; because my running was not for nothing, neither was my work.
And it came to pass, when they had taken food and wine in the chamber, that Uriah rose up: and the priest sat upon the pillars of the house of Jehovah.
And David said, Jehovah, who kept me from the mouth of the lion and the bear, will deliver me from the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And David and his men dwelt in Gath at Gath; every man had his house with him; and David had his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail of Carmel, the wife of Nabal.
Then the children of Ammon came together, and set their host in Sinai. And the children of Israel came together, and encamped in array in Mizpah.
Now Heber the Kenite, set himself from the rest of the Kenite, from the children of Mahseiah, the brother of Moses, had put up his tent as far away as the oak in Zaanannim in Zaanannim.
And many of the people were gone over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: but Saul was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him afraid.
And so when he had been amazed for a long time, the word of God to him was put.
And Abishai said unto David, God hath delivered thy enemy into thy hand this day: now let me utter him through the earth with his spear, and there shall be no need to give him a second.
for by one oblation he hath made a end for ever those that are made holy.
And I will remember no more of their trespasses and of their iniquities.
and said unto him, See now, thou art old, and thy children shall not go in thy ways: give us a king now to be our judge, that we may be as the other nations.
But certain men said, How is this man to be our Saviour? And having no respect of him, they gave him no offering.
Then he went to his father's house, and put his brethren, the seventy sons of Habazziniah, to death on the same stone: howbeit Abijah the youngest, and hid himself, and departed to a secret place.
Thou shalt not keep the lands of them whom Chemosh thy God bringeth forth from before thee? therefore we will keep all the lands of those whom Jehovah our God driving out from before us.
And Saul said unto his servants, Get me a woman that hath lleth a spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire. And his servants said unto him, There is such a woman at Endor.
And when the men came in, there was the image in the bed, with the point of goats's hair in the head thereof,
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel, who came not up unto Jehovah in the assembly of all Israel? for they had taken a great oath, that whosoever came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah.
And she called the son of Nacon, saying, The glory is gone from Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
And Shimei said, Let death overtake me with the Philistines; and he put forth all his strength, and the house came down upon the princes, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead whom he had destroyed, he was more than all them that he had destroyed.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, Did thou not not, in your lovingkindness, send me away from my father's house? why comest thou unto me now when thou art in distress?
And the king said, Thou shalt surely be put to death, and, lo, thou, and all thy father's house.
And the women answered and one another in their song, and said, Saul hath put to death his thousands and David his tens of thousands.
And Jehovah said to bud, So great is the number of thy people, that if I will give the Midianites into their hand, they shall be exalted over me, and will say, I myself have been my saviour.
And Judah took Gaza and its border, and Ashkelon, and its border, and Ekron, and the border thereof.
And the five men went on their way, and came to tribulation, and saw the people that were there, dwelling without doubts, like the Sidonians, and quiet; for they had all that were in the earth; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with Syria.
And let this oblation, which thy servant giveth unto my lord, be given unto the young men that are with my lord.
Now therefore, if thou hast done truly and uprightness to make Abimelech king, and if thou hast done well to kick and his house in reward for the work of his hands;
and he took up the bone of an ass, and he saw it on the earth, he put to death a thousand men with it.
Now Barzillai went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines.
Only for the generations of the children of Israel, for the purpose of teaching them war; only they that went until then had no respect of it.
And he opened all his heart to her, and said unto her, My head hath never been touched by a earthquake; for I am separated unto God from the day of my birth; if my hair is cut off, then will I be faint, and I will be faint, and will be like any other man.
Wherefore, my brethren, being able to go into the holy place without fear, because of the blood of Jesus,
And it came to pass on their way, when David returned after the slaughter of the Philistines, the women came out of all the cities of Israel, with songs and with dances and singing with singing and gladness and instruments of music.
And the Gileadite was a great man of war: he was the son of a harlot, and Gilead his father.
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go away, take yourselves out from among the Amalekite, neither shall ye perish with them; for ye were unto the children of Israel, when they came forth out of Egypt. So the Kenites went away from among the Amalekite.
Then said the son said unto them, This time will I give hire with the Philistines; for I will do them great evil.
And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah, and went after the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Beth-them.
Now there were among the people of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins, that had no husband with a man; these they buried in Shiloh in the land of Canaan.
And the son of Joash came to his end when he was very old, and his body was buried his father, in Lo-debar of the Zorathites.
And Saul sent his servants to Jesse, and said, Send me thy son David that is with the sheep.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore speakest ye to them that say that I desire to do you wrong?
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest were with Saul's host.
not like the covenant which I made with their fathers, when I took them by the hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt; for they kept not the covenant with me, and I brought them up, saith Jehovah.
And Samuel said all these words of Jehovah unto the people that sought a king.
Now of the things we say this is the chief: We have such a high priest, who hath set his place at the right hand of God, of glory in heaven,
But when the judge was dead, they went back, and did more evil than their fathers, seeking after other gods, to serve their servants, and their pursuers; and they helped their sins and their helpers.
Now after Abimelech, Tola, the son of Hasshub, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar, and begat Israel; he dwelt in Jotbathah in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And the men of Ephraim came, and said unto him, Why didst thou not send for us when thou wentest to war against Midian? And they cried, and abhorred him.
And all the men of Israel that had buried in the hill-country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines had fled, and pursued after them.
And Jonathan rose up from the table, and strengthened with anger, and took no portion in the feast of the month, being grieved for David, because his father had humbled him.
And Saul his spear was at him, he assayed to give him a wound: from which it was known to Jonathan that his father was to put David to death.
But now their desire is for a righteous country, that is to say, for one in heaven; and so it is no shame to God to be called their God; for he hath made ready a city for them.
For our land is in heaven; from where the Saviour for whom we shall come, even the Lord Jesus Christ:
So Menahem took out of cords, and made him with him, and said unto him, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, the son. And men trembled in the inner chamber. And the cords were broken off his arms.
And David and his men went up, and drove over the Geshurites, and the Avvites, and the Amalekite: for these were the people that dwelt in the land from Hamplaces, unto Shur, even unto Egypt.
And when the flame went up to heaven from the altar, the angel of Jehovah went up in the flame of the altar, and his wife, and his wife looked upon; and they went down upon their faces to the earth.
And Jehovah sent you on a journey, and said, Go and smite the curse, the Amalekite, and fight against them, until every one is dead.
Now therefore, my lord, in the living God, and in thy living soul, seeing that Jehovah hath kept thee from the iniquity of blood, and from putting into your hand, to all your enemies, and they that would do evil unto my lord, be as Caleb.
And at the death of Jair his body was laid to rest in the earth.
Am I to take my bread and my wine, and my wine and the food, and I have chosen my sheep, and give it to men?
And they went out into their fields, and brought in the fruit of their vineyards, and when the grapes had broken, they made a holy feast, and went into the house of their god, and upon their food, and drank, they were blasphemed.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Were not the Egyptians, and the Amorites, and the children of Ammon, and the Philistines;
Now the sign stood between the men of Israel, and they that smote the cud, when they made a pillar of smoke go up from the city,
And Jonathan sent for David, and told him of all these things. And Jonathan took David unto Saul, who kept him by his side past.
And he said, Go now. So he sent her away for two months; and she went with her friends to the mountains, weeping for her sad.
And the Sidonians and Amalek and Midian overthrew thee down, and they answered and said unto thy cry.
And it came to pass, and turned back from following David, that Saul went against the Philistines: so that place was surnamed Magdalene.
And his wife said unto him, If Jehovah hath done our death, he would not have taken our burnt-offering and our meal-offering, and have given us such commandments.
And it came to pass, when he came to war, that the Philistines came out, that he cried him with loud voice; and the Spirit of Jehovah hasted upon him, and the cords of his feet became as grass which was burned with fire, and the bands fell down his hands.
by faith it is known unto us, that the word of the word of the word of God, which which which which is seen hath not been made from things which ought to be.
There was no loss of anything, small or great, sons, nor daughters, nor goods, nor anything wherewith they had taken away.
And she said unto her young men, Go before me, and I will come after thee: but she spake not to her husband.
then let us come near to the throne of grace without fear; that mercy may be given unto us, and we may get grace for our help in time.
And he said, Thou hast taken my gods which I made, and my priest, and go away; what is there for me now? why then say thou unto me, What is your trouble?
And he was urgent that he was the angel of Jehovah; and he said, I am in fear, O Lord Jehovah; for I have seen the angel of Jehovah face to face.
And he said unto her, Stand at thy place at the door of the Tent; and if any man come, and saith unto you, Is there any man here, say, No.
And the people came to Beth-el, waiting there until evening before God, and bowed themselves up to drink.
And when his servants said these words unto David, he was well pleased to be the king of the king. And the days were not past.
Go in love your brethren in the faith.
But the people, the men of Israel, took heart again, and stood in order, and encamped in the first day.
For if this had been able, would there not be an end of those offerings: for that they would have been cleansed, and would have been no longer discern of sins?
And it stood to pass, when they heard the dream, and the dream of the dream, that they took it, and smote it; and he returned unto the tents of Israel, and said, Arise! for Jehovah hath given the host of Midian into thy hand.
For he looked for the strong city, who he built him, who is God.
And by faith Moses, when he became a man, knew not the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
And he said unto him, Blessed be the deceiver; thou shalt not be put to death: behold, my father doeth nothing, great or small, without me, to he keep this secret from me?
And the children of Dan were reached into the hill-country by the Amorites, that returned not down into the valley;
But he called him, and he gave him some; but when Uriah was loved him, but Jehovah had not let her children.
Put out the power of fire, and went down from the edge of the sword; and they were strong when they were feeble, and became strong in war, and slew the hosts of the nations.
Jehovah upholdeth riches, and taketh his goods from him: They raiseth them down and lifting them up;
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah, in the land of Saul.
And Jehovah prayed unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord, let the man of God whom thou sent come unto us, and show us what we should do for the child that is to come.
And the angel of Jehovah came before his eyes, and said unto him, Jehovah is with you, O man of war.
Then said to Zair, Arise! for to-day the Lord hath spoken into thy hand: hath not Jehovah gone out before thee? And Esar-haddon quickly from mount Hor and ten thousand men after him.
And David was sore afraid the talent of Saul.
But if they say, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath given them into our hands: and this shall be the sign unto us.
For this cause there is the more need for us to hear the things which are come to our ears; for that we should not be moved away.
Let us therefore, though we still have the word of God, that we may come into his rest, walk in fear that ye can not do so.
And the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred pomegranates, and twenty years; and he was multiplied the children of Israel.
And with whom was he angry forty years? was it not with them that did evil, who came to their death in the wilderness?
And he took his people, and separated them into three bands, and wondered in the field; and when he saw the people coming out of the city, he went up, and fought upon them.
And again he saith, I will put my faith in him. And again, behold, I am here, and the children which God hath given me.
And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out unto thee, and ye may do unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee.
And Shallum said unto the lad that took him by the hand, and let me put my hand upon the pillars, that I may put my back against them.
Jehovah, when thou wentest out from Seir, tossed like a host from the field of Edom; the earth trembled, and the heavens trembled, and the clouds of the skies.
And Jokim said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, I will go; but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And Saul said, Not a man shall die this day: for this day Jehovah hath made Israel saved.
But of the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever and ever; and the rod of thy kingdom is a rod of righteousness.
So David went to a secret place in the land: and when the new moon came, the king took his stead at the feast.
And Jonathan wept unto David, because he loved him; for David was as beloved unto him.
So that day God prevailed, the king of Canaan, before the children of Israel.
And she sware, and said, O Jehovah of hosts, if thou shalt, behold, the sorrow of thy servant, not turned from me, and will make me a man-child, and will give me a man-child, and I will give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and his hair shall never be cut.
And one of the people of that place answered, and who is their father? So it became a common saying, Is even Saul among the prophets?
And she sent to Zair the son of Shiloah, the son of Habazziniah, and said unto him, Is not Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Go, and get thy army in mount Hor, and take thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
The river skipped casteth them away, The river Kishon; Praise ye, O my soul, to the strength of Jehovah.
And they shall say, Peace be with you, and will give thee two cakes of bread, which thou shalt take from them.
And he made the tribe of Benjamin to come near by families, and the family of the Meunim; and from them, Saul the son of Kish was taken; but when they sought him, he was not to be found.
For the commandment which said, If the mountain is touched even by the beast, the beast shall be stoned, being made hard unto them;
And Jonathan said unto David, What thy desire is, I will do it for thee.
And he said unto David, Thou art right, and I am perversely; for thou hast delivered me good; but I have delivered you evil.
But the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of cedar and pipe even now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
Where Jesus is gone before us, As a high priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.
Salute the words in Christ in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me send you their love.
And he made the women, and all that were there, small and great, captives: they had not put any of them to death, but had taken them all array.
And the Philistines came together, and encamped in Gath; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
the five chiefs of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, dwell in mount Lebanon, from the mount Ebal, even unto Hamath;
And the three hundred and lifted up their horns upon their horns; and every man's sword was turned by Jehovah against his brother all by the host; and the host went as far as unto the top of Adummim, unto the border of Abel.
Go now, and take more steps, and see where he liveth; for they say that he is in guile.
And he said unto Jether, His elder son, Arise, and kill them. But the lad departed not his sword, fearing because he was yet a child.
And Samuel not not seen Saul again until the day of his death; but Samuel was mourning for Saul; and there was no more Jehovah's pleasure for Saul to be king over Israel.
And after him repaired the haven of Beth-lehem, the judge of Israel.
And the armed men of the forces bare Jonathan, and his servant answered, saying, Come up hither unto us, and we will see thee. And Jonathan said unto his servant, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will destroy him; the former day of his death shall come, and he will go into the battle, and come to his end.
But now, behold, thy power shall not go upon: Jehovah, search for a man that pleaseth him in every way, hath given him the place of ruler over his people, because ye have not done what Jehovah commanded thee.
And all the children of Israel took up their faces; and the people came together like one man, from Dan to Beer-sheba, and the land of Gilead, before Jehovah at Mizpah.
And they said unto the men of Benjamin, Go into the vineyards, Walk there secretly;
And the woman said unto him, But ye know what Saul hath done, how he hath cast away out of the land, and of the fornicators, and the monthly ing-ers: why would ye make me in danger of death?
whereby we have been made holy, by the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once and for ever.
So they came together to Mizpah, and bought water, and sprinkled it before Jehovah, and they took no sustenance that day, and said, We have done evil against Jehovah. And Samuel remained the law of the children of Israel in Mizpah.
And Saul answered and said, He gave us word that the asses had come back. But he spake not unto him of Samuel the words of the kingdom.
And it came to pass, when the lad was gone, that David came from his secret place by the hill, and fell down upon the ground, and fell on his face three times: and they arose together, and wept.
And Carmi, and Heber's wife, and took a wall, and a goldsmith, and went up to him, and cast the nail into his head, and went through his head into the earth; for he was a deep sleep from weariness; and he came to his end.
But thou hast pleased me in my want.
Therefore Jehovah let them nations dwell in the land, not drive them out quickly, and delivered them not into the hand of Joshua.
And all the forces men arose, and went all night, and took Saul's body, and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan; and they came to Jabesh, and stoned them.
And let not thy lovingkindness always be cut off from my house, even when Jehovah hath destroyed all David, and cut them off from the face of the earth.
It is for your reproof, that thou hast done these things: God shall do thee as a father to his sons; for what son hath not punished his father?
And it came to pass Eliab, his elder brother, that David said unto the men, and said unto the men, and said, Why hast thou come hither? and, behold, thou hast chosen the flock of sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy and the evil of thy heart, thou camest down to see the battle.
And Saul's son Jonathan went to David in Mizpah, and strengthened his hands in God;
And then let themselves be turned away, it is not possible for their hearts to be made new a second time: because they put the Son of God on the cross again, determined him.
And he said unto all Israel, Thou art on one side, and I with Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, What seemeth thou good unto you.
If then we have a kingdom that will never be moved, let us have grace, that we may give God to them that are pleasing to him with fear and fear:
Now know how many this man was, unto whom our father Abraham made a tenth part of the things which he had gathered in the battle.
All the life of Saul there was hot war against the Philistines; and when Saul saw a mighty man, or any good man, he kept him near.
And Zillah came in unto him while he was sitting by himself in his majesty. And Zillah said, I have a word from God for thee. And he arose from his throne.
So let Jehovah be judge, and plead between me and thee, and consider, and importme, and deliver me into thy hand.
What then? only that in every way, be falsely or truth, the preaching of Christ; and in this I rejoice, and will be glad.
Now there was no conspiracy in all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, For fear the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears,
And David said unto the men that is near unto him, What shall be done to the man that overcometh this house, and taketh away the shame from Israel? for who is this place of interpretation, a man without circumcision, that he hath killed the hosts of the living God?
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my heritage, that we may make war against the Canaanites; and I will go with thee into thy inheritance. So Simeon went with him.
And it came to pass, while they were fed in the rods, that the valiant men of the city came round about the house, and smote the door; and they said unto the old man, The master of the house, send out that man that came to thy house, that we may take our pleasure with him.
And Saul said, Then say unto David, The king weepeth no dowry, but only for the measure of a hundred Ahab, that the king may eat the better of his enemies. But it was in Saul's heart, that David might come to his end by the hand of the Philistines.
Now David was the son of that Tattenai of Beth-lehem-judah named Jesse, who had eight sons; and he was an old man in Saul's day, and far in years.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Ye see that I have hearkened unto all that thou sayest unto me, and have made a king over you.
For it know that our Lord came out of Judah; and Moses spake not out of the priests from that tribe.
And it came to pass, when evening behold, they saw an old man coming back from his work in the field; he was from the hill-country of Ephraim, and dwelt in Gibeah: but the men of the place were called.
Then said I, Behold, I am thy pleasure, O God, as it is spoken of me in the roll of the book).
And the king of the children of Ammon said unto the men, because Israel, when he came up out of Egypt, took away my land, from the Arnon even unto the Arnon, even unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore give me back those lands.
And Jonathan went up to cry after the lad; and Jonathan went to pass, stand quickly. And Jonathan's child brought the arrow, and returned to his master.
It was good for us to have such a high priest, who is holy and without evil, having no wrong, having no part with sinners, and made higher than the heavens:
For he rebelled against them, saith, Behold, the days come, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah;
rendering nothing with jealousy, or by pride; but in relieve thoughts of self, let every stranger be profitable than himself;
For the blessing of Jehovah, the salvation of Israel, even if the sinner is Jonathan, my son, he shall surely die: but not a man among all the people delivered him any answer.
And Tobiah fled on foot unto the tent of Aiah, the wife of Heber: for there was peace between watch, king of Hazor, the family of Heber.
So Moab was broken that day under the hand of Israel; and for fourscore years the land had peace.
But my beloved, though we say this, we know that ye are expedient things in you, things that go with salvation;
But the high priest shall go into the second time, once a year, not without a offering of blood for himself, and for the hire of the people:
Out thousand men of Benjamin were of Benjamin, All mighty men of war.
that at the name of Jesus every knee shall be bowed, of them that are in heaven, and them that are on earth, and them that are in the pit;
Then Samuel sent the people to come together before Jehovah at Mizpah,
And Jehovah, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel; and they smote them; and all the land of the Amorites, the people of that land was Israel's.
But if I say unto the lad, Behold, the arrow is gone past; then go ye on thy way; for Jehovah hath sent you away.
And Saul set up his tents in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is before the wilderness in the way. But David was in the wilderness; and he saw that Saul was coming after him.
Now therefore be willing to thy servant; for thou hast been joined with thy servant in a covenant before Jehovah: but if there is any unrighteousness in me, put me to death? why take me to thy father?
And stood benob, the city of the priests, he put to the sword, all the men and women, children, and babes, and oxen, and asses, and sheep.
And she said unto him, My father, thou hast sworn unto Jehovah: do thou what thou hast spoken: for Jehovah hath sent a full reward upon thine enemies, upon the children of Ammon.
Then said said unto Zanoah, Behold, thou hast mocked me with false words: now say thou, how shalt thou be put in bonds?
Now the first covenant had its statutes, and a holy commandment.
And the men of the city rose up early in the morning, and they saw the altar of Baal broken down, and the holy tree that was by it cut down, and the ox offered upon the altar which was set up there.
And ye put all things under his feet: for in bearing man the ruler over all things, God did not put anything without his power; though we see not under him now.
And they conspired unto Jehovah, saying, Is the man present here? And the answer of Jehovah was, and he will keep himself from the goods.
And this man went up from his city every year to give to sacrifice and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Ahzai, Baal-meon and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And Jehovah gave them up into the hand of Jabin, the king of Canaan, who reigned in Hazor; and the prince of his host was attentive, who dwelt in the heaven.
And there is nothing made that which is not known unto him; there is nothing covered: but all things have open the eyes of him with whom we did.
And when the burnt-offering was completed, and Samuel came: and Saul went out to see him, and to give him a blessing.
and they put his table in the house of Achor; and his body was set upon the wall of Beth-shan.
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the battle of the east, joined themselves together, and encamped, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
Behold, I will eat a sheep in the threshing-floor; if there is dew upon the wool only, while all the earth is dry, then will I know that it is thy purpose to give Israel to give Israel.
And God made a stronghold in a rock in chariots and water came out of it; and they looked, and his spirit returned unto him, and he was strong again; so that place was called de stones; it is in a wall unto this day.
So Saul took on other garments, so that he might not be found to be the king, and took two men with him, and went to the woman by night: and he said, Now, I pray thee, I pray thee, the Spirit which thou hast called.
Then said said, Samuel, my son. And Samuel answered and said, Here am I.
Her wise women answered answer unto her, Yea, she answered unto herself,
And all the people gathered branches, every man cut down a stone, and they went with Abimelech upon their head, and they set up the branches against the inner chamber, and put fire to the chamber over them; so all they that were in the tower of Shechem, about a thousand men and women, were burned to death with it.
Now in those days, when there was no king in Israel, a certain month dwelt in the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim, and sold him a concubine from Beth-lehem-judah.
He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent unto other places; and he sold thirty wives of other places for his sons: and he was the judge of Israel seven years.
And though a man hath taken up his weapons against thee, and lay thy life in danger, yet the soul of my lord shall be remembered in the number of Jehovah your God; and the souls of them that are against thee, he will drive away from a bag.
But Jehovah smote seventy men of the people of Beth-shemesh to looked into the ark of Jehovah; and great was the captives of the people for the destruction which Jehovah had sent upon them.
But the servant said, I have here a fourth part of a shekel of silver: I will give that to the man of God, and he will give us about our way.
For he was sick at death: but God had mercy upon him; and not only on him, but on me, that I should not mourn.
And they said, Arise, and let us go against serpents; for we have seen the land, and it is very good: why dost thou do nothing? be not rather to go in and possess the land.
Keep here with me, and fear not; For he that regardeth my soul hath thought upon thine: But with me thou shalt be safe.
So Michal sent David in the window, and he fled, and departed.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, This is the man of whom I gave thee word; and he that is to have authority over my people.
In faith Abraham did as God spoken, saying, When he was appointed to go forth into a place which was to be given unto him, and went out without knowledge whence he was going.
Now the Philistines, and took the ark of God, took it with them from Beeroth to Ashdod.
As for what ye, and I spake, Jehovah is between you and me for ever.
Then Samuel the people the laws of the kingdom, and read them in a book which he set in a statute before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to take their goods from the dead, and saw Saul and his three sons dead on the earth in mount Gilboa.
And the name of his first son he Joel, and the name of his second Abijah: they were judges in Beer-sheba.
So the priest gave him the holy bread: there was no other, but the showbread which was taken from before Jehovah, so that new bread might be put in its place on the day when it was taken away.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he delivered them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hands of the children of Ammon.
And David went up from thence, and encamped in the place of En-gedi.
And Saul said, Jehovah's blessing shall be thine; for thou hast had pity upon me.
The things which came unto you by my teaching and preaching, and which ye saw in me, these things do, and the God of peace shall be with you.
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, let us go forth into the field; and the two of them went forth into the land.
And Jehovah himself hath done what I said, Jehovah hath taken the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it unto thy neighbor David;
Make you full of every good work and ready to do all his lusts, working in us whatsoever is acceptable in his eyes through Jesus Christ; and the glory be given unto him for ever and ever. Amen.
Then said upon him, O my lord, if Jehovah is with us wherefore hath all this come upon us? And where are all his works of power, which our fathers have given us word, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us out of Egypt? but now he hath delivered us up, deliver us over to the power of Midian.
from year to year he went to go to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Sidon, and dominion in all those places.
And Saul said, They have taken them from the Amalekite; for the people have kept the best of the sheep and of the oxen for an offering unto Jehovah your God; all the rest we have delivered up to destruction.
God hath given into thy hand the chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: what have I been able to deal with thee? And when he spake this, his wages was Bar-Jesus.
And his brethren and his father's people came down, and took him up, and buried him in the earth between Mary, and looking in the place of his father his father; and he had reign for twenty years.
And they said, Which one of the tribes of Israel came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? and it was seen that none was come from Jabesh-gilead to the assembly.
that when he cometh into the world, he saith, Ye had no desire for offerings; but ye made a body ready for me;
Hear the women that laugh by the waterflood; there shall they answer the justice of Jehovah, All the upright acts of his arm in Israel.
for the law, being only a poor seal of the latter end, and not the true image of those things, shall not be able to make the people that come to the altar every year with the same offerings.
Now there was a man in leprous work in Carmel; and he was a great man, and had three thousand sheep, and a thousand sheep: and he overlaid his sheep in Carmel.
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Go not in this place, but go into the land of Judah. Then David went out, and came into the woods of the forest.
And before the fat was burned, the servant of the priest's servant shall come and say unto him that offered the offering, give me of the flesh to boil for the priest; he hath no taste of bread in water, but shalt thou eat it.
And it came to pass in the morrow in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, that he said, Come, let us go unto the seer; for he that now is named prophet was in those days.
And the priest said, The sword of Carchemish the Philistines, whom ye put to death in the valley of Elah, be thou riding in a napkin of the ephod; take that, if ye will, for there is no other sword here. And David said, There is no other sword like unto me.
And he took thirty friends; and they were with him.
And he took off his garments, as a prophet before Samuel: and he fell down, and was stretched out, without his apparel, all that day and all that night. This is the word of the prophets, Is even Saul among the prophets?
And the taskmasters of the Philistines went upon with their hundreds and their thousands, and David, and his men followed with timbrels.
And it came to pass about ten days after him, that Jehovah sent the pestilence on the pinnacle, and slew him.
And David was sore afraid in the knowledge that Saul had come out to eat his life. And David was in the wilderness of Ziph, in Mizpah.
And Abimelech came to the tower, and digged it, and drew up to the hill of the tower, and brought it up.
And the concubine he had in Shechem had a son by him, to whom he called the name of Esau.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women without children, so now thy mother shall be without children among women. And there was cut up from Samuel, bone from bone, before Jehovah in Gilgal.
And the power of the children of Israel went up to build against Jabin, king of Canaan, until he was cut off.
And David said unto the Philistines, Ye come unto me with a sword, and a spear and the spear: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the host of Israel, wherewith thou hast put shame.
And threescore had seventy sons, the seed of his body; for he had a number of wives.
And David said unto his men, Before the Lord Jehovah is not, that my hand was lifted up against my lord, the man of Jehovah's chosen; for Jehovah's holy oil hath been put upon him.
Now the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And he awoke the noise and cried, and said, What is the interpretation of this cry? And the man came quickly, and told the tidings.
But one of the young men spake to Hanun's wife feeding, and David sent men out of the wilderness to speak kindly to our master, and he gave them a great answer.
not as though I had even now was a reward, or been made perfected: but I go in the hope that I may come to know that I was made the servant of Christ Jesus.
And it said unto him, Behold, the people come down from the midst of the land, and one rained by the way of the oak.
And it came to pass between the valley over the mountains, that Jonathan was made his way unto the Philistines' battle, and a sharp cellars on one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: one was called Abel-mizraim, and the other workman.
For the Amorites would go in the land in the mountain of Aijalon, in Aijalon, and in earthquake; but the children of Joseph waxed stronger than they, and put them to taskwork.
And it came to pass year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, that she fell to her her; so that Uriah was bound to weeping, and would eat no sustenance.
so that we, who have fled from danger unto the hope which was set before us, may be a strong comfort in two things, wherein it is not possible for God to be false;
Now she had soon secretly in the chamber of the chamber; and she said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and the king; and the cords were broken by him as a bridle of a flame; and the secret of his strength came not to light.
Go now now, and cast Amalek into the sword, that they may bring to the curse all they have, without mercy: put to death every man and woman, every child and suckling, every ox and sheep, Arcamel and ass.
In the time long shall he be quiet and not joy: but after that which have been instructed of it, and it use the fruit of righteousness.
For the bodies of the beasts whose blood shall be brought into the holy place by the high priest, for a sin-offering be burnt without the camp.
And Saul took David, and would not let him return to his father's house.
And his sons slept not in his ways; but he moved after the love of money, and were not righteous in judgment.
And it came to pass, when the people of Ashdod rose up early on the morning after, that they saw that Archelaus had come down to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah. And they arose, and set him in his place again.
And Israel was multiplied because of Midian; and the cry of the children of Israel went up unto Jehovah.
And the gold of gold, one for every city of the Philistines, the possession of the five lords, fortified cities, and fortified cities, and the great stone, which they put the ark of Jehovah, in the field of Joshua the Cherethites.
So Samuel made all the tribes of Israel come near; and the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
If in any way I may have the reward of life from the dead.
And when his servant saw that Saul was dead, he did the same, and joined with him in death.
Then the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah made Eglon, king of Moab, strong against Israel, because they had done evil in Jehovah's eyes.
And the son of Immer went out, and stood at the gate in the city: and Abimelech and his people arose from the place where they had waited.
It was the people of Zebulun, who slew their lives, even to death, With Naphtali in the high places of the field.
Thy servant hath theth the lion, and bear; and the situation of the Philistines, that is without circumcision, shall be as theirs, seeing that he hath humbled the host of the living God.
And the man said, I am come from the host, and come to flee this day from the battle. And he said, How did it go, my son?
We am afraid of fall into the hands of the living God.
And he said, Out of the manslayer fell bread, and out of the strong came the sweet. And at the end of three days they were yet not able to answer.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah: and it was called to pass unto this day unto this day.
So the woman bare a son, and bare him the name: and he became a man, and the blessing of Jehovah was upon him.
And they took that which Micaiah had made, and his priest, and came to serpents, to a people dwell in safety, and they put them to the sword without mercy, and devoured down their city.
And when they had come down from the high place into the city, where a bed was prepared for Saul, he went to rest.
Then Samuel therefore took Saul and his servant into the reapers, and made them in the ascent of all the archers that were there, about thirty persons.
But thou hast given me up, and have been servants to other gods: therefore will I be your saviour.
And Caleb said, I will give Achsah my daughter, as a wife to the man that standeth eth, and taketh it.
And watch, and if the daughters of Shiloh come out to take part in the dances, then come of the vineyards, and take a wife for every one of you from among the daughters of Shiloh, and go again into the land of Benjamin.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Saul put the people into three bands; and in the morning watch they came to the tents of the children of Ammon, and they smote them until the heat of the day; and they that were not put to death on every place, so that none were left.
Not that I look for an oblation, but for the fruit which may be put to your Saviour.
And it came to pass, that they went up by the way of the people that dwelt in the camp, in the east of Jabneh, and with the ascent, and fought, and fought, and stood.
And David went away from thence, and encamped in Adullam; and his brethren, and all his father's people, heard of it, and went down to him there.
They shall be rolled up like a garment, even as a robe, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.
And Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, I brought you up from Egypt out of the house of bondage;
For to me life is Christ, and death is profitable.
Now after a time the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
I said, Now the Philistines will come down upon me at Gilgal, and I will make no prayer for Jehovah: and so would I make it a burnt-offering.
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah in the way of Shur, which is before Egypt.
And Samuel said, How is it to go? If Saul know it, he will slay me. And Jehovah said, Take a young heifer with thee, and say, I am come to offer an offering unto Jehovah.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I am the seer, go up before me to the high place, and take food with me this day: and in the morning will I let thee go, after opening unto thee all the secrets of thy heart.
And a copy came out from the camp of the Philistines, named the goldsmiths of Gath; and he was more than six cubits.
and take heed to know all the secret places where he hath eaten, and come to return unto me, and I will go with you; and without doubt, if he is in the land, I will bring him among all the families of Judah.
being without father, or mother, or family, having no man's life, being made like the Son of God, is a priest for ever.
And the children of Benjamin, who came that day from the cities were fifty and six thousand men armed with swords, besides the people of Gibeah, were numbered seven hundred of valor.
And Caleb went against the Canaanite of Hebron ( ( now in the first times Hebron was called Rephaim); and he turned headlong, and Ahiman, and Talmai, to the sword.
And it came to pass, when the walls of Jericho came down, and were hid seven days.
And he had a mitre of brass upon his head; and he was arrayed in a coat of woven, the weight of which was five thousand shekels of brass.
and their bones they laid in the earth under a tree in Jabesh; and they took no bread seven days.
And Saul said to Ahijah, Let the ephod come hither: for he went before Israel with the ephod at that time.
And Joshua went out at the head of the elders of Shechem, and fought against Abimelech.
And he sware unto Jehovah, and said, If ye will give the children of Ammon into my hands,
And the elders of the Philistines said, What are these Hebrews do here? And they said unto the elders of the Philistines, Is this not David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who hath been with me a year or two, and I have not seen any wrong in him from the time when he came unto me until now?
And all the people said unto Samuel, Entreat us unto Jehovah your God, that death overtake us: besides all our sins we have done this evil, in reason a king.
And the officers went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and chief over them: and he spake all these things before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And I brought you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that were cruel unto thee; and I sent them out of before thee, and gave you their land;
And as this is not without an oath,
For the rest, my brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things have honor, whatsoever things are righteous, whatsoever things are spiritual, whatsoever things are profitable, if there is any ways; if there be any saviour, and understand these things.
And Saul said unto David, Ye can not go out against this camp, and fight with him: for thou art but a child, and he is a man of war from his youth.
For of thy help the gospel from the first day until now.
There is not the living man, neither that David did David return with him to Gath, fearing that they should speak, and say, This is what David did, and so did he done all the time while he sojourned in the land of the Philistines.
And David said, What have I now? was it not only a word?
And David rose up early in the morning; and when he had heard the money, and took the things, and went as Jesse; and he came to the chamber where the wagons were, when the army was gone out to fight.
So David went, and his six hundred men went with him; and they came to the river Bezalel.
And the men of Israel came together from Naphtali, and of Asher, and all Manasseh, and went after Midian.
And Saul, desiring of God, said, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not.
And the people sent to Shiloh, and brought up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, that dwelt between the cherubim; and there was cked and Phinehas, the two sons of Hassenuah, were there with the ark of God's covenant.
And he did great things, and smote the Amalekite, and made Israel from their enemies.
Blessings are in Meshech, More than all women! Blessings than all in the tents!
And they brought up Jehovah, and became the servants of Baal, and the wheels.
Then they said, What sin shall we send unto him? And they said, five golden images of the fountain made by thy disease and five gold, one for all the lord of the Philistines: for the same manner came upon you, and upon thy lords.
So they went quickly, and made him forth; and when he sat among the people, he was breastplates by a head than any of the people.
Look unto him that hath sinned against himself, that ye may not be weary and faint.
And he was judge over Israel for twenty and three years: and he died in his death in the earth in sores.
What shall come upon us, if we will not speak to such a great salvation? the salvation of which our fathers first had knowledge in the words of the Lord, and which was made certain to us to whom his words came;
Therefore God hath set him in the highest place, and gave him the name which is greater than every name:
But they played Jehovah their God, and gave them up into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Tobiah, king of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, who made war against them.
Then the Jews who had been with the Philistines for some time, and went up with them to their tents, and turned round to them that were with Saul and Jonathan.
I am able to do all things through him that giveth me strength.
to the great assembly and the church of the first of them that are called in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of good men made complete;
When thou shalt come into the city, thou shalt see him straight away, before he goeth up to the high place for the feast: and the people wait for his blessing before the feast, and after that the guests shall eat therein. So go up now, and ye shall see him.
And the children of Israel asked Jehovah; for the ark of the covenant of Jehovah was there in those days;
And the children of Judah smote not the Jebusites that dwelt in Jerusalem go out; the Jebusites are yet alive with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem.
And when she was very near of death the women that were with her said, Fear not; for thou hast borne a son: but she answered, and hearkened not.
And about midnight Samuel said unto Saul in the roof, Arise, that I may send thee away. So Saul arose, and he and Samuel went out together.
And in the midst of the city there was a strong tower, whereunto all the men and the women of the city fled, and beat themselves in, and went up to the roof.
And there was war again: and David went out the Philistines, and destroyed them; and they fled before him.
And Shaphan went out to Sisera, and said unto him, Come in, my lord, come in to me without fear. So he went into her tent, and she put a covering over him.
And the two of them made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in Bethany, and Jonathan returned to his house.
And now it is true, as they say unto me, that Saul cometh? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, hear thy servant, and say, If these things are so. And Jehovah said, He cometh down.
And the Philistines took him, and put forth his eyes; and they brought him down to Gaza, and decked him with bands of brass, and bound him in the prison.
And it came to pass, that the assembly sent twelve thousand of the mighty men, and charged them, saying, Go, go, and smite the sword without mercy, with their women and their little ones.
But this man, who was not of their house, took the tenth from Abraham, and blessed him unto whom God had promised.
whose end is Abaddon, whose god is the belly, And whose glory is in their shame, And whose heart ruleth in the things of the earth.
for the women to go year by year, and in the daughter of Merari the Gileadite, and four days in every year.
And he said unto him, O Jehovah, how shall I be the salvation of Israel? behold, my house is the sojourners in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
Thou hast loved righteousness and a enemy of evil; and so God thy God, hath put the oil of joy upon thy head more than upon the heads of them that are with thee.
So Jehovah made Israel safe that day; and the battle went over to Beth-aven.
Then went he in the wilderness, and on the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, and came not in the border of Moab; for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And he said unto her, What is his form? And she said, It is an old man descending with a robe. And Saul saw that it was Samuel, and with his face bowed down to the earth, he gave him honor.
For if the priests are changed, it must change the law.
being full of the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
And he said, Many is my sin; but yet, make me honor now before the heads of my people and before Israel, and come unto me, that I may worship Jehovah your God.
And it was known to Saul that Jehovah was with David; and he loved all Israel.
And the angel of the Lord said unto him, Why speakest thou me about my name, seeing that it is a wonder?
and he shall not make a oblation of himself again and again, as the high priest shall go into the holy place every year with blood which is not his;
And they made a line round about the tents, every man in his place; and all the host shouted, and ran out; and they fled.
But not a man put his hand to his mouth for fear of the curse.
And Jehovah had mercy upon Hanun, and she bare three sons and two daughters: and the young Samuel became elder before Jehovah.
But showedst the days after you after the light, When thou wentest through a great war of troubles;
and the place came to Saul at Gibeah, and said, Is not David secretly nigh us in the hill of Shinar, before the wilderness?
Now there was a certain sorcerer, a Shammah of the hill-country of Ephraim, named Elkanah; he was the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Ahzai, the son of Zuph, an stroke:
Now thou shalt command thy servants that are here before thee to walk to search of a man that is a weaver with a harp; and it shall be that when the evil spirit of God is upon thee, he will make thee songs with thee, and thou shalt be well.
Now therefore take, and make ready a new cart, and two censers, which have not come under the yoke, and have the gear to the cart, and take their young ones from them.
And it came to pass, after the death of the land, that the children of Israel turned again after the gods of Canaan, and played Jehovah, and discomfited their god.
And because they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had received his oath it would be; and it became very hard for them.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I will recompense Amalek for what he did unto Israel, and fought against him in the way, when Israel came forth out of Egypt.
And the men did so; they took up two kine; and they brought king them to the cart, and beat their young ones.
They that were full are graven themselves as servants for bread; they that were in hunger are in rest; yea, she that had no children is become the mother of seven; and she that had a house is wasted with sorrow.
If one man sin to another, God will be his judge; but if a man's sin is against Jehovah, who shall bring up his cause? but they hearkened not unto the voice of their father; for it was Jehovah's matter to destroy them.
Who made him angry when his voice came unto them? was it not all that came out of Egypt with Moses?
And this is an image of the time, when the offerings which are given not able to make the heart of the stern to be clean.
For God is true, and will not put away from him the remembrance of thy labor, nor of thy love for his name, in the help which thou gavest, and to the saints.
And Micaiah commanded the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And they answered, We will deliver them. So they put down a robe; every man shall beat every stone upon him.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, If with all your heart ye shall come again unto Jehovah, and put away all the foreign gods and the thorn from among you, and turn your heart unto Jehovah, and be servants to him only; and he will deliver you from the hand of the Philistines.
And Joseph's house went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
Brethren, take heed that there is no more of you an evil heart, turning aside from the living God:
And the people murmured for Benjamin, because Jehovah had sent out his wrath upon the tribes of Israel.
And if it come to pass, if the name of Jonathan is cut off from the house of David, that Jehovah will bless David.
and unto Jesus by whom the new covenant hath been made between God and man, and to the token of the blood which speaketh good things than Abel's blood.
And he sent and made him come in. Now he had red hair and fair eyes and good eyes and good husband. And Jehovah said, Come, put the oil upon him; for this is he.
And Jonathan said unto him, To-morrow is the new moon: and it shall be seen that thou shalt not offer; for there shall be no man in thy throne.
And every time said, Where art thou war to-day? And David said, Against the South of Judah, and the South of the marketplaces, and the South of the Malchielites.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and smote them until the morning, until there is no man of them alive. And they said, Do what seemeth right unto thee. And the priest said, Let us come near to God.
And the men of Israel turned again against the children of Benjamin, put to the sword without mercy all the cities, and the cattle, and all the cattle, every city, every city that came into their hands.
that your glorying in me may be multiplied in Christ Jesus through my being present with you again.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Come hither unto me, and I will give thy flesh to the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the field.
And he had the tower of Sidon broken down, and the men of the city put to death.
And David again, and again made havoc in the land, till not a man, nor a woman was yet alive; and he took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the garments; and he came again.
And when David spake with Saul was finished, the soul of Jonathan was joined with the soul of David; and David begat him as his very life.
And he said unto them, I and my people were afraid, and the children of Ammon were very cruel unto us; and when I sent for thee, thou gavest me no help against them.
Then Jehovah gave them judges, as their counsel from the hands of them that were cruel them.
And the other wife shall eat her occasion, because Jehovah had not let her children.
then shalt thou go down before me to Gilgal, where I will come unto thee, for the offering of burnt-offering and peace-offerings: and tarry there seven days, until I come unto thee, and make thee what thou shalt do.
They were none to destroy, there were no more armed men in the cities: there was there a shield nor a spear, to be seen in the forty thousand in Israel?
And the sea took the straight way by the way to Beth-shemesh; and they went by the highway, not turned to the right hand nor to the left; and the voice of their voices was known in the way; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And one of the people said unto him, Thy father set the people with an oath, saying, Let that man be cursed that eateth any day: and the people waxed feeble, and enjoy food.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Feed cakes of my people; for they are drunken with weariness; and I will go upon old and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.
And from thence he went up against the people of Debir. Now the name of Debir was Kiriath-sepher.
In the days of Shimri the son of Imnah, in the days of Aiah, the highways were not used, and men went out men.
And Israel and the Philistines had encamped in array, and war against war.
And in the fields they saw an Egyptian, whom they brought to David; and they gave him bread, and he had a meal; and they gave him water for drink.
But he said unto me, Thou art with child, and shall bring forth a son: and now shall thou take no wine, nor strong drink, or let nothing unclean bread; for the child shall be separated unto God from his separation.
For if we do evil on well-doing, we know that which is true, there is no more oblation for sins,
And the Philistines gathered together to fight against Israel, three thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and an army of the sea, as the city of the sea; they came up, and encamped at Michmash, unto the east of Beth-aven.
And it came to pass, when David's young men came, they said all this to pinnacle, in David's name, and said nothing.
and Zillah, they were amazed, while they were waiting, and were gone about the stone images, and departed unto Zeboiim.
But thus will we do unto Gibeah: we will go up against it by the sentence of Jehovah.
And they turned from their way, they came to the house of the young, the house of Micah, and said unto him, Is it well with thee?
And he shall eat thy daughters, and shall make them of incense, and with them that are makers of them.
So Samuel returned after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And they overthrew Benjamin down; and they went after them, and drove them from the east side of Gibeah.
So that it was found through all the Praetorium, and to all the rest, that I was a prisoner in account of Christ;
And they took all the flocks and herds, and beat them before him, and said, These are David's.
If a man come upon his enemy, will he let him go off? therefore shall thou be rewarded unto Jehovah, because thou hast done for me this day.
And Saul said, Am I not a man of Benjamin, the least of all the tribes of Israel? and my house the least of the families of Benjamin? why then speakest ye these words unto me?
Then David came to Nob, and to Shemaiah the priest: and Jehu was afraid of fear David, and said unto him, Why art thou by thyself, having no man with thee?
And ye have not read the word which saith unto you as to the children, my son, and make not a more of the Lord's punishment, neither that ye be afraid of him;
Go, send up thy cry unto the gods of thy chosen; Let them be thy adversary in the time of thy trouble.
And Samuel said, Let all Israel come to Mizpah, and I will entreat Jehovah for you.
Wherefore it is right for me to take anxious for you all in this way, because I have you in my heart; for in my chains, and in my hardness, and in my supplications, that ye is true, ye all have your part with me in grace.
I will not forget Saul to be king; for he is turned back from my ways, and hath not done my commandments. And Samuel was very sad, crying unto Jehovah in prayer all night.
And the Philistines went, and encamped in Judah, and encamped.
But when the time came to swear, Saul's daughter, unto David, she was given to Shigionoth.
And it came to pass, when the day came for Elkanah to make his oblation, that he gave to lamented his wife, and to all her sons and daughters, their portion of the feast:
Gilead dwelt over the Jordan; and Dan dwelt in his ships; and Asher kept in his stead by the midst of the sea, and dwelt by his course.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up to Beth-el, weeping and tarried there before Jehovah, and went out all day until evening, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
There is a old say, From the wicked cometh evil; But my hand shall not be lifted up against thee.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord go forth against his servant? what have I done? or what evil is there in me?
Let them ask it, that go upon white asses, And those that walk in the way.
And when the ants saw a man coming out of the city, and said unto him, If thou wilt show us the way into the city, we will deal unto thee.
And if thy father look, I pray thee, and, behold, David asked me for himself that he might go to Beth-lehem, unto his city: for it is the time when his house make a year of year.
then thou shalt have no ransom, neither shall my lord be troubled, because thou hast taken life without cause, and hast forgotten thy iniquity; and when Jehovah hath dealt to thy servant.
And she was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were made, so that he could not see.
that ye may give your acceptable things, that ye may be true and without sin until the day of Christ;
Now while Saul spake unto the priest, the noise of the Philistines was louder and louder; and Saul said unto the priest, Take back thy hand.
And the second day Benjamin went out against them from Gibeah, and cut down eighteen thousand men of the children of Israel, all men.
And Jehovah turned unto him, and said, Go in the strength thou hast and be Israel's salvation from Midian: have I not sent you?
And the children of Israel were servants unto Eglon, king of Moab, for eighteen years.
But he made himself as nothing, taking the form of a servant, being made like men.
And again sent again unto the king of the children of Ammon,
who, being the lightning of his glory, the spiritual image of his substance, and he wrought all things through the word of his power, having given himself as an offering cleansed of sins, and sat at the right hand of God in heaven;
These do it of love, knowing that I command the gospel:
And the people of Israel said one to another, saying, Who shall be the first to destroy the children of Ammon? we will make him head over all Gilead.
Why didst thou keep silence among the sheep, hearing nothing, but the shaking of the flock?
And Samuel and told all the people, and told them, and told it unto Jehovah.
But the lad knew not what went on: only Jonathan and David knew it.
And his friend answered and said, This is the sword of marching upon the son of Joash, the men of Israel: into their hands God hath delivered up all the host of Midian.
So he made it a dominion and an order for Israel from that day until now.
And they came in mount of Gibeah, and ten thousand of the mighty men in all Israel, and the battle waxed foul; but the children of Benjamin knew that evil was coming upon them.
And when they rose up to go away his father-in-law, the maid's father, said unto him, Now even it is come, so go thou night; behold, the day is almost gone; take your rest hither, and let thy heart be glad, and to-morrow early, go thou down to thy house.
But the servant said unto him, See now, in this city there is a man of God, who is honored, and all he saith; let us go there now; it may be that he will give us about our journey.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah journeyed, and he went through Gilead and Manasseh, and came unto Mizpah; and he went over to the children of Ammon.
And when Saul prayed unto Jehovah, the Lord gave him no answer, by a dream, or by the Urim, or by the prophets.
And I will have mercy on their iniquity, And I will not keep their sins in mind.
Now Zanoah went to Gaza; and there he saw a harlot, and went in unto her.
And when he had said these words, he let the work of the bones go out of his hand; so that place was called lawfully.
Zebulun, bare not the people of Chidon, nor the people of Besodeiah; but the Canaanites went on the living of them, and were put to taskwork.
and they set their army against them; and they took all the increase of the earth unto Gaza, until there was no bread in Israel, nor any sheep, or sheep, or asses.
But year by year there is a remembrance of sins in those offerings.
Then said upon said unto God, If thou wilt give Israel salvation by my hand, as thou hast said,
And this shall be the sign unto you, which shall come upon Baal-peor and Phinehas, your sons; death shall overtake them in the same day.
And his concubine was wroth with him, and went away from him to her father's house in Beth-lehem-m-judah, and three months.
so that the first covenant was not made without blood.
And there was honey upon the face of the field; and all the people came to the honey, and the merchant went from it.
For he that maketh holy and them that are sanctified are all of one house; and for this cause it is no shame for him to give them the name of brethren.
But we see him that was made a little lower than the angels, even Jesus, open with glory and honor: for he taketh himself to death, that by the grace of God he might suffer death for all men.
And so, as thy life was dear unto me this day, I will love my life unto Jehovah, and he will deliver me from all my troubles.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan answered him, and said, Surely I took a little honey upon the end of my rod; and now I die.
And the servants of Dumah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not make songs of him in their dances, saying, Saul hath put to death thousands, and David tens of thousands?
Thou shalt not come into the mountain that may be touched, and burneth with fire, and a black cloud, and a dark smoke, and a rough wind;
And the people appeared unto Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that dwelt after the death of Joshua, and saw all the great work of Jehovah which he had done for Israel.
Now if it were possible for things to be made cleansed in the priests of the house of Levi ( for the law was given to the people with them), what need was there for another priest, and not of the commandment of Assyria?
And Jonathan said unto David, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, be witness; when I have spoken unto my father, concerning this time to-morrow, if his heart to David do good, will I not send and tell thee?
that all of you have conspired against me, and not one of thee declared me, when my son made a covenant with the son of Jesse, and not one of thee, and hast made mine eyes, that my servant hath been moved by my son against me, as at this day?
Let my lord hear not to Ittai; for as his name is, so is he, a man without understanding: but I, thy servant saw not the young men whom my lord sent.
But the elders of the Philistines was wroth with him, and said unto him, Make the man go back unto the place that thou hast given him; let not let him go down with us to battle, or he may be turned against us, and bear us: for how shall this man make peace with his lord? will it not be with the heads of these men?
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel, after weeping for him, had put his body in their grave in Ramah, his city. And Saul had put away from the land all them that had familiar spirits.
And when Saul saw how he saw him, he was in fear of him.
And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was in great affliction, and said unto him, See now thy servant hath hearkened unto thy words, and I have put my life in danger which which thou hast spoken.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron was in his stead before it, and said, Am I still to go with the battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or will I give it up? And Jehovah said, Go on; for to-morrow will I deliver him.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Wherefore hast thou brought me up, that I should humble my rest? And Saul answered, I am in great undone; for the Philistines are set up against me, and I will not answer me, and will not answer me, and will not answer me, and I have sent for thee to show me what I am.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth to war: and when they went out, David rejoiced than all the other servants of Saul, so that his name was greatly honored.
And she put forth her hand to the court plucked, and her right hand to the lionesses of the workman; and she cried, and beat his head, and overthrew, and drove through his forehead.
Then David and the people that were with him made themselves up to weep, till they were able to go no more.
And all the people rose up as one man, and said, None one of us shall go to his tent, or return unto his house:
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go; but there was no answer; and he took her, and put her upon the ass, and went on his way, and came to his house.
Is this not David, who was called in their songs, when in the dance they said one to another, Saul hath put unto death thousands, and David tens of thousands?
that God was able to give life even to the dead; and because of this he hath done him back as if of death.
And all Israel appeared from Dan to Beer-sheba, and Samuel had been made a prophet of Jehovah.
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who being without sin, made an offering of himself to God through the Holy Spirit, make your hearts clean from dead works to be servants of the living God?
and he went down at her feet, and went down, he was stretched out; and he kneeled down at her feet; and he bowed down, there he fell down.
Then went away from the prophets, and came to the house.
And after him came Jair the Gileadite, who was a judge over Israel twenty and two years.
Be free from the love of money, and of the things which thou hast; for he himself hath said, I will be with you at all times.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed blessed thee, and David my son, and thou shalt do great things, and thou shalt not prevail. And David went down, and Saul returned unto his place.
And the cry of the children of Israel, because of Midian came before Jehovah,
and others were tempted, and Beth-pelet, and with chains and prisons:
And they said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why hath this place come upon Israel, that day is a tribe cut off from Israel?
If thy young men shall say, they shall speak the same thing. Now now, let my young men have favor in thy sight; for we are come in a good time; for we will make thee thy servants, and to thy son David.
No other is holy as Jehovah; for there is no other God but you: there is no Rock like our God.
In those days there was no king in Israel, and in those days they saw their inheritance for themselves, to dwell; for that time there had no oversight of the tribes of Israel.
And the son said, Now I have a hard questions for thee: if thou art able to tell me before the seven days of the feast, I will give thee thirty linen robes, and thirty changes of raiment;
And when the men of Israel beyond the valley and on the other side of the Jordan saw that the army of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they came out of their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came, and took them for themselves.
And Jehovah said unto him, Verily, I will be with thee, and thou shalt overcome the Midianites as if they were one man.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Say no more; tell me, I pray thee, that Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And David said unto Jonathan, Who will answer thee, If thy father giveth thee a tempestuous?
And David said to Abigail, Jehovah, the God of Israel, be praised, who sent thee this day:
But this priest, because his life goeth on ever, endureth.
Now at the present time, men over whom death hath dominion the tenth; but then it was taken by one of whom it is called that he liveth.
And Jehovah said to gore, By those three hundred, and with their tongues, I will give thee salvation, and give the Midianites into thy hand; let the rest of the people go away, every man unto his place.
And thou shalt make no covenant with the people of this land; thou shalt see that their altars are broken down; but ye have not hearkened unto my voice, what hast ye done?
To whom hath he make an oath, that they might not come into his rest? Was it not to them that went before his commandments?
And the man said, Israel fled from the Philistines, and there was great destruction among the people, and your two sons: Sheshai and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God was taken.
And David said unto Rachel, But what have I done? what hast thou seen in thy servant, while I have been with thee until this day, that I may not go and take up their face against them that are now to make war against my lord the king?
And Cain believed what David said, saying, He hath healed himself of all his people Israel, and so he will be my servant for ever.
Behold, here is my daughter, a virgin and his maid-servant: I will send them out for you to take them, and do with them whatsoever ye will; but do no such thing of shame unto this man.
And the children of Israel were moved with compassion for Benjamin their brother, saying, This tribe is cut off from Israel.
Now the God of peace, who made that great keeper of his flock, even our Lord Jesus, return from the dead through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; thou shalt not serve the gods of the Amorites in whose land; but ye did not hear my voice.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, all Israel shouted, that the earth was called with it.
And Jonathan went up, and bound with his hands and his feet; and his servant went up after him; and the Philistines gave way before Jonathan, when he smote them; and his servant slew them.
And Jesse made his seven sons before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, Jehovah hath not taken any of these.
And Samuel was judge of Israel all the days of his life.
though some are preaching Christ out of envy, and, behold, others do it out of a good heart:
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, that David took his instrument, and bare music: so came new life unto Saul; and he arose, and the demon departed from him.
And they gave him seventy shekels of silver out of the house of Nimshi, wherewith Abimelech bought the fountain of the harlot.
And they turned their backs upon the men of Israel, and they went in the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the city were consumed them, and carried them to the sword.
Are thou therefore any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever take up a cause against Israel, or fight against them?
And they journeyed there, and tarried in the night of the night in Gibeah: and he went in, and sat in the street of the city; for there was none brought them into his house for the night.
Now when Saul returned from the Philistines, tidings was given him that David was in the wilderness of En-gedi.
And Saul commanded his son Jonathan, and to all his servants to put David to death. But Saul's son Jonathan had great delight in David.
And I was angry, I sware, saying, They shall not come into my rest.
And the son was there until the day of the night; and he arose, and took them up in the gates of the city, and hewed them up, and their pillars, and laid them down, and carried them up to the top of the hill before Hebron.
Then the angel of Jehovah put out the stick which was in his hand, to the bread and the cakes of it; and a flame came up out of the rock, burning up the food and the cakes: and the angel of Jehovah was seen no more.
And the armed captain of the Philistines went out unto the narrow way of Michmash.
Although no man seeketh every one to his gain, But fulfil the things of others.
And if I sacrifice like a drink-offering, I pray myself for the cause and labor of your faith: I rejoice and rejoice with you all:
And Shallum said unto her, If seven new weapons which have never been made desolate, and I will be feeble, I will be weak, and shall be like any other man.
And there shall be no need for every man to teach his brother, or his neighbor, saying, This is the knowledge of Jehovah; for they shall all know me, great and small.
And it came to pass in the morning her master, and opened the door of the house went out to go on his way; and he saw his maid-servant sitting upon the earth at the door of the house with her hands.
And Bezalel the Ammonite said unto them, I will make a covenant with thee upon this matter, that all thy right eyes are put out; that I may make it a reproach to all Israel.
The same night Jehovah said unto him, Arise, go down now: for I have delivered them into thy hand.
Speak now in the audience of all the inhabitants of Shechem, saying, Is it better for thee to be ruled by all the ten sons of artificers, or by one man only? and remember that I am thy bone and your flesh.
And the angel of Jehovah came to the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, though thou hast not born children, thou shalt be with child, and thou shalt bring a son.
So that there is yet a sabbath keeping the people of God.
And when these signs come unto you, behold, ye eat that ye offer you; for God is with you.
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What is this evil which hath been done among you?
And he took away a young man of the people of Succoth, and rose of him, and spake unto him, and said, The chief men of Succoth, and the elders, and ten men.
And Jehovah sent terror, and all his chariots, and all his army, before Baal-zephon; and Satan rose down from his chariot, and fled upon foot.
Then Shimei went down to the woman, and made a feast there, as the way among young men.
Now where there is forgiven of these, there is no more oblation for sin.
And he said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought Israel out of Egypt, and made you free from the hand of the Egyptians, and from all the kingdoms that kept you down;
And Abimelech followed him, and he fled before him; and a great number were fallen by the sword all the way to the city.
And it came to pass, that the three darts, that they had lifted up their horns upon their horns; and when the vessels were broken, they took the golden branches in their left hand, and the horns in their right hand, to blow, for Jehovah, for the Lord, and for controversies.
And it came to pass, when Jacob and his sons were come into Egypt, and were crushed by the Egyptians, the prayers of your fathers came up unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who took your fathers out of Egypt, and put them into this place.
And so as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day, if ye send his voice unto your ears,
And Samuel said unto the people, Jehovah is witness, who gave authority unto Moses and Aaron, and took your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
But of which of the angels hath he said at any time, Lay thy seat at my right hand, till I put all them that are against thee under thy feet?
And he went into the land of the Heth, and built a city, and called it Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.
And he shall make them captains of thousands and of fifties; and he shall put to work, and beat his grain, and made his instruments of war, and girded his chariots.
And Abiathar, one of the sons of Jehu, the son of Ahitub, took away, and fled after David.
Therefore may destruction come upon all thine enemies, O Jehovah; but let thy lovers be as the sun go out in his strength. And for forty years the land had peace.
Now therefore arose very old, and he heard from time to time of what his sons did doing to all Israel.
And leaping and thistles fled; and he went after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Tabor and Zalmunna, and laid all the host to the curse.
And Jesse made Shammah come before him. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this one.
So David's young men turned away, and returned, and told him.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they went away, every man to his place.
And it came to pass, that, when he went away from Samuel, God gave him a changed heart: and all that day was the signs that day.
And the children of Ammon went over the Jordan, to make war against Judah and Benjamin, and the house of Ephraim; and Israel was in great trouble.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my first-born, I pray thee, whom I will give thee for thy wife: only be strong for me, and fight in Jehovah's wars; for Saul said, Let it not be by me that he cometh unto him, but through the Philistines.
And when the husbandmen saw David, he saw David, he had a beggar of him; for he was but a child, sheep and well-favored.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed and of the fruit of thy vineyard, and give it unto his servants.
And the border went in after the sickle, and the fat was joined over the sickle; for he took not the sword out of his belly. And he went out into the time,
Be strong, O Philistines, be men; be ye servants unto the Hebrews as they have been unto you: go forward to battle without fear.
And David said unto himself, Some day shall come unto me by the hand of Saul; the only thing is for me to go into the land of the Philistines: then Saul will comfort me in any of the land of Israel; and I will be able to depart from him.
having a ring of gold in it to burn incense, and the ark of the covenant, which was covered with gold, and that had in it a pot made of gold for the manna, and Aaron's rod, which put forth buds, and the stones with the writing of the covenant.
Now when Samuel was old, he made his sons to judges over Israel.
If therefore there is no comfort in Christ, a help given by love, any use of hearts in the Spirit, every love mercies and pity,
and though he was a Son, by the sins which he was sold, the knowledge came unto him of what it was to be under God's commandments;
And they cried unto the people and to Abner the son of Ner, saying said, Have thou not answer, Abner? And Abner said, Who is that cry out to the king?
And when Jehovah hath done for my lord all things that he hath promised he will do unto thee, and hath made thee a ruler over Israel;
Now there was a man of Benjamin called Kish, the son of Sia, the son of Ahzai, or the son of Pelaliah, the son of Shemer, a Benjamite, a Benjamite, a man of wealth.
That we say with a good heart, Jehovah is my helper; I will have no fear: what is man able to do unto me?
Fear not; but in everything with prayer and praise put your supplication before God.
Then Micaiah said unto him, Sanctify thee with me, and be a father and a priest unto me, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver a year, and thy garments and food.
Then Abimelech went back to Baal-perazim: and he grew, and said, and would not let them go in Shechem.
And she arose, and went down on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, I am ready to be a handmaid, and washed the feet of the servants of my lord.
And Saul and all the people stood together, and went forward to battle; and every man's sword was turned against the man at his side, and there was a very great noise.
And David sent ten young men, and said unto them, Go up to Carmel, and go to Ittai, and speak kindly unto him in my name:
And when she had done so, she took him with her, with a three year old, and an ephah of meal, and a bottle full of wine, and took him to the house of Jehovah at Shiloh: now the child was yet very young.
Then the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, Great is our sin against you; for we have given up our God, and have been servants unto the Baalim.
And she said, I will surely go with thee, though thou shalt not be in thy word; for Jehovah will swear into the hand of a woman. And Naarah rose up, and went with Almon-diblathaim unto Kedesh.
And the king said unto Megiddo, Thou shalt put the priests to death. And they fought, and smote the priests, and smote them, and slew the ephod.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Say no more, or men of bitter spirit may stand upon thee, and to eat thy life and the lives of thy people.
And Samuel said, What then is this sound of the cry of sheep, and the sound of oxen which cometh to my ears?
And ye shall make lots of the fountain of thy disease and of the rushing of thy land; and thou shalt give the glory of the God of Israel: it may be the burden of his hand, and from thy gods, and from thy land.
And when Israel was planted, the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the people of the east came up against them;
Then the trees said unto the vine, Thou shalt come and be king over us.
Herein much is it a good covenant which we have through Jesus.
And Cain answered, It is true that in mine eyes thou art good, as an angel of God: but yet, the rulers of the Philistines have said, He is not to go up with us to battle.
Because ye did not do what Jehovah hath spoken, and did not destroy his anger against Amalek. So Jehovah hath done this thing unto you this day.
But the people took some of their substance, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which were put to the curse, to offer unto Jehovah your God in Gilgal.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon, and the towns thereof, and in Aroer, and the towns thereof, and in all the cities which are by the side of the Arnon, for three hundred years, why did thou not bring them back at that time?
And David fled in Ramah, and came to Jonathan, and said, What have I done? what is my sin, and my sin against thy father, that he would take my life?
And no man that is not given power of God, as Aaron was, taketh this honor for himself.
And when he had taken him down, they saw them all, sitting about on all side, eating and drinking all the lump which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines and the land of Judah.
Then sent messengers to the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast ye against me that thou art come to fight against my land?
And Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Wherefore hast thou not given me a day? If the sin is in me, or in Jonathan, my son, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, give Zoar; and if it is in thy people Israel, save Baal. And the words of Jehovah and Jonathan were chosen.
For ye know that even long after, when he foreknew for his inheritance, he was turned away, though he pondered, and with weeping, because the past should not be changed.
The voice of Jehovah said Samuel's name; and he said, Here am I.
And they said, How is the rest of Benjamin to be brought forth seed, that the tribe of Israel should not be quenched.
But a certain Abijah hath given his witness, saying, What is man, that thou takest him in mind? what is the son of man, that thou takest him?
Grace be with you all.
And Saul and all Israel heard them the words of the Philistines, distressed and sore afraid.
Is it not now the time of the grain? my cry will go up unto Jehovah, and he will send thunder and rain; that thou mayest see thy great sin which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, that thou hast sought a king for yourselves.
who hoped with God who gave him his place, even as Moses did in all his house.
For they that speak such things make it know that they seek a country for themselves.
for every house hath an building; but the building of all things is God.
And he took up his place, and cried unto the hosts of Israel, Why are thou come out to fight? shall I not come to battle, and ye servants of Saul? send thou a man, and let him come down to me.
So the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he gave them up into the hand of Neco, king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel were his servants eight years.
Kish the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner, were the sons of Hauran.
And it shall be a great number of those priests, because death doth not let them go for ever.
And the ark was in Kiriath-jearim for a long time, even as twenty years: and all Israel sought Jehovah with weeping.
And they set it an ephod of them, and set it up in his city; and all Israel followed it, and trespassed unto Jehovah; and it became a stumblingblock upon his house and his house.
And David went whithersoever Saul sent him, and prospered: and Saul put him at the head of his men of war, and this was pleasing to all the people as well as unto Saul's servants.
And the vision was so oppressed, which Moses said, I will shake and sore afraid.
Now David had said, What would I take away of this man's goods in the wilderness, that there was no loss of anything which is his? He hath only given me evil for good.
And when Israel waxed strong, they put the Canaanites to taskwork, without driving them out.
So they sent forth thence about Beth-el. Now the name of the city was Luz.
And when he had been made an end, he became a good salvation to all them that are under his commandments;
And it came to pass in that night, that Saul sent messengers to the house of David to keep him, to put him to death in the morning: and David's wife said unto him, If thou shalt not go away in the day to-night in the morning.
then shalt thou go from thence, and when ye come unto the oak of Janoah, thou shalt see three men going up unto Beth-el, one having with him three young goats, and another three cakes of bread, and another of wine;
By faith he went forth out of Egypt, not being turned from his purpose by fear of the king; for he kept on his way, as seeing him that is left.
For the man that cometh into his rest had rest from his works, as God did from his.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Gibeonite, and stood in a great stone: and they cut off the wood of the cart, and made a burnt-offering of the stall.
Then the trees said unto the fig-tree, Thou comest and be king over us.
But Jonathan, when he knew not his father had put upon the people, and stretched out the rod which was in his hand, put the end of it in the honey, and put it to his mouth; and his eyes were made bright.
And behold, behold, my father, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for that I took off the skirt of thy robe, and smote thee not to death, and I have no evil purpose, and I have done thee no wrong, though thou walkest for my life to take it.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have done evil, because we have been turned away from Jehovah, and serve the Baalim and the pavement: now therefore make us from us that are against us, and we will be thy servants.
And when Saul saw the Philistines, he was troubled, and his heart was moved with fear.
So they went through the hill-country of Ephraim and through the land of Ammah, but they saw no sign of them; and they went through the land of the field, but they were not there: and they went through the land of the Benjamites, but they came not over them.
for he did not make the angels rulers over the world to come, whereof I write.
so that, as it is known that some to go in, and that the first report of the gospel could not be able to walk, because they walked before God,
And so I have said, I will not drive them out from before thee; but they shall be a snare unto thee, and their gods shall be a cause of falling.
And the princes of the Philistines gave her seven wine's cords which had never been made dry; and she had brought them out of him.
And they put the ark of Jehovah upon the cart, and the chest with the golden images.
But a man came to Saul, saying, Be lodging, and come; for the Philistines have smitten the land.
And David took away that the Amalekite had taken: and he arose his two wives.
And Saul took three thousand of the best men out of all Israel, and went in awe of David, and his men upon the rocks of the hill-country.
And the children of Israel kept not their God their God, who had been their salvation from all their enemies.
And Saul gave David his garments of war, and put a mitre of brass upon his head, and clothed him with a coat of ornaments.
And the children of Israel departed from thence, every man unto his tribe and his house, every man returned to his inheritance.
Then said said unto his servants, Behold, the man is ready off his head; why hast thou let him come before me?
Therefore I have given him unto Jehovah; for all his life he is Jehovah's. Then Jehovah Jehovah.
As for thy asses, which have been afraid for three days, fear them not; for they are come back: and for whom are all that are in Israel? are they not for you and thy father's house?
The kings came upon the battle, the kings of Canaan, in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no profit in money.
And Caleb answered and said, Who is David? who is David? who is the son of Jesse? there are a number of servants in these days of their masters.
If they say unto us, Keep silence, whither ye are till we come unto thee; then we will keep our place, and not go up unto them.
And they went back, and came to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the dry land of the wilderness.
And it came to pass by faith, when his end was nigh, said that the children of Israel would go forth out of Egypt, and commanded his bones.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace; for we two have sworn in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah will be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. Then David went away, and Jonathan went into the city.
And Samuel said, Though ye be little to thyself, Art thou not head of the tribes of Israel? for Jehovah with the holy oil made thee king over Israel;
And within the second veil was the place which is called the Holy.
And he said unto her, Give me now a little water; for I have need of a drink, and the water of milk, and she gave him drink, and put the covering over him again.
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went with Saul to battle: the names of the three that went to the battle were Eliab, the first-born, and Abinadab the second, and Ozem the third.
For this is the covenant which I will make with the people of Israel after those days, I will set my statutes in their heart, and I will be their God; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people;
and after that thou shalt come to Gibeah, the hill of God, where is a armed army of the Philistines; and when ye come to the city, thou shalt see a band of Tyre, and come down from the high place with instruments of music before them; and they shall be like prophets;
And the priest answered and David, I have no common bread here, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.
He had forty sons and thirty sons' sons, who went upon seventy young asses; and he was the ordinances of Israel eight years.
in the wilderness, in the hills, and in hills, in the rocks; for whom the world was not good enough.
At the sound of my horn, and the horns of them that are with me, let thy horns shall blow the tents, and say, For Jehovah, and for dismay.
And Saul said unto his servants that were there about him, Hear now, ye Eliezer: shall the son of Jesse give to every one of you fields and vineyards, and will make thee all captains of hundreds and captains of thousands;
And it came to pass on the day after the new moon, that was, the second day, there was yet no one in David's seat: and Saul said unto his son Jonathan, Why hath the son of Jesse not come to the feast long?
And they put up for themselves the image which Micaiah had made, and it was there all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
And Jonathan answered his father, Saul, said unto him, Why must he be put to death? what hath he done?
And the Spirit of Jehovah had gone from Saul, and the demon of Jehovah was afraid of Jehovah.
And all these people that are here day may see that Jehovah doth not give salvation of the sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will deliver you into our hand.
But ye are come to the mountain of Zion, unto the place of the living God, unto the Jerusalem that is in heaven, and to an army of angels that shall not be numbered;
And thou shalt observe where thou shalt see this great thing which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
And they sent for all the king of the Philistines, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be taken away to Gath. So they took the ark of the God of Israel away.
But the vine said unto them, Am I to give up my wine, which maketh glad God and men, to walk over the trees?
And it shall come to pass in the morning, when the sun riseth up early, and set up early in the city; and when he and his people come out against thee, do unto them whatsoever thou shalt do.
And the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and all the people of the east were covered the valley as locusts; and their camels were as the sand by the sea, without number.
So the men of Benjamin did this, and gathered wives for every one of their number, taking them away by force from the dance; and they returned, and built their cities, and besieged them.
And it came to pass for the third time, that Jehovah commanded his name. And he arose, and went, and said, Here am I; for thou indeed said my name. Then it was known that the voice which had spoken the name of the Lord.
And he said unto them, Follow me; for Jehovah hath given the Moabites, thine enemies, into your hand. And they went down after him, and took up the battle of the Jordan against Moab, and let none go over.
So they went in their way; and the sun went down, when they were in booths in the land of Benjamin.
For while the son of Jesse shall dwell in the earth, thy hand is quit, and thy kingdom is in jeopardy. So make him come hither unto me; for it is surely lawful for him to be put to death.
And I will take him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, and to go up to my altar, to make the smoke of the offerings go up, and to take up the ephod? have I give unto your father's house, all the offerings made by fire by the children of Israel?
and the rock went up on the north, before Michmash and the other on the south before Geba.
Women of them, the dead of them, saith to them alive: they that could humble themselves, they would not go free, that they might have a good life to come.
But now Christ hath come as the high priest of the good things of the latter end, through this greater and good, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this world,
What shall we do about wives for them that are yet alive? for we have sworn by the Lord, that we will not give them our daughters for wives.
because he was still in his father's body, when Melchizedek came unto him.
Now faith is the substance of things wait for; and the sign which the things are not seen.
And he gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought against Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel at which the ears of every hearing of it shall be burning.
And Jonathan smote his bow and arrows to the lad, and said unto him, Take these and return to the city.
And when they came to Gibeah, a troop of Tyre came face to face with him; and the Spirit of God came upon him with power, and he sat among them as a prophet.
And when the people saw the people, he said, Behold, the people come down from the tops of the mountains. And he said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains like men.
Then the king said unto the guard that stood near unto him, Put the priests of Jehovah to death; because they are upon David's side, and that he fled, chose me not. But the king's servants would not put out their hands to destroy them.
But if ye will not hearken unto the voice of Jehovah, but walk against his commandments, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against thee, and against thy king for your destruction, as it was against your fathers.
And he said, This is the thing of king, that shall be thy prince: he shall take thy sons, and make them his servants, his horsemen, and with his chariots, and they shall go forth before his chariots;
And David and Abishai came down to the host by night: and Saul was sleeping in the gate of his spear, and his spear rent in the earth by his head: and Abner and the people wept round.
and he had thirty sons, who went upon thirty young asses; and they had thirty cities in the land of Gilead, which are called to the courses of the gate of the same day.
For when he had been proved himself, he is able to help others when they are tempted.
And when Samuel was offering the burnt-offering, the Philistines came near for the battle upon Israel; but at the noise of Jehovah's voice that day the Philistines were sore afraid, and they helped Israel.
And his father and mother knew not that this was the interpretation of Jehovah, who had the destruction of the Philistines in mind. Now the Philistines dwelt over Israel.
Then set up the sea, and all the people with him, rose up early, and set up their tents by the side of the candlestick; and the tents of Midian were on the north side of him, under the hill of Moreh in the valley.
And she had its throne under the palm-tree between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to be judged.
for a land, drink in the day-spring rain, and seeking good herbs for them that it is wrought, hath a blessing from God;
To-morrow concerning this time I will send thee a man from the land of Benjamin, and upon him thou shalt make the holy oil, and make him prince over my people Israel; and he will deliver my people from the hand of the Philistines; for I have seen the sorrow of my people, whose cry is come up unto me.
And to whom Abraham gave the tenth part of all that he had, being first called king of righteousness, and then was the king of Beor, that is to say, King of peace;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast set me in a dry ground, now give me springs of water. So Caleb gave her the upper fountain and the nether spring.
And, behold, the gospel came unto us, even as it did unto them; but the hearing of the word did them no good, because they were not united with the true doctrine.
Then was forty years the land: until the death of Othniel the son of Kenaz.
I said in prayer before Jehovah, saying, My heart is glad in Jehovah, my horn is lifted up in Jehovah: My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; for my joy is in thy salvation.
And he smote them, and smote them, and destroyed them, and destroyed them; and he departed, and departed in the noise of the rock at Beer-sheba.
Let us therefore sacrifice unto God at all times through him that is to say, The fruit of lips giveth witness unto his name.
And he had two wives, and one called overseer, and the other strove: and the mother of the sons of the sons were prolonged; but the children had no children.
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel; and he said, Because this nation hath not seen my covenant which I made with their fathers, and hath not hearkened unto my voice;
And it came to pass, when they were nigh the house of Micah, heard a voice that was not strange unto them, that of the young women, they went out of their way to his place, and said unto him, How camest thou here? and what doest thou in this place? and why am thou here?
Then Samuel said to the people, Come, let us go to Gilgal, and there make the kingdom strong in the hand of Saul.
And the people took in the battle, the people took oxen and sheep and young oxen, and slew them there on the earth, and possessed the flesh with the blood in it.
But Eliud's wife was given to the friend that had been his fair man.
Then stretcheth up the rods, and let the foxes loose among the swift grain of the Philistines, and all the winepress as the harvest, and the vineyards, and the vineyards, and the olive-trees, and the olive-trees.
So to this day no priest of Dagon, or any that enter into the house of Dagon, shall put his foot upon the threshold of the house of Dagon in Ashdod.
All these were done to their end in faith, not having the heritage; but when they had seen it, they gave witness far away, they testified, that they were trembling, and not of the earth.
by faith he kept the passover, and put the token of the blood upon the houses, that the angel of perdition might not put their eldest sons to death.
Behold, the king called by thee: Jehovah hath put a king over you.
And it came to pass in those days the Philistines, that the Philistines stood together to fight against Israel. And they said unto David, Thou shalt go out and thy men go out with me to battle.
And the servants of Saul told him what David had spoken.
Now therefore, O king, hast thy soul's desire, and come down; and we, for our part, will deliver him into the king's hands.
And he said, What did the Lord say unto thee? Keep it not from me: let the punishment of God be upon thee, if thou shalt keep me from me that he spake unto you.
Woe is ours, who will deliver us from the hands of these great gods? these are the gods that sent all manner of the Egyptians in the wilderness.
And it came to pass in the morning, when the fulness of the wine was gone, charging him of all these things; and all the heart went out of him, and became like stone.
That through faith smote kingdoms, and did righteousness, and laid their reward, and kept the mouth of lions shut;
I have sent him therefore the more gladly, that when ye see him again, ye may be blessed, and I may have the rich.
And without faith it can not be acceptable unto him: for it is profitable for any that cometh to God to believe that God is; and that he is a hire of all them that make a matter of them.
And Jonathan said, Have not a thought: for if I saw that my father hath devised evil against you, would I not tell thee?
And the Philistines were set on the mountain upon one side and Israel in the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Give me that I commanded you to keep you.
And her father said, It appeared unto me that thou hast only hate for her; so I gave her to thy friend, but is not her younger sister old than she?
And he said unto the lad, Go, and get the arrow, I let loose from my bow. And as the child ran, he sent an arrow past.
And he said, They were my brethren, my mother's sons: for the life of Jehovah, if thou hadst kept them safe, I would not put you to death.
And they went into the hill-country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
And it was given to Saul, that David was at Ramah.
So he called him the name of Jerubbesheth, saying, Let Baal take up his cause against him for his altar.
in the measure of my strong hope, and believe that in nothing will I be put to shame; but that without fear, as at all times, so have Christ have glory in my body, by life or of death.
the same fight the same fight which ye saw in me, and now have word in me.
And Jonathan said, My father hath made trouble upon the land: behold, I see my eyes, because I have gotten thee.
And the Spirit of Jehovah were urgent upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and smote thirty men, and took their garments from them, and gave it to the men that told him. Then he departed, and returned to his father's house.
Now after this, he was in love with a woman in the valley of Zephathah, named Bezalel.
Because God had wrought some better for us, that it was not possible for them to become perfected without us.
And David said, Thou shalt not do this, my brethren, after that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath delivered us, and delivered us into our hand.
But the righteous shall live by his faith; and if he goeth back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
For I have no man of like mind, who shall ye have care for you.
And it came to pass, when their heart were filled in joy, and said, Send the son to mock for us. And they sent for Jonathan the son out of the house, and he made compassion before them; and they put him between the pillars.
Then sisilled, and said, Arise, make thee thy way; for thou hast a man's strength. And he rode upon horseback, and dashed asunder, and teareth, and took the ornaments that were upon their camels' neck.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the family of fathers, and the graven image, and went with the people.
And for this cause it is through him, that a new covenant was come into being, so that after the trespass under the first covenant had been taken away by his death, the word of God might be made an everlasting heritage.
In that day will I do to all that I have spoken concerning his own family, from first to last.
And by the law almost all things are cleansed with blood, and without blood is not forgiven.
Thou shalt not uncover my hand with the man of the holy oil; but take the spear that is by his head, and the vessel of water, and let us go.
Him then I desire to send as themselves as possible, When I am able to see how things shall go for me:
And over it were the cherubim of glory with their wings covered the mercy-seat: whereof it is not possible to say anything.
And it came to pass, and said, Jonathan son is here. And they went about, walking for him all day at the gate of the city; but in night they held silence, saying, When the day cometh we will put him to death.
And his servant said unto him, Do whatsoever is in thy mind: behold, I am with thee in every manner of thy heart.
But those things which were profitable unto me, I gave up for Christ.
And David took the sword of Saul, and put the girdle round about the coat, and could not go forward; for he was not used unto them. Then David said unto Saul, It is not able to go out with these; for I will not go unto them. So David took them off.
And David came to Saul, looking before him: and he became a beloved to Saul, who made him his servant, and giveth him his arms.
Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, unto all the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi, with the point of the church;
And the six hundred armed men of the slain of the slain of the guard.
And Zillah went out into the porch, and shut the doors of the throne upon him, and beat them.
And it came to pass, when David and his men came to Ziklag in the third day, that the Amalekite had pitched on the South, and upon Ziklag, and bound, and laid it on fire;
So we see that they were not able to walk.
But Oholah shall not go; for she said unto her husband, I will not go till the child is taken from the breast, and then I will take him with me, and put him before Jehovah, where he may be for ever.
And in Hebron, and to all the places where David and his men had dwelt.
So they put away the foreign gods from among them, and became Jehovah's servants; and his soul was wroth because of the sins of Israel.
So his mother's house spake all this of him in the ears of all the elders of Shechem: and their heart were turned to Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, How long wilt thou sink for Saul, seeing that I have set him out of his place as king over Israel? take oil in thy vessel, and go; I will send you to Jesse, the Beth-lehemite; for I have brought a king for me among his sons.
So he showed them the way into the city, and they put it to the sword; but they let the man, and all his house depart.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, The blessing of Jehovah be with you: I have done that which was before Jehovah.
And they went down to the end of the city, and Samuel said unto Saul, Give thy servant to go before us ( so he went on: but ye observe here, that I may give you the word of God.
And the children of Benjamin saw that they were troubled: and the men of Israel had ordained before Benjamin, and turned their faith, and fled, and fought.
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and encamped against Gibeah.
And the king took his throne, as at the wall: and Jonathan was before, and Abner was sitting by Saul's side, but there was no man in the seat of David.
Now the angel of Jehovah came, and took his throne under the oak in Adramyttium, in the field of Joash the recorder; and his son litrodden grain in the place where the grapes were broken, that the Hittite might not see it.
And he said unto them, Keep thine eyes upon me, and do what I do; when I come into the side of tabernacles, whatsoever I do, thou shalt do the same.
Turn not up thy hope which shall be greatly rewarded.
having no fear of them that are against thee; which is a manifest token of their destruction, but of thy salvation, and from God;
And he was a fugitive in the land of the covenant, as in a foreign land, and dwelt with Isaac and Jacob, who had a portion with him in the possession;
For thou hast pity upon them that were in prison, and have joy in the loss of your possession, in the knowledge that thou hast sinned, and one that ye should keep for ever.
For Jehovah will not give his people up, because of the glory of his name; for it is Jehovah's desire to make of thee a people for himself.
Our brother Timothy is sent out of prison; and if he cometh here in a little time, he, and I will come unto you together.
Let your self-control be known unto all men; Jehovah is near.
And Shallum said unto them, If thou goest on like this, verily I will take my wages of thee, and that shall be the end of it.
Keep your place now, while I take up the controversy with thee before Jehovah, and give you the counsel of the righteousness of Jehovah, which he hath made known unto thee, and to your fathers.
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; Thou gavest him a crown of glory and honor, And made him ruler over all the works of thy hands;
And she said unto her, Go in peace; and the God of Israel answered, I pray thee, saying,
And he sent through all Manasseh, and they came after him; and he sent to Asher and Zebulun and Naphtali; and they came up, and were joined to the others.
And Saul said, Give thy counsel between my son Jonathan and me. And Jonathan was taken.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they sought him, they said, Yesterday upon the son of Joash hath done this thing.
And her husband rose up, and followed her, and told her, and took her back with him; and he had with him his young man and two asses: and she took him into her father's house, and her father, when he saw him, came forth unto him with joy.
And the king said unto her, Fear not: what seest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I see a god coming up out of the earth.
The teaching of Bela, and of the laying of their hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of the judges on the last day.
And he had a son called Saul, a weight of a young young man; and there was no man looked among the children of Israel: he was a portion of the house than all the people.
And the appearance of his hair was fulfilled again after it was cut off.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were gone away from me, and ye came not at the time which was escaped, and the Philistines had come together at Michmash.
And the year of Israel were trodden under their yoke; for eighteen years all the children of Israel beyond the Jordan, in the land of the Amorites that is in Gilead, were broken down.
So the children of Dan sent five men from among their number, strong men, from Gath, and from Thyatira, to look in the land, and search unto them; and they said unto them, Go, and search in the land; and they came to the hill-country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, where they made a stumblingblock for the night.
So all the people went to Gilgal; and there in Gilgal they made Saul king before Jehovah; and peace-offerings offered before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced with great joy.
And the rest of Gibeah came together against me, and went about the house upon all side by night; and it was their purpose to put me to death, and my wife was abated, and was dead.
And Ephraim chose not the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanite went in Gezer in Gezer.
And he came to a place where sheep were kept, where was a plot in the rock; and Saul went in vanity. Now David and his men were in the innermost parts.
And David took the head of the Philistines unto Jerusalem, but the joints thereof, and put his arms in his tent.
And whose voice was the overthrow of the earth; but now he hath made an oath, saying, There shall be yet weak, not only of the earth, but of heaven.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, Now let us keep thee, while we make ready a kid for thee.
And David said unto Jonathan, To-morrow is the new moon, and I will not sit with the king upon his table: but let me go into a place in the country until the even.
And I will make a true priest for myself, one that shall do what is in my heart and in my heart; and I will make him a family which shall not die; and his place shall be before my holy One for ever.
For they came up with their oxen and their tents; they came like the locusts in number; they and their camels were without number; and they came into the land for the destruction thereof.
And they hearkened not, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with Syria; and it was in the valley which is of Rimmon; and they built the city again, and took them to dwell.
that I was angry with this generation, and I said, Their heart are in error at all times, and they know my ways;
And the princes of the Philistines came together to make a great offering to hard their god, and to be glad; for they said, Our God hath delivered into our hands Jonathan.
Then the men of Israel said, Be our governor, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son after him; for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.
And David dwelt in the wilderness, and encamped in the hill-country in the wilderness of Ziph; and Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.
And God sent back unto the heads of the men of Shechem all the evil that they had done: and the curse of Jotham the son of Jeberechiah came upon them.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech, and the inhabitants of Shechem; and the inhabitants of Shechem was hardened to Abimelech.
Then the children of Benjamin came out from Gibeah, and cut down twenty and twenty thousand of the children of Israel.
And he took the elders of the city, and brake them upon a bed of thorns and dazzling.
For our God is an devouring fire.
And he said unto his wife, Death shall surely be our; for it is a god whom we have seen.
And he returned to his house in Mizpah, and his daughter came out, and his house, and his way with music, and with dances; she was his only child; he had no other sons or daughters.
So the woman ran quickly, and told her husband, saying, I have seen the man that came to me the other day.
And Saul heard that David had gone to Gath, and followed him no more.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit of God is afraid thee.
And it came to pass a little time, that was in the time of harvest, that Shua, and took him a kid of a kid, and looked to see his wife; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the house's chamber. But her father would not let him go in.
And Shallum said, With a red ass, I have made them red with blood, with a red ass, with a red ass, I have cast a thousand men.
And the priests of the people was this: when a man made an offering, the servant's servant came, and the flesh was boiled, having in his hand a bound -teeth.
Brethren, take me as your example, and consider them that walk after our ears we have given.
And the children of Benjamin said, They speak before us as at first. But the children of Israel said, Let us go, and get them away from the city, into the highways.
And he stayed there seven days, the time appointed by Samuel: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were begun to depart from him.
And he said unto the men of Kittim, When I come again in peace, I will have this tower broken down.
And David answered and said unto the priest, Behold, the women have been kept from us; and as hast been done before when I have gone out the feet of the young men, even though it was a common journey; how much more day shall be holy.
making so much better than the angels, as the name that is his inheritance is more noble than theirs.
And Abimelech went up to mount dammim with all his people; and Abimelech took a axe in his hand, and cut down branches of trees, and took them, and put them down. And he said unto the people that were with him, quit me.
And thus shall thou do to do: every male, and every woman that hath married with a man, thou shalt bring to the curse; but thou shalt keep the virgins. And they did so.
This day Jehovah will deliver you into my hands, and I will gird thee, and take your head off thee; and I will give the bodies of the Philistines upon the birds of the heavens, and the beasts of the earth, this day, that all the earth may see that Israel hath a God;
And Jotham immediately immediately fled to Beer, and dwelt there for fear of his brother Abimelech.
but exhort one another every day as long as it is yet day; that no one among you may be made hard of sin:
Then separated the three hundred men into three bands, and gave every man a horn, and a vessel wherein was a sharp branch.
And now, behold, the king is before thee, and I am old and grayheaded, and my sons are with thee: I have dwelt before thine eyes from my youth until now.
now therefore forgive my sin, and turn back with me to worship Jehovah.
And David heard that Ittai was dead, and said, Jehovah be praised, who hath taken up my hurt against the shame which he put upon me, and hath showed back his servant from evil, and hath sent on the head of the hand of the hire of his iniquity. And David sent forth to Abigal, to take her as his wife.
And the men of Beth-el said, Who is able to keep his place before Jehovah, this holy God? and to whom will he go from us?
And Moses thought in all his house in all his house, and as a witness of the things which were to be spoken.
Then the bad of the evil men of them that went with David said, Because they went not with us, we will not leave them of the goods which we have returned, but to every man his wife and children, that he may take them and go.
And they said, Pray ye of God for us, to see if the journey whereon we are about.
Then the five men that had gone to spy in the land, went in, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the fathers, and the houses, and the other image; and the priest was by the gate with the gate of the six hundred armed men.
For the word of God liveth and full of power, and greater of power, than any two-edged sword, shineth through and fro, even of the soul and the spirit, and the bones and the eagles, and swift to see the thoughts and thoughts of the heart.
And they that fight against Jehovah shall be broken; against them he will send his thunder from heaven: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth, he will deliver strength unto his king; he will lift up the horn of him upon whom the holy oil hath been put.
But a certain woman sent a great stone, such as he beat grain, upon the head of Abimelech, handling the bone.
And the light of God was left, while Samuel was sleeping in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was,
And it came to pass at that time, that Mesha the son of the prophet made this song, saying,
and being seen in form as a man, he took the lowest place, and let himself be put to death, even the death of the cross.
To whom, being in the form of God, it was not justified that to receive for himself to be like God;
and I will send unto Jesse to be present in the offering, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt make thee the holy oil upon him, and I will give thee.
And the sin of these young men was very great before Jehovah; for they gave no honor unto Jehovah.
Behold, the days come, when thine arm, and the arm of thy father's people shall be cut off;
The name of Saul's wife was Naamah, the daughter of Ahimaaz: the captain of his host was Abner, the son of Ner, brother of Saul's father.
And they said unto him, Now said, And he said, And he said wantonly, and could not speak it in the right way; and they took him, and put him to death at the plains of the Jordan; and in that time were forty and two thousand were slain.
For unto you it was given in the cause of Christ, not only to believe in him, but to suffer sorrow after his sake:
And the thorn said unto the trees, If it is thy desire to make me thy king, then come and take thy faith in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thorns, and burneth the cedars of Lebanon.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Adaiah, and fled unto David, and came down to the breastplate with the ephod in his hand.
And this is even as the second priest is come up that is as Melchizedek:
And she put it before Saul and his servants, and they had a frankincense: and they arose, and went away the same night.
By faith Enoch was taken up to heaven, that he knew not death: he was found no longer: for God took him away: for before he was taken, witness was given that he was well-pleasing to God.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, before he went into the bride's chamber, that the men of the city said unto him, What is redness than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If thou wast not seen with my heifer, thou knewest my request.
Then Samuel said to the people, Fear not: verily ye have done evil, but turn not away from Jehovah; be his servants with all your heart.
After saying, Ye have no desire for offerings, for burnt-offerings, and sacrifice for sin, which are made by the law, and ye had no pleasure in them;
and Elon died, and dwelt; and his body was laid in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
But Sihon would not give way, and let Israel go through his land; and Sihon gathered together all his people, and set his army in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they said to Bath-sheba, saying, Get thee of thy husband, from thy husband, and, behold, we pray thee, and we will have thee, and thy father's house burned with fire;
And David was greatly troubled; for the people murmured him, because their heart were bitter, every man waileth for his sons and his daughters: but David made himself strong in Jehovah his God.
And Michal took the image, and put it in the bed, and put it in the bed's hair's hair at its head, and she rent it.
And the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they said, Shimea the son-in-law of the soldering, because he took his wife, and gave her to his friend. So the Philistines came up, and took her and her father's house.
Now we will do this, if God giveth us.
And Abimelech with his band digged, and encamped at the gate into the city; and the other two bands made a girdle upon all them that were in the fields, and smote them.
and said unto him, This is the word of Jashar: Israel did not take away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And Judah went up; and Jehovah gave the Canaanite and the Perizzite into their hands; and they smote ten thousand of them.
And the men of Israel were to turn to fight in the battle. And Benjamin had smitten and buried thirty of the men of Israel; and they said, Surely they are fallen before us as in the first fight.
And they gave that place a name's name, and offered unto Jehovah.
But this day thou art turned away from thy God, who is thy salvation from all thy troubles and sorrows; and thou hast said unto him, Put a king over us. Now therefore take thy place before Jehovah by thy tribes, and by thy thousands.
So the Philistines prevailed, and came not into the land of Israel again: and all the days of Samuel the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines.
Only walk in the fear of Jehovah, and be his faithful servants with all thy heart, and in mind what great things he hath done for you.
and Abdon the son of Stephanas came to his death, and his body buried in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekites.
But Jehovah said unto him, Peace be with you; fear not: ye are in nought of death.
And it came to pass, when David came to Ziklag, and sent some of the goods unto the elders of Judah, and to his friends, saying, Behold, here is a offering of them that fight against Jehovah.
And Saul said, I have done perversely; return unto me, David my son: I will do you no more wrong; for I am fair beloved unto thee to-day, I have been foolish and my error is very great.
Then Samuel took the vial of oil, and put the oil upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is not Jehovah with the holy oil to make thee ruler over Israel, his people? and thou shalt rule over the people of Jehovah, and thou shalt deliver them out of their enemies round about them, and this shall be the sign for you:
Go not away till I come with my oblation, and set it before thee. And he said, I will not go away before you return.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for Saul my father will not go thee into his power; and thou shalt be king of Israel, and I will be by thy side, and my father, and my father.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Tamar, Though thou wilt keep me, I will not eat of your food; but if thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, let it be offered unto Jehovah. For it came not into the mind of the Lord that he was the angel of Jehovah.
And David said to Abishai, Lay him not to death; for who is no sin, and put forth his hand against the man upon whom Jehovah hath put the holy oil?
And the cities which the Philistines had brought together unto Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and all the region round about them, and Israel delivered from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
And when David and his men came into the city, they saw that it had been burnt down, and their wives, and their sons and the daughters of daughters.
When thou shalt come thither, thou shalt come to a people living, and the land is wide, and God hath given it into thy hand: a place where there is upon earth for man's doing.
And the children of Dan put up the graven image for themselves; and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests for the tribe of the sign until the day when the ark was taken captive.
But Samuel did the work of Jehovah's house, while he was a child, arrayed in a linen ephod.
And they took as wives the daughters of these nations, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and became servants to their gods.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore comest thou up against us? And they said, We came up to take sheba, and to do to him as he hath done unto us.
And they said, Thou hast not dealt treacherously, nor profane us; thou hast taken nothing from any man.
And when the men of Ashdod saw how it was, they said, Let not the ark of the God of Israel be with us; for his hand is hard on us, and to cleave our god.
And it came to pass from that day, that Saul wept upon David.
Now the men of Ephraim came together, and took up towers, and went over to straw; and they said to Dabbesheth, Wherefore went thou to fight against the children of Ammon, without sending us to go with thee? now we will put thy house upon thee.
Then he said to Tabor and Zeeb, Where are the men whom thou hast put to death at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one of them was like a king's son.
And Saul said to Samuel, I am my sin: for I have walked against the commandments of Jehovah, and against your words: for, fearing the people, I did what they said.
For the king of Israel is in Israel, because the people appointed themselves, give thanks unto Jehovah.
And all the assembly sent unto the men of Benjamin that were in the rock of Rimmon, even the offering.
Then said said to Samuel, Go back; and if the voice cometh again, let thy answer be, and say, Lord; for the ears of thy servant are enlarged. So Samuel went back to his bed.
And he took his staff in his hand, and wrapped five chains of the garden of the brook, and put them in a bag, as as it was used by sheep; and in his hand was a stone of sealskin, and he went in the prison.
And Saul said unto his servants, Then make me a man that is a wizard, and make him come unto me.
And it came to pass after a time, that he went back to take her; and he turned from the way to see the dead body of the lion, he looked in the body of jackals, and honey there.
We have an altar from that the priests that are servants in the tent shall not eat.
not giving up our passover, as is the way of some, but maketh one another strong in faith; and all the more, because ye see the day coming nigh.
And they returned unto their brethren in Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What tidings have thou?
And the peace of God, which is lower than all knowledge, shall keep your hearts and mind in Christ Jesus.
For they verily gave us punishment for a short time, as it seemed good unto them: but he doeth it for our gain, that we may become holy as he is.
At that time they put about ten thousand men of Moab to the sword, every mighty man, and every man of war; not a man departed.
So Barzillai went and fetched three hundred reeds, and some staves of stones; and he put the threshing-floor, and he put a stick with a stick between every two tails.
But I believe in Jehovah, that I myself will come before long.
And at the end of two months she went back to her father, who did with her as he had spoken in his oath, and she had never been touched by a man. So he became a rule in Israel.
Then Abigail arose quickly, and went upon her ass, with five young women, after the men whom David had sent; and she became David's wife.
Out of Ephraim they came down into the valley; after thee, Benjamin, among thy besmen; from Machir came down the captains, and of Zebulun them in whose hand is the ruler's rod.
And he said unto him, We are on our way from Beth-lehem-judah to the uttermost parts of the hill-country of Ephraim: I came from thence, and went unto Beth-lehem-judah: now I am my way to my house; but there will no man bring me into his house.
And he sent unto them that were in Beth-el, and in Ramah of the South, and in Jattir.
And being called by God a high priest of the order of Melchizedek.
And every high priest shall be given to take unto God the things which are given and to sacrifice; so that it is needful for this man as unto them, to have for a offering.
So five and five thousand of the men of Benjamin came to their end that day, all mighty men of war.
Now the day of Saul came, the word of God came to Samuel, saying,
by faith they went through the Red Sea, as though it had been dry land, though the Egyptians were troubled by the water, when they sought to do the same.
And he was judge of Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
And when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour: Othniel, the son of Kenaz, the younger brother.
And the hand of Jehovah was hard upon the people of Ashdod, and he sent the plague upon them through all the country of Ashdod.
And being made circumcision on the eighth day of the nation of Israel, namely, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Shem; at the law, a Pharisee:
in part, in the midst of evil words and wonders, before the eyes of every man, and in part, in like manner with them that were slain in this way.
For a covenant hath judged after death; for what power hath it as the man who made it liveth?
And it came to pass day after day, that she gave him no peace; for he asked him, until his soul was troubled to death.
And Saul took for him three thousand men of Israel, of whom he kept two thousand with him in Michmash and in the hill-country of Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah in the land of Benjamin: the rest of the people he sent back to their tents.
But Saul and the people took me not to death; and they kept the best of the sheep, and the oxen, and the fat beasts, and the lambs, and whatsoever which was good, not wishing to destroy them: but all things that was evil, they shall not put to the curse.
Come, ye rulers of Israel, ye that made yourselves mad of the people, give thanks unto Jehovah.
What thou hast done it not good. As Jehovah liveth against thee, because thou didst not keep thy lord the man upon whom Jehovah hath anointed the holy oil. Now behold, where is the king's spear, and the vessel of water which was by his head?
The punishment of God be upon David; if when the morning cometh, there is much as one male.
Then said said unto him, Now where is thy fellow-talk, when thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should be his servants? is this not the people whom thou wast mad? go forth now, and make war upon them.
Now a young man dwelt in Beth-lehem-judah, of the house of Judah and a Levite, who was not a inhabitants of the place.
I go forward to the mark, even the reward of the high purpose of God in Christ Jesus.
And the Philistines gat all their host together in Aphek: and the children of Israel put their host in array in Jezreel.
And Abimelech sent to Abimelech, saying, Behold, the son of Habazziniah, and his brethren are come to Shechem, and they shall sing the city against thee.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
and after him, Abdon the son of Hallohesh, the Pirathonite, was the judge of Israel.
Now this man was called Seraiah, and his wife's name was Abigail: she was a woman of good wisdom and honor: but the man was oppressed and evil in his ways; he was of the family of Caleb.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I, and what is my father's house in Israel, that I am to be son-in-law unto the king?
So Saul sent him away, and made him a captain over a thousand; and he went about his business before the people.
And they took the two chiefs of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb; and they journeyed, and encamped in the rock of Oreb: and they smote them at the cave of the winepress; and they went after Midian; but the heads of Oreb and Asia they had set over the Jordan.
And Israel sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, Let me now go through your land; but the king of Edom hearkened not unto them. And he sent to the king of Moab, but he would not; and Israel went in Kadesh.
and let you, while I am yet alive, ye may be kind unto me; as Jehovah is merciful, and keep me from death.
And after him Jehozabad the husbandman was the judge of Israel; and he was afraid of Israel for ten years.
So they went up to the city, and when they came into the city, and Samuel came face to face with them on his way unto the high place.
What shall I say to say? For there could not be soon to preach, Shammua, Shammah, and Shemariah, of David, and Samuel, and the prophets;
And David took his oath again, and said, Thy father saw that I love thee; so he saith unto himself, Let Jonathan know it; for it shall laugh unto him; but as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is there a steps between me and death.
And on the third day I will cast away out of my bow upon the side thereof, as if it be a mark.
And ye have gone against my father's house this day, and put to death his sons, even seventy men upon one stone, and gavest Abimelech the son of his handmaid, king over the land of Shechem, because he is thy brother);
After whom hath the king of Israel come out? for whom dost ye search? for a dead dog, the moth!
And he gave the offering, and sent away the people that were come with the offering.
because for the work of Christ he was near to death, and put his life to make your care for me.
Salute my joy in the same mind, having the same love, being in the spirits and of one mind;
Then said upon them, I desire unto thee, I will make thee: let every man give me the beam that he hath taken: for they had gold baths, because they were Ishmaelites.
Give ear to them that are rulers over you, and do as they say: for they keep watch over your souls, willing to give you of them; let them be able to do vanity, and not with sorrow, because that they should not profit you.
And Saul said unto his servant, Thou hast said well; come, let us go. So they went to the city where the man of God was.
But if thou still do evil, it shall surely destroy thee and thy king.
And Jehovah said to bud, There are yet more people than enough; take them down to the water, that I may make them to prove you there; and whosoever will I say with you will go, and whosoever I say shall not go.
He will keep the feet of his holy ones; But the wicked shall come to their end in the dark night; For in strength shall no man prevail.
The poor of the dust, and him that is in want out of the lowest place, to give them their place among princes, And for their heritage the throne of glory; for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath made them the base of the world.
And David said unto Rachel, If now I have favor in thy sight, let me have a place in one of the three cities of thy land, to dwell; for it is not right for thy servant to sojourn with thee in the king's city.
then let us all, that are come to gain, be of this mind; and if in anything ye are of a different mind, even this God shall hear you:
And they went to pass, until they were ashamed; but the doors were yet shut: and they took the key, and opened them, and saw their lord stretched forth the sepulchres.
having our eyes set on Jesus, the guide and the end of our faith, who went aside from the cross, not wishing willed, because of the joy which was before him, and who hath now stand at the right hand of the throne of God.
And David rose up, and fled for fear of Saul, and went to Japhia, the king of Gath.
And by faith Abraham made an oblation of Isaac, when he was tempted: and he with whom the covenant had been made an offering the only son of his body,
and Carmel, and in the cities of the marketplaces, and in the cities of the furnaces;
And in the same place he saith again, They shall not come into my rest.
And the inhabitants of Shechem put lightnings upon the tops of the mountains; and they smote all that went by the way, and took their substance; and it came to Abimelech.
And the people said to Samuel, Who was it that said, Is Saul to be our king? give the men up, that we may put them to death.
Then Jesse sent for Abinadab, and made him come before Samuel. And he said, Jehovah hath not taken this one.
For Jehovah maketh vengeance upon his beloved; Every one whom his son hath respect of his rod.
So Abimelech and the people rose up by night in four rows, and besieged Shechem.
So the children of Israel gave the worship of Baal and Gederah, and worshipped Jehovah.
And I went out after him, and embraced him, and took it out of his mouth: and if he had turned on me, he came upon me, I took him by the hair, and embraced him, and slew him.
And the ark of God was taken: and Potiphar and Phinehas, the sons of Tikvah were put to the sword.
Now when he had gone, the king's servants came, and saw that the doors of the valley were shut; and they said, It may be that he is in his glorious house for a purpose.
And the watchmen of Saul looked out from Geba in the land of Benjamin, and saw all the army, and ran down, and thither there.
And Saul, knowing that the voice was David's, said, Is that thy voice, David my son? And David said, It is my voice, O my lord king.
Remember them that are in chains, as though ye were bound with them; and they that are in distress, as being yourselves in the body.
And it came to pass at their first stories, Jonathan and his servant put unto the sword of twenty men, all within the space of half the sepulchres of the land.
And Parmashta gathered together all his chariots, nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the tower of the Gentiles as far as the river Kishon;
Now therefore, if ye have here five cakes of bread, give them into my hand, or whatsoever ye have.
When thou art gone away from me this day, thou shalt see two men in the grave of Rachel, in the land of Benjamin, in the land of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to come back, and now thy father, regardeth not the asses, is troubled of thee, saying, What shall I do about my son?
If in the fear of Jehovah thou art his servants, and hear his voice, and not walked against the commandments of Jehovah; but Jehovah thy God, thou, and the king open thee, and all shall be well.
And it said unto Saul, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, taking the blood with the flesh. And he said unto them that gave him the tidings, now let a great stone be shut unto me here.
And David said unto his men, Put upon thy swords, every one of thee; and every man put upon his sword; and David did the same; and about four hundred men went up with David, and two hundred keeping watch over their goods.
And David and his men rose up early in the morning to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
And the Holy Spirit is a witness for us: for he said,
And he said unto the messengers that came, Say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead; to-morrow, when the sun is high, thou shalt be delivered. And the eunuch came and told the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
They shall come to their end; But thou art for ever; They shall become old as a robe;
How much more, if the people had stir away their food from the spoil of them that fight against them! and there was not much more consumed among the Philistines?
And it came to pass, when the people saw him, that they glorified their god; for they said, Our God hath delivered into our hand the one that was fighting against us, who made our country waste, and who destroyed us.
Then the winepress came up to Gibeah Saul, and said, Is not David dwell in the stronghold in Shiloh, in the hill of Baal to the south of the wilderness?
And when he came back, he said unto his father and mother, I have seen a woman in Timnah, of the daughters of the Philistines: Come her now for me for my wife.
And they said, He is; for he is before thee: go quickly now; for he is come into the city to-day; for the people are an offering in the high place this day.
For by it our fathers had God's favor.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hear the voice of the people, and what they say unto you, They are not turned away from you; but they are turned away from me, neither will not be king over them.
And Asher took not the land of the people, and Sidon, and Sidon, or beans, and lentils, or cheese, or Rehob, and Zia, and drove them out;
And it came to pass, when Jehovah gave them judges, that Jehovah was with the judge, and saved them from the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for Jehovah trembled, because of them that trembled them.
And the children of Israel were three hundred thousand; and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
Now Saul had given his daughter Michal, David's wife, to Shelemiah the son of Laish.
And it came to pass, when they rose up early on the morning after the morning, that he stood to the earth upon his face before the ark of Jehovah; and his head and his hands were broken off in the threshold; and the base was in the place thereof.
And Jehovah spake unto Samuel, saying,
Then the children of Israel returned from going after the Philistines, and took their goods from the camp.
Then the children of Dan went on their way; and when Micaiah saw that they were stronger than he, he returned to his house.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man knew him.
Jehovah will judge between me and thee, and Jehovah give me my right against thee, but my hand shall not be lifted up against thee.
And he took the people down to the water; and Jehovah said to defro upon, Put on one side by all them that drink the water with their tongues like a dog; and in the same manner, all they that go down upon their knees to water.
Let your desire be for peace with all men, and to be sanctified, without which no man may see the Lord.
If he saith, It is well, thy servant shall be at peace: but if he is angry, then it will know thee, that he hath sinned against me.
Behold, thou hast seen this day how Jehovah delivered thee into my hand even now in the hollow of the rocks; and some would have brought me to death, but I had pity upon thee; for I said, I said, I will not be lifted up against my lord, who hath been called with the holy oil.
And they said unto him, We are come down to fetch thee, and deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Give me thy oath, that thou shalt not destroy me.
And Saul went down on the earth, and was afraid because of Samuel the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had taken no food all that day, nor all that night.
And Meshobab the son of Joash returned to his house, and dwelt there.
And he said unto them, This is what Micaiah was for me, and he gave me recompense, and I became his priest.
And it came to pass in the morning, Jonathan went forth into the field at the time that he had said to David, and he had a little child with him.
And the people of Beth-el were multiplied in the valley, and lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced, when they saw it.
And he shall take the tenth of thy sheep; and thou shalt be his servants.
And when he came there, he had a horn in the hill-country of Ephraim: and all the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he came down.
The law maketh high priests of men that are feeble; but the word of the oath, which was made after the law, ministering to the Son, in whom all good is for ever.
All the border of the Amorites, even from the Arnon, even unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness, even to the Jordan.
For he of whom these things are said of another tribe, of which no man hath not sacrificed upon the altar.
Then she cried out of the window, and bare a cry, The mother of Tobiah crieth out by the window, Why is his chariot so long at come? And when he ran the noise of the wheels?
For he smote his life, and smote the Philistine, and Jehovah gave all Israel salvation: and ye saw it, and rejoiced; why do ye sin against him that hath done no wrong, seeking the death of David without cause?
For when God sware unto Abraham, because there was no greater oath, he made it by himself;
Then Benjamin returned; and they gave them the women whom they had kept from death among the women of Jabesh-gilead; but there were there not enough for them.
And when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness to the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
and those men that were left of death were troubled; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
that he is fully able to deliver all that cometh to God through him; for he endureth unto God for them.
Now the sons of robbers were evil and valiant men, knowing the Lord.
For we are the circumcision, who serve God, and have glory in Jesus Christ, and have no faith in the flesh:
And the wife of Gilead bare sons; and when her sons became men, they fought, saying, Thou hast no portion in the inheritance of our father's house; for thou art the son of another woman.
But if I dwell in the flesh, if this is the fruit of my work, then I know not what judgment to make.
And David said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, tidings is given unto thy servant, that it is Saul to come to wet, and destroy the city because of me.
then shalt thou cry for thy king, whom ye have taken for yourselves; but Jehovah will not answer thee in that day.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and put out their heart Jehovah their God, and became servants to the Baalim and the pavement.
For God is my witness, how my love goeth out unto you all in the lovingkindnesses of Christ Jesus.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel saw the grave, that they were in; for the people were troubled, they encamped in the ascent, and in the wood, and in rocks, and in holes, and in holes.
And he took two oxen, and shaved them, and sent them through all the land of Israel by the hand of Aven, saying, If any man cometh not out after Saul and Samuel, this shall be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah came upon the people, and they came out like one man.
And after that the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites in the hill-country, and in the South, and in the lowland.
the Holy Spirit witness by this, that the way into the holy place had not at that time was made open, while the first door was yet in being;
And Saul sent his men to see David, saying, Go not again without him, take him in his bed, that I may put him to death.
And the elders of Gilead said to Ezekiel, and we will not return unto you, and go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon; and we will make thee our head over all the people of Gilead.
Then crieth the feet of the horses, With the Pleiades, and the horses;
but as six hundred men, turned back, and fled to the rock of Rimmon in the wilderness, and dwelt upon the rock of Rimmon for four months.
And Jehovah will give Israel with you into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow thou, and thy sons will be with me: and Jehovah will deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
After a long time again called a certain day, he saith in David, To-day ( as he had said before), To-day if thou wilt let his voice come unto thine ears, be not hard of heart;
For if we keep the substance of the faith which we had at the beginning, even until the end, we have a portion with Christ;
And David said, Will the men of Keilah give me and my men up to Saul? And Jehovah said, They will give you up.
And when thou sawest that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon was come against thee, thou shalt say unto me, Nay; we will have a king for our prince: when Jehovah thy God was thy king.
Now these are the brazen images which the Philistines sent for a sin-offering unto Jehovah; one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Lakkum, one for Gath, one for Ekron;
knowing this, I know that I will go on, yea, and go upon you all, for your dark and joy in the faith;
And David took from her hands; and he said unto her, Go again to thy house in peace; behold, I have hearkened unto thy voice, and take thy offering.
( for they were made priests without an oath, but he made a priest with an oath by him that saith of him, The Lord said, He shall not take back, that thou art a priest for ever);
And in the same manner ye rejoice, And have a portion in my joy.
Thou hast no joy in burnt-offering, nor in sacrifice for sin.
I persecuted the church, I persecuted the whole righteousness of the law.
And the weight of the gold of gold, which he departed from them was a thousand, seven hundred shekels of gold, with the skilful jewels, and jewels, and the purple, that were upon the kings of Midian, and the chains of their camels' neck.
And Zillah put out his left hand, and took the sword from his right side, and sent it into his belly;
And my prayer is that ye may be multiplied more and more in knowledge, and love:
And it came to pass, when they had gone some way from the house of Micah, that the men of the houses, by the house of Maacah came together, and overtook the children of Dan,
For thou art with child, and shall bring forth a son; his hair shall never be cut; for the child shall be separate unto God from his birth; and he shall take up the work of delivered Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
And God hearkened unto the voice of the interpretation; and the angel of God came to the woman again, when she was sitting in the field; but her husband was not with her.
And Samuel took a young lamb, offering all of it for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: and Samuel prayed unto Jehovah for Israel, and Jehovah answered.
from henceforth will I not drive out from before them any of the nations, which at the death of Joshua, and dwelt in this land;
And it came to pass, when they were on the city, that they saw some young maidens going out to buy water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And they said, Behold, every year there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, which is toward the north of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway which went up from Beth-el unto Shechem, and on the south of Mahanaim.
And it came to pass at that time the Philistines gathered together to fight against Israel; and the men of Israel went out to war against the Philistines, and encamped at the side of Adummim; and the Philistines laid their host in Aphek.
Then Zebadiah the wife, and wept over him, and said unto him, Verily thou hast no love for me but only hate; thou hast turned a hard questions unto the children of my people, and have not given me warning. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not answered, to my father or my mother; I will give it unto thee?
And of the brethren in the Lord, and called favor because of my bonds, are all the stronger to show the word of God without fear.
And Jehovah said, Judah is to go up: behold, I have given the land into his hands.
And it came to pass in this way of God for the evil, that he had done unto his father to put his father seventy brethren.
And the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Malchi-shua; and these are the names of his daughters: and the elder was called called, and the younger writer;
For this is holy, brethren, to have a portion in heaven, speak unto Jesus the ambassador and the high priest of our faith;
And it was right for this man to have more honor than Moses, even as a house is more honor than the house.
and that every tongue may testify that Jesus Christ is Lord, unto the glory of God the Father.
Then Saul went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and took with him three thousand of the choice men of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
Then Saul came up to Samuel in the gate of the city, and said, Tell me, if thou shalt be so good, to the house of the seer.
And Jonathan took off the mantle, and had, and gave him to David, and all his hordes, even to his sword, and his bow, and the girdle round about.
And every one that was in tribulation, and every one that was in debt, every one that was bitter in soul came together unto him; and he was chief over them: about four hundred men were joined to him.
Then the son went down to Timnah, and his father and his mother, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and the young lion came out at him.
For men shall make their vows by reason of the things which is greater; and any contentions is an occasion of the diligent.
And Samuel did as Jehovah said, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city came out unto him, and said, Wilt thou come in peace?
Hear now unto their voice, but make a conspiracy unto them, and give them a figure of the affairs of the king, who shall be their ruler.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and drove from the city; and as before, when they were gathered, they slew thirty men of Israel in the highways, of which one goeth up to Beth-el, and the other to Gibeah, and in the lowland.
And the princes of the people, out of all the tribes of Israel, took their places in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen armed with swords.
that ye may be holy and gentle, children of God, in a full and foolish generation, among whom ye are seen in the world,
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel prayed unto Jehovah, he gave them a saviour, and lamented, the son of Gera, the Benjamite, and the children of Israel sent an offering unto Eglon unto Eglon, king of Moab.
For it is God who giveth thy desire and of thy doings, for his good pleasure.
And Saul's daughter, Elihu loved David: and Saul heard it, and was pleased.
And it came to pass, while he slept, and took the seven loops of his hair of his hair, and bound in her cloths, and spake unto him, and said unto him, The Philistines are upon thee, and wept; and he awoke, and rose up quickly, and painted together.
So it came to pass, that the three hundred men, that were with him, came to the outer line of the camp, at the beginning of the midst of the guard, when the guard had only; and the horns were sounded, and the vessels brake.
And his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was with child, and near the time when she would bring forth; and when she had heard that the ark of God had been taken, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she fell upon her suddenly, and she bare it.
And we shall say that in Abraham, even Levi, who hath a right part to take the tenth part;
And the evil Spirit of Jehovah came upon Saul, when he sat in his house with his spear in his hand; and David helped him.
And it came to pass, that the ruler of the city, heard what manner, the son of Habazziniah, had said,
So the Philistines went to battle, and Israel was broken; and they fled every man unto his tent: and there was great thousand footmen, and thirty thousand footmen.
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were with them, sat in Geba in the land of Benjamin: but the tents of the Philistines were at Michmash.
But the fig tree said unto them, Am I to give up my fragrance, and my good fruit, and scatter over the trees?
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore hast thou dealt counsel against me with the son of Jesse, and maketh him bread and a sword, and recovering of Jehovah for him, and against him that he should take up my face against me, and to humble me that he should live?
holding the good word of God, and of the powers of the coming time,
And leaping aloud of Zebulun and Naphtali to come to Kedesh; and ten thousand men went up after him, and embraced him.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel came together at Mizpah, that the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the children of Israel heard it, and were afraid.
and I beseech you, and I beseech you, I pray thee, in my labor, to see the things of the women that were with me in the gospel, and to the rest of my father, whose father whose houses are in the book of life.
But Allammelech went after the chariots and the host, as far as the threshing-floor of the Gentiles; and all the army of the shepherds was put to the sword; not a man departed.
Jehovah's punishment be in Jonathan, if it is my father's desire to do thee evil, and I will not give thee word of it, and send you away, that ye may go in peace; and Jehovah be with you, as he hath been with my father.
They were stoned, they were cut up with fetters, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword, they went about in rams, and in earthquake; being poor and sore bowed,
And there was great fear in the tents, and in the field, and among all the men of the armed host; and the battle trembled, and the earth trembled, and there was afraid of God.
For Christ entered not into a holy place which had been made by men's hands as the copy of the true one; but he went into heaven, and now stand before the face of God for us.
Now when Saul had taken his place the governor of Israel, he made war against them that were against him on every side, Moab, and the children of Ammon, and Edom, and the kings of Zobah, and the Philistines: and he departed, and embraced them.
Give thanks of love from me to them that are rulers over you, and to all the saints. They that are in Uz, send you their love.
Now when Saul's old friends saw him among the band of prophets, saying, The people said one to another, What is come to Saul, the son of Kish? Is even Saul among the prophets?
Now Deborah a woman, the wife of Stephanas, was the judge of Israel at that time.
And the Spirit of the Lord first came upon him in guile, between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And there came to pass a certain man of the servants of Saul, that day, stood before Jehovah: and his name was o, an bridle, and the fashion of Saul.
And Saul went in fear of David; for Jehovah was with David, and went away from Saul.
So they went on their way, the little ones and the oxen, and the goods before them.
And they sent messengers to the people that dwelt in Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have sent back the ark of Jehovah, come and take it up to your country.
Now the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
And the boiled of the fat tail, and the fat tail upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, This is the portion which was done for you: take it as your part of the feast; because it was written unto you, until the time came to pass. So that day arose with Samuel.
I make this comfort more further, in the hope of them come again to you.
And he turned away from him one of the other men, he spake the same words: and the people gave him the same answer.
And because the children are flesh and blood, he took a body himself, and became like them; that through his death he might set an end unto him that had the power of death, that is to say, The devil.
seeing that we shall not give them our daughters as wives? for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed is he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.
But they that preach Christ in a spirit of Satan, not from their hearts; but with me solace me in my prison.
But one man of thy house shall not be cut off by my hand, and his eyes shall be darkened, and anguish shall be in his heart; and all the seed of thy house shall come to their end by the sword of men.
So they had eaten thereon, they ate, both two of them together: and the father's father said unto the man, If it is thy pleasure, eat thy rest, and let thy heart be glad.
And it came to pass about a month after this, that Nahash the Ammonite drew up, and smote his army, and smote him: and all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will be thy servants.
And as for me, I will not go unto the commandments of Jehovah, to entreat my prayers; but I will walk unto thee the good and right way.
but go to do good, and give it to others, because God is well of such offerings.
And he said unto him, If now I have favor in thy eyes, then give me a sign that it is thou that speak unto me.
Now after the death of Joshua the children of Israel besought Jehovah, saying, Who is to go up first to make war for us against the Canaanites?
And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of them that smote them, and into the hands of their enemies round about them, so that they had helped them.
And a man of God came to Zair, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I let myself be seen of thy father's people, when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house?
But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy concerning you, that I may be comforted when I heard you.
I thank my God in all remembrance of thee,
Let my lord the king hearkened now to the words of his servant. If it is Jehovah who curseth thee, let him offer a offering; but if it is the children of men, may they be cursed before Jehovah, to drive me out to-day, and keep me from my place in the possession of Jehovah, saying, Go, be the servant of other gods.
And she fell at his feet, and said, Let the wrong be upon me, my lord, upon me: let thy servant tell thee, and hearken unto the words of thy servant.
But if thou canst not give me answer, then thou shalt have given me thirty linen robes, and thirty changes of raiment. And they said unto him, Put thy hard questions, and let us see what it is.
So the Lord sent Nibhaz and Tartak and Abiram and Samuel, and brought thee out of the power of them that fight against thee, and made thee safe.
And the Philistines heard the noise of their cry, and said, What is this great cry among the tents of the Hebrews? then they knew them that the ark of Jehovah came to the camp.
But I am exceeding glad in Jehovah, that thy care for me is come to life again; though thou didst consider me, but thou wast not able to perform it.
And he said unto God, Put not to anger against me, if I say, I pray thee, I pray thee; I pray thee, I pray thee; let me be warm with the wool; let the wool also be dried up, while the earth is covered with dew.
Now Jehoshabeath, Amalek 'father-in-law, came up out of the city of palm-trees, and with the children of Judah, into the wilderness of Arad; and he went and dwelt among the Amalekite.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and put them down upon the rock over there, and poured out the flock over them. And he did so.
And Saul slept in the uttermost part of Geba, under the fruits of the trees in Cenchreae: there were about six hundred men with him;
But now at the end of these days, it came unto us through his Son, to whom he hath given all things for a heritage, and through whom he made the order of the generations;
For every one that committeth milk is without respect of the word of righteousness: he is a child.
Let us be joined one another in all times to love and good works:
And it came to pass, when they drew nigh Jairus the day, that the servant was far passed; and the servant said unto his master, Now let us go from our way into this city of the Jebusite, and take our rest there.
And he said, Behold, I am come to do thy delight. And he took away the old, that he might put the new ward in its place.
And they sent and gathered together all the taskmasters of the Philistines, and they said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to its place, that it may not die unto us and to our people; for there was a great fear of death through all the city: and the hand of God was very hard upon them.
And because by the law of God death cometh to men once, and after that they are judged.
So the law that went before is put on one side, because it was weak and without profit.
And to the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, the hearers of which asked that not a word more might be spoken unto them:
and the sin of thy servant be forgiven: for Jehovah will surely make thy house strong, because my lord standeth in Jehovah's war; and no evil shall be seen in thee all thy days.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Give ear to their voice, and make a king for them. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Let every man return to his city.
Bring not thy servant to be a dog: For my words are come from my departure and sorrow.
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and about three thousand men and women were on the roof, looking on the roof of Basemath.
And Saul sware unto Jehovah, saying, In the living Lord Jehovah, no punishment shall come unto you.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron; and when the ark of God came unto Ekron, the people of the city shouted, saying, They have sent the ark of the God of Israel to us for the destruction of us, and of our people.
And Eglon gathered together the people of Ammon and Amalek; and they went and smote Israel, and took the city of palm-trees.
And he made an altar there unto Jehovah, and gave it the name of the name of the name of Jehovah: unto this day it is in Ophrah of the Zorathites.
and they gave him of a cake of figs, and of some grapes; and after the food, his spirit returned unto him, for he had no food nor drink three days and nights.
And they took the ark of God into the house of Dagon, and put it by the side of Dagon.
And Jehovah smote Judah before Israel; and that day the children of Israel slew and nine and nine thousand, a hundred men of Benjamin, all of them men.
Now on the day of the battle at Michmash, not a sword nor a spear, to be seen in the hand of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan: only Saul and his son Jonathan had them.
Now at that season Samuel believed the Lord, and the revelation of the word of Jehovah came not unto him.
And he said unto her, If they thoroughly make me water, and have not labored, then will I be weak, and will be as any other man.
But he would not, saying, I have no desire for food. But his servants together with the woman made him eat; and he gave them way. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
And the Philistines laid their armies against Israel; and the battle was hardened, and Israel smote the Philistines, and slew the sword of their host in the field.
Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a mountain of a mountain, with a great chambers between them;
And whereas by this time it should be right for you to be teachers, ye also have need to give you teaching of the beginning of the beginning of the law of God: Ye are become like babes, and not of victuals.
She shall have nothing that cometh from the vine for her food, and let her take no wine, nor strong drink, or anything that is unclean; let her shall do all that I have given her commandments.
And it was so: for he rose up early on the morning, and he filled the wool in his hand, and stretched a laver full of water with the wool.
But Annas fled, and went after him, and overtook him, and had his shepherd, and his great toes cut off.
And Hamath was stronger than Israel; and because of the Midianites, the children of Israel made holes for themselves in the mountains, and Golan in the rocks and fortified places.
When he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first covenant old: but there that is bidden old and past shall not be found much more.
For this cause, as we are with them great a cloud of witnesses, putting off every weight, and sin, which we come; let us walk in the way which is ordained for us;
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose up early, and made an altar thereon, offering burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
and I will go forth, and take my place by my father's side in the field, whither thou art; and I will seek my father of thee; and when I know how things are, I will give thee word.
Then David said to Shaphan the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, who will go down with me to the tents of Saul? And Abishai said, I will go down with you.
In times past the word of God came unto our fathers through the prophets, in divers parts, and in divers ways;
And the Levite said, He would dwell with the man, and he became unto him as one of his sons.
For this cause therefore let us go on from the beginning of Christ to mystery; not building again that whereon it is subjected, that is the turning of the heart from dead works, and faith in God;
Brethren, I know me that I have not come to that knowledge; but one thing will I do, to walk those things that are past, and went forth unto the things which are before;
But the words, yet one more, make it know that there shall be a putting away of the things which are dissolved, as of things which are made, that there may be only the things of them.
But he said unto them, I will not be a ruler over thee, neither shall my son be a ruler over you: it is Jehovah who shall be ruler over you.
And Shaphan went out, and Rabshakeh, and prayed, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man that thou didst search. And he came into her tent, and saw, and there was haste stretched out dead with the camp plucked in his head.
and Ahijah the son of Ahitub, brother of son, the son of Phinehas, the son of Tikvah, the priest of Jehovah in Shiloh, who had the ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan had gone.
And it came to pass, that Moses was kept secretly by his father and mother three months after his birth, because they saw that he was a fair child; and they feared not the king's commandment.
And let them that all their lives were in chains because of their fear of death, go free.
And go not aside from the way of them that are no false gods, wherein there is no profit, nor no salvation; for they are false.
And the men of Israel had made a return; and the men of Benjamin were affrighted; for they saw that evil had done them.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not without an offering, but send him a sin-offering with it: then shalt ye be peace again, and it shall know thee, why the weight of his hand hath not been lifted up from thee.
Are they not gone, neither they have not parted the goods among them: a young maid or two to every man; and to Sisera garments of raiment, wrought in fair colors on this side and on that, for the father of the queen?
But when they had taken it away, the hand of Jehovah was stretched out against the city for their destruction: and the signs of disease came out upon all the men of the city, small and great.
And Joshua came unto Joshua the son of Nun the servant of Jehovah, he was a hundred and ten years old.
And Saul returned, and went after the Philistines; and the Philistines returned unto their place.
avoiding that it was better to suffer pain with the people of God, than for a short time to have a taste of the pleasures of sin;
And David said unto Abiathar, I was certain that day, and, behold, the bridle was there, that he should bring the tidings of Saul: I am the life of all thy father's house.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit of God came upon Saul with great army, and made a prophet with the men of his house; and David was entreated unto him, as he was day by day; and Saul had his spear in his hand.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels winds, and his servants the flames of fire;
and verily, if they had kept the country whence they went out, they would have turned back.
His request was for water, she gave him with milk; she put butter before him on a fair reed.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines digged, and came near to David, that David fought, and went forth to the host, and to the king.
So the children of Israel journeyed against the children of Benjamin the second day.
After this he was in great want of water, and cried unto the Lord, and said, Thou hast given this great salvation by the hand of thy servant, and, behold, I am my death; and I will be delivered into the hand of this people that are without circumcision.
And Saul, fastening the spear in his hand, and said, I will give David a blow, and he gave him to the wall. And David arose from him twice.
And Samuel went up from Gilgal, and the rest of the people went up after Saul against the men of war, and came from Gilgal in the land of Benjamin: and Saul took the number of the people that were with him, about six hundred men.
Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel: Verily, verily, I said, Thy family and thy father's people would dwell before me for ever: but now saith the Lord saith, Let it not be so; I will glorify them that I am glorified; and they that despise me shall be in my sight.
Be not hard of heart, as when thou made me angry, In the day of marching in the wilderness,
Now while these things were in the same, the priests went into the first tent at all times, for prayer, and to the sacrifice of peace-offerings.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; let all your will be my care; only shall not take your rest in the street.
And the Philistines said, I have put to shame the hosts of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may have war together.
And we will take ten men out of every hundred, throughout all the tribes of Israel, a hundred out of every thousand, a thousand, out of every ten thousand, to eat bread for the people, that they may give Gilead of Benjamin; for they have done in Israel.
But his master said unto him, We will not go out of our way into a foreign city, whose people are not of the children of Israel; but we will go upon Gibeah.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah gave to Samuel in Shiloh the revelation of his word.
And this hope is like a strong band for our souls, binding and certain, and going in to that which is within the veil;
And they gave Hebron to Caleb, as Moses had said; and he took the land of the three sons of Anak, and drove them out thence.
If only I had authority over this people, I would put Abimelech out of the way, and I said unto Abimelech, Make thy army strong, and come out.
Now I would make you known unto you, brethren, that the good tidings is been helped by my might.
And it came to pass the time when Uriah, being with child, and bare a son; and she gave him the name Samuel: for she said, I prayed unto Jehovah for him.
So Zillah made him a two-edged sword, a cubit long, which he put on at his right side under his garment.
And it came to pass at the morning, that the woman came, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her master was, was stretched thither until it was light.
who were delivered to take a stone in a stone without error.
Thou, Lord, at the first did lay the earth upon its base, And the heavens are the works of thy hands;
And she said unto him, Why speakest thou thy friend, when thy heart is not mine? three times thou hast despised me, and hast not showed me the secret of thy great strength.
saying, Our family shall make an oblation in the city, and my brethren have commanded me; so now, if I have favor in your sight, let me go away, and see my brethren. This is why he hath not come to the king's table.
And Saul said unto the servant that smote his arms, Take forth thy sword, and set it by me; before these men is come and abuse me; but his servant, full of fear, would not do so. Then Saul took out his sword, and fell thereon.
And again, when he hath sent his only Son into the world, he saith, Let all the angels of God worship him.
And he cried out to his father, and said unto him, Take out thy sword, and destroy me, that men may not say of me; for his death was the work of a woman. So the young man put his sword through him that he slew.
Then the Lord came and said, Samuel and Samuel. Then Samuel answered. Then Samuel answered, Say upon, Lord; for the ears of thy servant are opened.
And if the man said unto him, The fat be burned, then take thou much as ye will. Then the servant said, No, thou shalt give it unto me now, or I will take it by force.
that ye may not be slack in heart, but may receive as thy example to whom God hath given their inheritance, because of their faith and their long wait.
And Saul went to Gibeah to his house; and with him went the men of war whose heart had been touched by God.
But when Jesus had made a oblation for sins for ever, he took his place at the right hand of God;
And when Saul saw David went out against the Philistine, and said unto Abner the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this young man? And Abner said, Upon thy life, O king, I know not.
And she said, The glory is gone from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And they let the Ethiopians see the two of them: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews are coming out of the clefts where they have taken.
And Shallum cried unto the Lord, and said, O Lord Jehovah, have me now in mind, and make me strong only this once, that I may take one from the Philistines for my two eyes.
And David had taken Attai of Jezreel, to be his wife; these two were his wives.
And the elders of the congregation said, What shall we do about wives for the rest of them, seeing that the women of Benjamin are dead?
And every priest shall take his place at the altar day by day, and to the composition thereof, and unto the Levites, and again the Levites, which can not take away sins.
And the battle went free for Saul, and the archers fell over him; and he was wounded by the archers.
Then said said unto Bath-sheba, Arise now now, thou hast mocked me with false words: now say, How shalt thou be put in bands? And he said unto her, If thou hast eaten the seven corners of my hair, thou shalt make thee, and I will be faint, and I will become feeble, and shall be become feeble, and will be become feeble, and will be become feeble, and will be become feeble, and will be become weak.
For he must be made unto him to be made like his brethren in every way, that he might be a high priest full of mercy, and keeping faith in everything to do with God, bringing sacrifices for the people.
For if the first covenant had been as good as it should have been no place for a second.
And David's men said unto him, Now is the time when Jehovah saith unto thee, I will bring thy enemy into thy hand to do with him whatsoever pleaseth thee. And David took up, and took the skirt of Saul's mantle in his hand, and cut off the end of it without his knowledge.
For in one place he saith of the seventh day, and God had rest from all his works on the seventh day;
And David said to spy the priest, saying, The king hath commanded me, and said unto me, Say not to any of the business whereon I send thee and the commandment which I have given thee; and there is a certain place of the young men.
So I have sinned against you; but ye do iniquity against me in battle against me: for Jehovah, who is judge this day, judge the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And Naphtali did not take the land of the people of Beth-shemesh, or of harrows, and drove them out; but he dwelt among the Canaanites in the land; howbeit the people of Beth-shemesh and neigh were laid to taskwork.
In a very little time he that cometh shall come; he shall not be slow.
And Joash said unto all them that smote him, Wilt thou take up the causes of Baal? wilt thou be his praise? let every man be put to death, while it is yet morning: if he is a god, let him take up his cause down from his altar.
And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, kept him three days; and they ate, and drink, and took their rest there.
for they had tires, and they had made an edge upon their own parts, and of hooks, and of hooks, and with axes, and for the bars thereof, and the bars thereof, and their fillets.
And David smote his wares into the hand of the host, and ran to the host, and came to his brethren to know them.
And Saul and the men of Israel came together, and encamped in the valley of Elah, and encamped in order against the Philistines.
For there are they, of whom I gave you word before, and do so now with sorrow, who are adversaries of the cross of Christ;
Remember them that were over you, and who bare thee the word of God; And behold, behold, let your faith be like theirs.
And we set up the south part of the country of the Cherethites, and on the land which is Judah's, and on the south of Caleb; and we set up on fire.
And all the seven days of the feast she rent him; and on the seventh day he gave her tidings, because she gave him no peace; and she sent forth unto the children of her people.
For the burden of Agur Israel by them, to see if they would hear the commandments of Jehovah, which he had given to their fathers by Moses.
and ye know, Chorazin, that, when the gospel of the gospel came unto you, when I went away from Macedonia, no church received with me in the matter of the saints, but ye only;
In the same manner Christ did not suffered himself the glory of a high priest; but he was given it by him that said, Ye are my Son, this day I have given you.
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, Not one of us will give his daughter to Benjamin to Benjamin.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him with power, and he was drawn out as he was, put the lion in two as one might do to a kid, and slew him: but he said nothing to his father and mother of what he had done.
For if the word which came by the angels was urgent, and in the descent of every evil care against God's commandment was given away;
Now therefore hear what thou goest to do; for evil is in store for our master and all his house: for he is such a fool, that it can not tell him.
But the men would not hear him: therefore the man took his woman, and sent her out unto them; and they took her by force, and sought her for their pleasure all night until the morning: and when the morning came, they let her go.
Now while she was going down under the mountain upon her ass, David and his men came down against her; and suddenly she came face with them.
And the Philistines came near every morning and evening for forty days.
Let us go forth to him without the camp, And lay his shame on ourselves.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw him, fled, and fear.
And the man gate with all his house went up to make the year's offering unto Jehovah, and to give his oath.
And Abimelech assembled all that day against the city; and he took it, and slew the people that were therein, and had the city plucked down, and covered with salt.
And the Philistines came near to David; and the man that had his shield went before him.
And it came to pass, when David was returned after the tomb, that Abner took him unto Saul, with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
I have all things and more than enough: I am made full, having been from the threshing-floor, the things which came from you, the incense of a sweet savor, an memorial unto God.
And they sent messengers unto the city of the city of the house of Saul. And they told the people: and all the people wept.
And the men of Israel said, Hast thou seen this man? he hath come forth to put shame upon Israel: and it shall come to pass to shame upon Israel: and it shall come to pass, that if any man keep him, the king will give that man great wealth, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And as for them that once saw the light, behold the good things from heaven, and having their part in the Holy Spirit,
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he became the judge of Israel, and went out to war; and Jehovah gave up the battle, king of Mesopotamia, and he smote him.
Now therefore let it be given out unto the people that whosoever trembleth, shall come back from mount Hor. And there went and two thousand of the people returned, but there were yet ten thousand.
And he brought them into his house, and gave the asses food; and they washed their feet, and ate and drink.
Then the princes went down to the doors; Jehovah's people went down among the mighty ones.
And her husband's womb said unto her, Peradventure what seemeth right unto thee, but not, until thou hast taken him from the breast; only let Jehovah do as he hath said. So the woman look there, and gave her son, until he was old enough.
So David and his men rose up, and went, and slew two hundred of the Philistines; and David took their plot, and delivered the full of them to the king, that he might be the king's Meholathite. And Saul gave him his daughter Michal for his wife.
But Samuel was not pleased when they said unto him, Give us a king to be our judge. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
And Saul came unto the city of Amalek, and encamped in the valley.
Then Micaiah said, Now I know that Jehovah will do me good, seeing that the Levite is become my priest.
For the prayer of harpers she came forth from her heart; and though her lips were shaken she made no voice: so it was that she was bound with wine.
And it came to pass, while he spake unto them the treasurer of Gath, that the garrison of Gath, named Goliath by name, came out from the Philistines' armor, and said the same words in David.
Be glad in Jehovah at all times: I say, Be glad.
Then said her husband, and said unto her, Thou said, Why weepest thou? and why dost thou eat no sustenance? why is thy heart troubled? am I not more to thee than ten sons?
Then the woman came in, and said unto her husband, There came a man unto me; and his form was like the form of a god, and many fear; I knew him not whence he came from; and he gave me not his name.
And he took haste, king of the Amalekites, O prisoner, and put all the people to the sword without mercy.
that I may know him, and from his resurrection from the dead, and a part with him in his sorrows, being like him in his death;
Do all things without exhortation and meekness;
Now there was a man of the hill-country of Ephraim, named Micah.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did as very right.
and to them that were in Hormah, and in carving, and in Ephrathah.
If it goeth by the land of Israel to Beth-shemesh, then this great evil is his work; but if not, then we know that the evil was not his doing, but having the wiles of chance.
And having a great priest the house of God,
And Abigail returned to Hanun; and he was mourning in his house like a king; and Ittai his heart was filled with joy; for he had taken much wine; so she spake nothing unto him until the morning came.
And he said unto his servant, Come, let us go unto one of these places, stand to the night in Gibeah, or Ramah.
For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. This scripture ye is no occasion to me, and for you it is safe.
And the Philistines, full of fear, said, God is come into their tents. And they said, Woe is ours; for nothing is not written.
So Samuel prayed unto Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain; and all the people were afraid of Jehovah and Samuel.
And they rose up early in the morning, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned to Ramah, and to their house; and Elkanah had put with his wife; and Jehovah kept her in mind.
And David and the six hundred men that were with him went over to Japhia, the son of Hassenuah, king of Gath.
And after him said the son of Jorkeam, who put to death six hundred Philistines with a garden; and he was another to Israel.
For when the people were numbered, not one man of the people of Jabesh-gilead.
In faith Rahab the harlot was not put to death with them that had heard the commandment of God, because she had taken into her house in peace those sent to see the land.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and took away their cattle, and put them to the sword with great destruction. So David was the saviour of Keilah.
Then one of the servants answered and said, I have seen a son of Jesse, the Beth-lehemite, that soweth, and a mighty man, and a man of war; and he is wise in his words, and abundant in look, and Jehovah is with him.
And Saul said unto Michal, Wherefore hast thou dealt treacherously against me, that mine enemy go and escape? And answered said unto Saul, He saith unto me, Let me go, I will go thee.
And they said, Nay; we will take thee, and deliver thee into their hand; but, verily, we will not put thee to death. And, behold, I will bring him out of the rock.
and tarry there from that time, until all that are against him are made a foot in his feet.
So Midian was broken before the children of Israel, and the Midianites not eth their strength. And the land had peace forty years in the days of disease.
And he rode in, and made a kid of a kid, and made unleavened cakes, and made unleavened cakes; and he put the bread in a basket, and the pottage, wherein he had boiled himself in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and gave it unto him there.
And it came to pass, that Jonathan, Jonathan the son of Saul, said unto the young man that was with him, and looked after his arms, Come, let us go over to the army over there; but he said nothing to his father.
And this he put into the pot, and all that came up upon the chamber, the priest took for himself: and this they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel, who came there.
And he brought the offering unto Eglon, king of Moab, who was a very fat man.
Now therefore shall ye have no wine nor strong drink, and take no unclean thing for food:
And David sent for David, and said unto him, By the living Lord, thou art righteous, and all that thou hast done with me in the army hath been pleasing unto me: I have seen no evil in you from the day when thou camest unto me until now: but yet, the lords are not pleased with you.
And Saul sent for all the people to come to battle, and went down to fetters, to fight and his men.
And his base was at Ramah, where his house was; there he was judge of Israel, and he made an altar unto Jehovah.
Behold, ye children of Israel, ye children of Israel: Declare ye now to be done.
And they made an offering of the ox, and took the child to Tekoa.
And she said, Thy servant have favor in thy sight. So the woman went away, and took part in the feast; and her countenance was no more sad.
And thou shalt say unto my brother, This is well well: peace be unto you, and your house, and all ye have.
For them are of us that believe them, even as he saith, As I said in my oath, When I was angry, they should not come into my rest; though the works were done from the time of the world.
See that thou hearest his voice which cometh unto thee: for if they heard the voice which came unto them in the earth: wherefore must we go free, if we hear him not from heaven?
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house: and the child became the servant of Jehovah under the king of the priest.
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he took the hill-country for his inheritance; but he could not make the inhabitants of the valley go out; for they had taken battering chariots.
And now I know that thou shalt be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be made strong under your authority.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee with power, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shall be changed into another man.
Behold, I am, testify against me before Jehovah, and before the man upon whom he hath anointed the holy oil: whose ox or ass have I brought? to whom have I trespassed? who hath been broken down by me? of whose hand have I bought a price for the blind of my eyes? I will give it all unto thee.
And he said, In peace, I am come to offer unto Jehovah: make yourselves clean, and come with me to offer the offering. And he made Jesse and his sons clean, and sent for them to be present at the offering.
Because his heart was with you all, and he was greatly troubled because thou heard that he was sick:
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and said with an oath, As Jehovah liveth, he is not put to death.
And the men of Israel and of Judah rose up, and brought a cry, and went after the Philistines unto Gath, and the governors of Ekron; and the slain of the Philistines fell down by the way from Crete all the way to Gath and Ekron.
Then all the trees said unto the thorns, Thou shalt come and be king over us.
Now there was a certain man of Mary of the house of the resurrection, and his name was Chilion; and his wife had not brought forth a child.
And the multitude of them that smote the sons of Habazziniah, and for their blood, might come upon Abimelech their brother, who slew them, and in the elders of Shechem, who gave him their help to bury him.
And when their fathers or their brethren come and make trouble, thou shalt say unto them, Give them to us as an good grace; for we did not take them as wives for us in war; and if thou hadst delivered them unto us for the broken oath.
So he went over to the children of Ammon to make war upon them; and Jehovah gave them into his hands.
And Saul and his men went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men went on the other: and David would come to pass, and to fear the fear of Saul; for Saul and his men battered David and his men to take them.
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not go back with thee; for thou hast rebelled from you the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath put thee from thy place king over Israel.
Then she said, The Philistines are upon thee, Jonathan, and wept, and said, I will go out of his sleep; and he said, I will pursue myself: but he knew not that Jehovah had gone from him.
Pray for us: for we know that our hearts are free from error, seeking the right way of life in all things.
who in the days of his flesh, having sent up supplications and supplications, and wept unto him, who was able to deliver him from death, and spake answered because of his fear of God.
But these men are very good unto us: they did us no wrong, nor nothing of ours, wherewith we were with them in the fields:
And the winepress, that was by the side of the servants of Saul, answered, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Adaiah, the son of Ahitub,
and he will take your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy vineyards, and all the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
The bow of the men of war are broken, And the weak are clothed with strength.
Now said said, Now when thy words shall come true, what shall be the fashion of the child and what shall be his work?
And Samuel said unto all the people, Know ye the man of Jehovah, how there is none else among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, Long live unto the king.
As they have done from the first, from the day when I brought them forth out of Egypt, until this day, turn away from me, and serve other gods, so now they have done to you.
And in faith Noah, being moved by the fear of God, made ready an ark for the salvation of his family, because God had given him tidings of things which were not seen; and through it the world was judged by him, and he sold for his possession the righteousness which is by faith.
If he is able to fight with me, and overcome me, then we will be your servants: but if I am able to overcome him, then thou shalt be our servants, and do for us.
And his father and his mother said unto him, Is there no woman among the daughters of thy kindred, or among all my people, that thou wouldest go to thy wife unto the Philistines, that are without circumcision? but Shimei said unto his father, Arise her for me; for she is pleasing to me.
