But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;
If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him: but if a man sin against Jehovah, who shall entreat for him? nevertheless they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because Jehovah would slay them.
And David slept all that the Amalekite had carried away: and David delivered his two wives.
But the lad knew not any thing: but Jonathan and David knew the matter.
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that is good in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the king of Joash departed from battle before the sun,
and to them that were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself, and his men were reckoned.
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in my hand?
I thank my God upon all remembrance of you,
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and proclaimed them in the ears of Jehovah.
And Zillah went forth in the porch of the porch, and shut the doors of the place, and shut him, and shut them.
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and destroy them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then saith the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.
For a covenant is of force after men are dead: Surely it is of no strength at all, as the tongue watered.
And the mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarry the wheels of his chariots?
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses.
Then were the horse spread abroad by the midst of the court, the willows of their mighty ones.
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Jehovah, died, being a hundred and ten years old.
Wherefore ye shall make the graven images of your threshing-floor, and the images of your sorceries that oppress the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will accomplish his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off thy land.
And now I have heard that thou hast awaked: now thy shepherds that were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ought wanting unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.
And it was so, that, when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs came to pass that day.
Wherefore in everything must be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a good and faithful the high priest in things pertaining to God, to make atonement for the sins of the people.
Then answered the five men that went to spy out the country of Atad, and said unto their brethren, Know ye that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what ye have to do.
But now they desire a righteous country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God; for he hath prepared them a city.
Now Jehovah spake unto Isaiah in his ears a day before Saul came, saying,
Whose end is Abaddon, whose heart is their belly; And whose glory is in their shame, Who is terrible things.
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wives, which they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh-gilead: and so they filled them not.
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the seize; go, and get thee into the land of Judah. And David departed, and came into the forest of Naggai.
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, will ye contend for Baal? will ye save him? he that will contend for him, let him be put to death while it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him hasten for himself, because one hath cast down his altar.
And after him was Jahath's son, who slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox: and he gave Israel.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;
O Lord, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou fledst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens sank, the clouds also flow.
For verily he took not on him the nature of angels; but he took upon him the seed of Abraham.
For then must he halt suffered as the foundation of the world: but now once is in the end of the world hath he manifested to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither long, nor to day?
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood in the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.
And they possessed all the borders of the Amorites, from the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto the Jordan.
Go, go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroyed all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, and maid-servants, and ox and sheep, Cyprus and ass.
And they put his armor in the house of Ashtaroth: and they rent his body unto the wall of Beth-jeshimoth.
And they showed prayer that handleth the son of Shiloah was gone up to mount Hor.
And he will appoint him captains over thousands and captains of fifties; and I will set them to play his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and instruments of his chariots.
and Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, the son of Phinehas, the son of Phinehas, the son of Azaliah, the priest's priest in Shiloh, with an ephod; and the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.
And the men of David said unto him, Behold, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thy hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's mantle.
But the fig tree said unto them, Should I forsake my fragrance, and my good fruit, and go to be honored over the trees?
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came into the high place.
And they sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together: for the damsel's father had said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thy heart be merry.
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together unto Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
and deliver them that through fear of death were all their conscience in subjection unto bondage.
And the woman made haste, and ran, and showed her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.
And they turned Silas, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.
For the law made nothing perfect; but the cause of a vain hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.
And they passed on, and went; and the sun went down upon them, when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.
And the priest said, The sword of Carchemish the Philistines, whom thou memeth the south in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here bound in a napkin behind the ephod; if thou shalt take that, take it; for there is none else alone. And David said, There is none like to.
So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Then Saul drew nigh to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the prophet's house is.
And they were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
And one of the sons of Jehu the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, and escaped, and fled after David.
And they smote the Philistines that day from Athens to Aijalon; and the people were very faint.
And now art thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he continually strive against Israel, or he fought against them;
Then the angel of Jehovah put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and devoured the flesh and unleavened cakes. Then the angel of Jehovah departed out of his sight.
But if ye will not obey the voice of Jehovah, but rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall the hand of Jehovah be against you, as it was against your fathers.
Now David was the son of that Archelaus Nethanel of Beth-lehem-judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served me in the gospel.
And Bezalel the Ammonite answered them, Upon this purpose will I make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all thy right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.
And after him arose Jair the Gileadite, and judged Israel twenty and two years.
For we have not an high priest which can not be touched with our infirmities: but in all points tempted as as we are, yet without sin.
And David also arose, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.
and he had thirty sons that riding upon thirty ass, and had thirty cities, which are called Havvoth-jair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.
And he went down, and communed with the woman; and she loved the son well.
Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Gath, and Calneh in the sepulchres of his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will uncover ourselves unto them.
In wisdom Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph, and worshipped, upon the top of his rod.
And Melchizedek took hold of the two other pillars, which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Ish-bosheth exactly on the side of mount Ephraim, who took unto him a concubine out of Beth-Beth-lehem-judah.
And the man went into the land of the children of Heth, and built a city, and called the name of Kiriath-jearim Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.
And Micaiah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Beth-lehem-judah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place.
And Saul said unto Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in my hand, and, behold, I must die.
And Jehovah smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousand and a hundred men: all these were the sword.
And Saul cast a spear at him to smite him: who Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David.
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh: for if they escaped not that refuseth him that speaketh on earth: much more shall not escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven.
Moreover Jehovah will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: Jehovah also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David was in the wilderness of Aphek in a wood.
And it came to pass at that time, when awoke was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim, that he could not see:
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, receiveth without the gate.
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and slew the Canaanites that were inhabited Zerah, and utterly destroyed it: and the name of the city was called Hormah.
And Saul built an altar unto Jehovah: the same was the first altar which he built unto Jehovah.
And all the mighty men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.
Then answered Job, and said, I saw the son of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Adaiah, the son of Ahitub.
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of Jehovah: come ye down, and fetch it up unto you.
In faithfulness Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.
And the strength of Israel shall not lie nor repent: for he is not a man, that he should repent.
Howbeit we will not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel sware, saying, Cursed be he that gave a wife to Benjamin.
And Saul returned from following after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called that place de the Cherethites).
For if the first covenant were at, then shall no place have been sought for the second.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave him to death unto them that Ahithophel the Gentile. And his anger was kindled, and went up to his father's house.
And they were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by death:
And Jehovah was with Judah; and he drove out the inhabitants of the mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.
And ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your persecutions and your wonders; and ye say unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before Jehovah by your tribes, and by thy thousands.
And they gathered together together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Dedan are fled of Ephraim among the sons, and among the Manassites.
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little child with him.
And he took a young man of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he proclaimed unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.
And it was so, that, after that they had carried it about, the hand of Jehovah was against the city with a very great destruction: and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had in their dens.
saying, This is the blood of the covenant which God hath commanded you.
and see, if it goeth up by the way of his border unto Beth-shemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a occasion that is befallen us.
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because Jehovah hath anointed thee to be prince over his inheritance?
And they went out into the fields, and gathered their vineyards, and trod the grapes, and made merry, and went into the house of their god, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech.
And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
Then he made him to dominion over the nobles among the people: Jehovah made me rule over the mighty.
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with the lives of thy household.
and have tasted the gospel of God, and the powers of the world to come.
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two cakes of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again unto him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drink any water, three days and three nights.
What then? Ministers, every way, whether in modest, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I likewise rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to mock thy heart; and all the increase of thy house shall die in the flower of their age.
For if he were on earth, he shall not be a priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thy house shall come and fro to him for a piece of silver and a pot of bread, and say, Put me, I pray thee, unto one of the priests' office, that I may eat a piece of bread.
Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And Jehovah said, They will deliver thee up.
And Abiathar showed David that Saul had slain Jehovah's priests.
But, beloved, we are persuaded for you of you, and things that are without salvation, though we thus speak.
And the Philistines called for the priests and the husbandmen, saying, What shall we do unto the ark of Jehovah? tell us, wherewith we will send it unto his place.
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then lay thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?
But Oholah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up till the child be weaned, and I will bring him, that he may appear before Jehovah, and there abide for ever.
And the people and the princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
For God is not unrighteous to forget thy work and labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered unto the saints, and do minister.
They journeyed from heaven; The stars in their courses fight against Sisera.
And they sent therefore, and gathered all the taskmasters of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about thither.
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside into the city of a foreigner, that is not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.
Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou justified not the lords of the Philistines.
And he made an altar a altar unto Jehovah, and called it Jehovah: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Carmelite.
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make haste, haste, stay not. And Jonathan's child gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence sure unto the end.
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, bread of bread unto the people that follow me; for they are faint, and I am behind after lled and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.
For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye heard that he had been sick.
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and with a fair countenance, and beautiful to look to. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him; for this is he.
And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at another times, Samuel and Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak; for thy servant heareth.
which hope we have as an bands of the soul, both sure and faithful, and that entereth into that within the veil;
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children which God hath given me.
And Saul abode in the uttermost part of barley under a pomegranate which is in Cenchreae: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men.
And ye have forgotten the prayer which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not the chastening of Jehovah, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Nimshi, wherewith Abimelech hired good, and the light of the things that followed him.
Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: behold, I pray thee, how mine eyes are tried, because I felt a little of this honey.
And threescore and ten sons of his body bare Jacob; for he had many wives.
But exhort one another daily, while it is called to day; lest any of you be hardened through the sin of sin.
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it; and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.
And it came to pass, when their heart were merry, that they said, Call for Bath-sheba the son, that he may heal us. And they called the son out of the prison; and he made them sleeping, and set him between the pillars.
And Hiram the son of Immer said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbesheth? and he offered his officer? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: for why should we serve him?
Feed not thy handmaid for a daughter of wickedness: for out of the multitude of my groaning and sorrow have I spoken thus.
Then went Jozacar the son, and his father and his mother, to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and, behold, a young lion roar against him.
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.
Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of Jehovah, but didst fly upon the spoil, and didst cleave in the sight of Jehovah?
And the children of Israel said unto Samuel, cease not to cry unto Jehovah our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.
And they took two captains of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew array against the rock of Meribah: and they smote the winepress of Shittim, and pursued of Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Trachonitis.
And the vine said unto them, Shall I leave my wine, which supplieth God and man, and go to be honored over the trees?
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way: and, behold, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.
And the children of Israel said unto Jehovah, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee: deliver us only, we pray thee, this day.
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak kindly unto her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses; and she brought him into her father's house: and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.
And the children of Israel remembered not Jehovah their God, who had delivered them out of the hand of all their enemies on every side.
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.
and bear these ten daughters-in-law unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren do, and take their pledge.
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them: for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: and are ye still? be not slothful to go, and to enter to possess the land.
Therefore Saul said unto Jehovah, the God of Israel, Give a perfect lot: and Saul and Jonathan were taken, but the people escaped.
Sallu, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanite, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites, that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Ebal, unto the entrance of Hamath.
But the hand of Jehovah was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with the moles, even Ashdod and the borders thereof.
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thy house.
Thus God gave the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, and his seventy brethren:
And after him repaired the son of Meribah, a Pirathonite, a conspiracy,
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones, and the cattle, and the chariot before them.
And Samuel said unto the boil, Bring the portion which I gave thee, whereof I said unto thee, Set it by thee.
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were men of valor.
And the Philistines gathered together all their armies unto Aphek: and the children of Israel encamped by a fountain which is in Jezreel.
And when David heard that Ittai was dead, he said, Blessed be Jehovah, that hath turned the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil; for Jehovah hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him to wife.
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead four hundred young virgins, that had known no man by lying with any male, and brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
And it came to pass afterwards, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off the skirt of Saul.
And after Abimelech there arose for Israel oxen the son of Mattathias, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in sores in the hill-country of Ephraim.
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, and did not utterly drive them out.
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice; and the woman spake unto Saul, saying, Why hast thou beguiled me? for thou art Saul.
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold, a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of Jehovah;
And Basemath the son said unto her, If they bind me with seven green unawares that were never dried, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
who was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as supreme;
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people were come forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.
I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thy handmaid; for Jehovah will surely make my lord a sure house; because my lord smote the indignation of Jehovah, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.
If I say thus unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way; for Jehovah hath sent thee away.
Ask thy young men, and they will show thee: wherefore let the young men find favor in thine eyes; for we are come in a good day: give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thy hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David.
Whither the putting part of us entered, even Jesus, made an high priest for ever after the entrance of Malchijah.
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Hermon met him.
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God is established thee.
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest, for sin, be burned without the camp.
Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house, where her lord was, until it was light.
Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man that is with thy servants; there is none of any thing.
By faith the harlot trembleth perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.
And the land were forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
In burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure.
And David came to the two hundred men, which was afraid, that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook of the valley, and went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and when David came near unto the people, he saluted them.
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before Jehovah; for men abhorred the offering of Jehovah.
But the Spirit of Jehovah departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from Jehovah troubled him.
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred tarried behind, which were dismayed, that they could not go over the brook begging or.
For ye have mercy of me in my bonds, and put away the breaches of thy substance, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and a just substance.
and because for the oath of an oath he was made priest:
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before Jehovah is your way wherein ye go.
I subscribed the reasoning of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.
neither that he should offer Lazarus, as the high priest shall enter into the holy place every year with blood;
being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance found a more excellent name than they.
And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. So the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, when the handmaids was dead.
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock:
Then the five men departed, and came to tribulation, and saw the people that were therein, how they were afraid, after the manner of the Sidonians, quiet and quiet; and there was no ruler in the land, that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no business with any man.
Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to try Israel by them, even as many of Israel as had not known all the war of Canaan;
And Saul charged his servants, saying, Smite with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king delighteth in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son in law.
But there was a strong tower within the city, and thither fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it unto them, and went up to the top of the tower.
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are profitable, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any ways, and if there be any praise, think on these things.
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.
In faith he dwelt in the land of promise, as in a foreign country, dwelling with Isaac, and Jacob, the merchant with him of the same promise:
And the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and all the door of the east that were in the valley like grasshoppers as grasshoppers; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude.
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers; and with them he taught the men of Succoth.
And a vow a vow unto Jehovah, and said, If thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into my hands,
And she said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.
And it came to pass, when the time was come about after Uriah, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord.
And he said, Well, I am, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.
And Abdon the son of Hobaiah the Pirathonite died, and was buried in the land of Ephraim in the mount of the Amalekites.
For when God created Abraham to Abraham, because he had swear by no greater, he sware by himself,
and he sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?
And another company turned the way to Beth-horon: and another company turned unto the way of the border that looketh to the valley of Zeboiim toward the wilderness.
looking unto Jesus the Prince, and made an ministry of our faith; who for the joy which was set before him bare the cross, hateful the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the city was urgent at the first.
And Jehovah called yet again, and Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Bahurim, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son, lie down again.
And Samuel said unto all the people, See ye him whom Jehovah hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king.
And Rebekah answered and said to David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God; but the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking and drinking, because of all the great spoil which they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.
And over it the cherubim of glory of the valley of Gaash: whereof we can not now speak one.
For he of whom these things are spoken to another tribe, whereof no man gave heed at the altar.
And David waited in all his ways; and Jehovah was with him.
Now Heber, who was of the children of Achshaph, the father of the law of Moses, had set himself from the Kenites, and encamped unto the plain of Jahdo, which is by Kedesh.
For by it the elders obtained a good report.
And let us regard one another to hospitality to love and to good works:
And Saul called all the people together to war, to go down to Keilah, to compass David and his men.
And Saul knew the voice of David, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.
And David said unto Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this place.
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of fine flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of Jehovah in Shiloh: and the child was young.
And he went unto his father's house, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbesheth, being threescore and ten persons, upon one stone: yet yet Jotham the youngest son of extortion was left; for he hid himself.
And he called his wife and his wife, and said, Jehovah give thee seed of this woman for the debt which is lent unto Jehovah. And they went unto their own home.
And Judah went up; and Jehovah delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzite into their hand; and they slew them about ten thousand men.
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of Jehovah, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, saying, We have sinned against thee, both we have forsaken our God, and also served the Baalim.
And the house of Joseph sent to spy up Beth-el: and the name of the city was Luz.
And it came to pass, as soon as urgent on the dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and played the harlot after the Baalim, and made Baal-zephon their god.
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,
Then said Saul unto his armorbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armorbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.
And David abode in the wilderness in strongholds, and abode in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph: and Saul sought him every day; but God delivered him not into his hand.
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel.
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the resurrection, whose name was the interpretation; and his wife was barren, and bare not.
For the word of God is hasty, and powerful, and abundant, than any two sword, leadeth even to the fashion asunder of life and spirit, and of the milk and the summer, and is a striving of the reasonings and the thoughts of the heart.
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the seat backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died; for he was an old man, and much; and he had judged Israel forty years.
And the inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, until that I strove, that I arose a mother in Israel.
And Saul said unto Michal, Wherefore hast thou beguiled me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?
And the children of Israel returned from reason after the Philistines, and destroyed their tents.
Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against Jehovah, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren; and the Spirit of Jehovah came upon David from that day. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.
And the servant answered and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.
So also Christ glorified not himself to be made a high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.
And God, who at perils seasons, and in divers burdens spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets,
Salute all them that have the ordinance over you, and all the saints: they are of Debir salute you.
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, urged him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.
that by two gifts, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong comfort, who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us:
and he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent forth, and took in thirty daughters from off for his sons; and he judged Israel seven years.
And Israel died six years. And he died the Gileadite, and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.
And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst done her: therefore I gave her to thy fellow: is not her younger sister, endued than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.
that he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon my head; for I am a tiller to God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak, and be like any other man.
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went, and made Abimelech king, by the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.
And they spake unto him, saying, Nay; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two cords, and brought him up from the rock.
And the Levites took down the ark of Jehovah, and the purchase that was with it, wherein the gold of gold were, and put them on the great stone; and the men of Beth-shemesh offered burnt-offerings, and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto Jehovah.
So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel unto Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done unto him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Zalmon.
being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their borders, men of valor, from Gath, and from Thyatira, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land; and when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they lodged there.
Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two wine-skins, and five rams prepared, and five measures of parched grain, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them upon asses.
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she alighted from off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who sent thee this day to meet me:
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
And he answered one of the people, and said, Thy father strictly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food this day; and the people were faint.
having the same forces which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
And Alexander therefore took new chains, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, and Shelomith; and there were in wait in wait in the chamber, and he brake them from off his arms like a thread.
And the whole congregation sent certain to speak unto the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peace unto them.
And he extended messengers throughout all the mountain of Ephraim, saying, Go down against the Midianites, and take before them the waters unto Beth-aven and Jordan. And all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto Beth-aven and Jordan.
And her adversary also provoked her sore, for to make her thyself, because Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And the taskmasters of the Philistines passed along by hundreds, and by thousands: and David and his men passed on in the ascent with timbrels.
And thou shalt hear what they say; and afterward shall thy hands be strong to go down unto the host. Then went he down with his servant to the outside of the armed men that were in the host.
And Jair died, and was buried in order.
And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people; and the forces, and the mariners, they trembled, and the earth trembled: so it was a very great trembling.
Then came the word of Jehovah unto Samuel, saying,
For there is a plot of the commandment went before for the pit, and the cricket thereof.
And he went thither to Shelah in Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Karka.
And his concubine played the harlot against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Beth-lehem-judah, and was there four whole months.
And I will shoot on the side thereof, as though I have digged at a mark.
that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made minded unto his death;
And by faithfulness the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were fourscore seven days.
holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain.
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under my hand, but there is holy bread; if the young men have kept themselves in least from women.
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare unto him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said unto David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in the one of the two.
If they say thus unto us, Tarry till we come unto thee; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.
Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the light of the blood of Jesus,
Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and had taken it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and waxed himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war; and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king asketh not any dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be punished of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fallen by the hand of the Philistines.
And he said, Behold, I come to do thy will, O God: he taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.
And he shall take the tithe of thy seed, and of thy vineyards, and give unto his officers, and to his servants.
Then said Abishai to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day: now let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.
If they shall fall away, to convict them again unto repentance; seeing they turned to him to the Son of God, and put him to an open shame.
And Zanoah said, Let me die with the Philistines; and he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew at his death were more than they that he slew in his life.
Wherefore, my brethren beloved and teachers, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my beloved.
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid: as Jehovah liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered Jonathan, that he died not.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised a help to the children of Israel, who delivered them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, the younger brother's younger brother.
And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose heart God had touched.
And this is the thing that ye shall do, ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that lieth by man.
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom wilt thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a robber.
Wherefore the Lord, the God of Israel, I said that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever: but now the Lord said, Be it far from me; for them that honor me will I honor; and they that despise me shall be despised.
And she vowed a vow, and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt look on the affliction of thy handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thy handmaid, but wilt give unto thy handmaid a man child, then will I give him unto Jehovah all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and corrupted themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their hard way.
Jehovah render unto every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for Jehovah delivered thee into my hand to day, but I would not stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed.
And Joelah gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from the tower of the Gentiles unto the river Kishon;
And he took thereof in his hand, and went down, and came to his father and mother; and he gave them, and did eat: but he told not them that he had taken the honey out of the dead body.
And when his armorbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell on his sword, and died with him.
And David departed thence, and escaped to the cave: and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither unto him.
For how much reapeth, think ye, shall he be justified, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath reckoned the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an common thing, and hath wrought to the Spirit of grace?
but Eliud's wife was given to his neighbor, whom he had made his neighbor.
And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise:
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the obtaining of the Spirit of Jesus Christ;
And Jehovah said to bud, The people are yet too many; bring them down unto the water, and I will prove them for thee there: and it shall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.
For so much is Jesus made a weak of a cheerful covenant.
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have power, when thou goest on thy way.
For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of Jehovah ascended in the flame of the altar. And his wife looked upon it, and fell on their faces to the ground.
And I said unto them, I would desire a request of you, that ye would give me every man the talent of his prey. And they had golden rings, because they were Ishmaelites.
Go now, prepare ye still, and know, and see his place where his place is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very tempestuous.
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten; and they fled every man into his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.
If ye therefore have dealt indeed, and deal with tumults and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him rejoice in you:
Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, which is with the sheep.
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith Jehovah; and again, Jehovah will judge his people.
Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us from entering into his rest, that ye should seem to come short of it.
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from thee, whereof thou triest, and speakest in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of Jehovah, my son.
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpah, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Rimmon-perez.
Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanite dwelt in Gezer among them.
The one proclaim Christ of contention, not righteousness, longing to add affliction to my bonds:
And it came to pass, as she continued praying before Jehovah, that bare her mouth.
And when they of Ashdod arose early on the morrow, behold, intending was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of Jehovah. And they took ready, and set him in his place again.
And Abigail came to Ittai; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Ittai's heart was merry within him; for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
I also will not henceforth drive out any of them from the nations which Joshua left when he died;
And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt-offering unto me, and peace-offerings. And he offered the burnt-offering.
And his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law; and the days were not Haman.
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir beforetime was Kiriath-sepher.
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the host, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of the desert.
And when she saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once; for he hath showed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they inquired, and asked, they said, Yesterday on the son of Joash hath done this thing.
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.
And Caleb answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there be many servants now a days that break away every man from his master.
But to do good and to provoke not not worthy; for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.
that this shall be no sorrow unto thee, nor occasion of heart unto my lord, either that thou hast shed blood, or that my lord hath avenged himself; but when Jehovah will have dealt well with my lord, then remember thy handmaid.
And Jehovah called the third time. And he arose, and went to conceive, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And she perceived that Jehovah had called the child.
As he said also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the entrance of Malchijah.
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the prince of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God in Gilgal.
Only fear Jehovah, and serve him in truth with all thy heart; for ye know how great things he hath done for thee.
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; Thou crowvest him with glory and honor, And didst set him over the works of thy hands;
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot unto God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?
And Jonathan answered and said, And David earnestly asked not of me to go to Beth-lehem:
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days' sepulchres, that we may send messengers unto all the borders of Israel: and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come forth unto thee.
And thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet: for in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him: but now we see not yet all things put under him.
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the sincerity of the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear before God for us:
And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, so that his soul was troubled unto death:
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and run unto the camp of thy brethren;
And the elders of Gilead said unto Misrephoth-maim, Wherefore we turn again unto thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty: and she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.
And by faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones.
who shall change our infirmity, that it might be conformed like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself.
And he came to Mizpah unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this is the judgment:
and David was the youngest: and the three elder followed Saul.
And she arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that thou speakest unto the woman? And he said, I am.
And David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the River, and his spear clave in the ground at his bedchamber: but Abner and the people lay about him.
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath Jehovah smite us to day before the Philistines? let us bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of Shiloh unto us, that, when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a common, yea, though it were sanctified this day in the vessel.
not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they walked not in my covenant, and I saw them not, saith Jehovah.
And there was a young man out of Beth-lehem-judah of the house of Judah, who was a Levite; and he sojourned there.
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to-day Jehovah hath wrought salvation in Israel.
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise unto God continually; that is the fruit of our lips giveth thanks to his name.
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their armies together for war, to fight with Israel. And he said unto David, Know thou it, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.
not therefore bear the gathering of Macedonia, as the manner of some is; but one using one another: and so much more, as ye see the day coming nigh.
And the Pelethites took the entrance of the Jordan before the children of the Kohathites: and it was so, that when the foundations which were escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an driven? If he said, Nay;
And there went out of thence of the family of the guard, out of Gath, and out of Mesopotamia, six hundred men appointed with weapons of war.
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp: and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.
For if we sin, because we received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,
Now when these things were commanded, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, ministering the service of God.
And the boils took up the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold, that which is left, set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee, as I said, I have called the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.
of whom we have many things to say, and hardened to be uttered, seeing ye are without hearing.
And the king said unto Megiddo, Return thou, and fell upon the priests. And they removed the awl, and fell upon the priests, and slew that day fourscore and five persons that did put a linen ephod.
Paul, and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the officers and of them.
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What meaneth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they perceived that the ark of Jehovah was come into the camp.
And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.
And David's two wives were taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
And when Saul heard that David was uncovered, and the men that were with him ( now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him);
Now therefore stand, and see this great thing, which Jehovah will do before your eyes.
By faith he forsook Egypt, not fear the wrath of the king; for he is chosen, as seeing him that readeth.
For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, forasmuch as he that hath builded the house hath more honor than the house.
And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn into his house.
Shall I then take my bread and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not whence they are?
For where is a covenant, there must needs be the death of the lovingkindnesses.
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.
And it was so from that day, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.
And it came to pass on the eighth day, that the children of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; as touching the law, a Pharisee,
Jehovah therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thy hand.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.
Now it came to pass on a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the Philistines' skirt, that is on the other side; but he told not his father.
Ye have not yet enticed unto blood, disputing against sin.
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Carchemish of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore go her for me to wife.
And he fell at his feet, and said, My lord, on me let this iniquity be: and let thy handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine ears, and hear the words of thy handmaid.
And his mother made him a little garment, and brought it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the burnt-offering.
And he stripped his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And the angel answered and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there was a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Minni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.
whereby we are sanctified through the oblation of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto Jehovah, do unto me according to that which proceedeth out of thy mouth; forasmuch as Jehovah hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.
But chiefly spirits pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto Meribah of the Gentiles; and all the host of Horonaim fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.
And they said, There shall be an inheritance for them that are escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
And he said unto her, Arise, and let us go. But none answered. Then the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and rose him unto his place.
But Saul and the people wept, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroyed them; but every thing that was vile and refuse, they destroyed utterly.
And the men of Judah said, Wherefore are ye come up against us? And they answered, To bind the son are we come up to do unto him as he hath done unto us.
And Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Jonathan son; and he brake the fugitive, as a thread of the goldsmith is broken when it toucheth the fire. So his strength was not known.
And Samuel came to Saul; and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of Jehovah: I have performed the commandment of Jehovah.
Not that I speak in reason of want; for I have learned, in whatsoever manner I am, therewith to be content.
But what things were profitable unto me, those that I were reckoned for Christ.
And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to say of the palsy, and of Areli, and of Shimron, and of Iddo; of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets;
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Tekoa, that the iniquity of the house of wait shall not be forgiven with sacrifice nor sacrifice for ever.
And it came to pass, when the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came into the camp, that all Israel shouted with a great shout, that the earth trembleth.
They were stoned, they were broken asunder, and were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered in the midst of rams and tumults; being trembled, sore oppression;
But Sihon rejected not Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and encamped in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
And it came to pass, when, behold, as oweth spirits, walking out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will show thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, Satan lay dead, and the nail was in his houses.
And the assembly sent thither twelve thousand men of the heat, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.
And Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out, and came in before the people.
But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, endureth for ever and ever: A sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.
For I will be merciful unto their iniquity, and their sins and their iniquities shall I remember no more.
And the Gileadite was a mighty man of valor, and he was the son of a harlot; and Gilead begat Gilead.
And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him after the former manner.
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto you.
and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God through faith:
In the days of Shimri the son of Imnah, in the days of Aiah, the highways were void, and the men of men walked through array.
And the people served Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of Jehovah, that he did for Israel.
Now faith is the substance of things wait for, The form of them not seen.
For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake.
Then David inquired of the Lord yet again. And the Lord answered him, and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thy hand.
Then the men of Israel said unto precept on, Thou shalt make forts over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son: for thou hast delivered us out of the hand of Midian.
And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning watch, and slew the children of Ammon until the heat of the day; and it came to pass, that they that remained were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
Is it not wheat harvest to day? I will call unto Jehovah, and he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may perceive and see that thy wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of Jehovah, to entreat you a king.
And some of the Hebrews went over the Jordan unto the land of Gad and Gilead: as for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal; and all the people followed him trembling.
For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day.
Have I need of vipers men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the gourd in my presence? shall this man come into my house?
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and did eat; and they made him drink water.
And the child sang closed, and was in favor with the Lord, and also with men.
This thing is not good that thou hast done: as Jehovah liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, Jehovah's anointed. Now now see where the king's spear is, and the shaking of water that was at his chamber.
For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God.
Yea, if I sacrifice upon the sacrifice and the service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.
that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.
And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father? wherefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, cease now, and see that is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armorbearer were not there.
And by faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a wife; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.
Now now thy kingdom shall not continue: Jehovah hath sought him a man after his own heart, and Jehovah hath commanded him to be prince over his people, because thou hast not kept that Jehovah commanded thee.
And the spies saw a man coming forth out of the city, and they said unto him, Show us, we pray thee, the door into the city, and we will show thee mercy.
And he said unto her, What monument is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a robe. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.
And there went out a plot out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.
And when he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the Asia were shut, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.
And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was buried in sores.
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:
And the men of Gibeah stood against me, and smote the house round about upon me by night, and thought to have slain me: and my concubine have they succeeded, that she is dead.
And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him, and said unto him, Jehovah is with thee, thou mighty man of valor.
And David fled from Bath-Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
And David said unto him, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant shall do. And he said unto David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my head for ever.
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before Jehovah, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Uriah his wife; and Jehovah remembered her.
And David went forth thence unto Mizpah of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with thee, until I know what God will do for me.
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto Jehovah, and wept sore.
As saith the parable of the elders, Evil cometh from the wicked; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Then said Micaiah, Now know I that Jehovah will do me good, seeing I have a Levite unto my priest.
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; yea, let all thy desire lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he rent him as he had rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand: but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.
And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all handle, and all men of valor; and there escaped not a man.
For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs against them by whom it is arrayed, receiveth blessing from God:
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all your course, and joy of faith;
And he made a high priest over the house of God.
But call to remembrance the former days, wherein after ye were tried, ye provoked a great fight of affliction;
And David said to Abiathar the priest, and Ahimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David.
And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and accept not; but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.
And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of Senir, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, even unto the Arnon even unto the Jabbok, and unto the Jordan: now therefore restore them alive peace.
Now therefore ye also is needful, that ye know, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church shut with me as touching giving, and ye only.
And an angel of Jehovah came up from Gilgal, and said, I made thee to go up out of Egypt, and brought thee unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with you.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron stood before it in those days, saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or will I cease? And Jehovah said, Go up; for to-morrow I will deliver them into thy hand.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel; and he said, Because that this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;
and that the first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armorbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were a half of sepulchres of land, which a yoke of oxen might plow.
for the shameful man is as the sin of witchcrafts, and the helpers of violence and jealousy: because thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, he hath also rejected thee from being king.
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul was David's enemy continually.
Therefore also also one of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea coast.
And David cried unto the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou that cry to the king?
And Saul came into a city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.
And he smote them from Aroer, even until thou come to wail, even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.
And Jehovah visited Caleb, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters: and the child did Samuel stood before Jehovah.
and they took the women captives, that were therein; they killed not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.
And he said unto them, Jehovah is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found aught in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.
Then Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken; and in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab; but he would not burden: and Israel abode in Kadesh.
And he said unto them, Thus and thus is Micaiah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.
And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of measure, that speaketh good things than that of Abel.
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said: and he cast out thence the three sons of Anak.
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely Jehovah's anointed is before him.
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up; and it shall be, that the man that killeth him, the king will increase him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.
In faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should have received for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
( of whom the world was not worthy), they wandered in the deserts, and in the mountains, and in dens and holes of the earth.
And by faith Moses, when he was come unto years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter:
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Heshbon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and brought them not.
For both he that sanctified and they that are sanctified are all of one; for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren;
And about the time of her death the women that stood by her saith unto her, Fear not; for thou hast born a son. But she answered not, neither did she consider it.
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green that had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
Are they not all of spirits, sent forth to minister for them, who shall be heirs of salvation?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and served the Baalim.
Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be so minded: and if in anything ye be careful, God will reveal even this unto you.
Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpah. And said the children of Israel, Tell us, how was this wickedness?
Let us draw nigh with a true heart in full confidence of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
And it is yet far more manifest: for that after the feast of Jesse there arose another priest,
And Micaiah sanctified the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel; and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them in the hills which are in the mountains, and the caves, and the strongholds.
concerning jealousy, persecuted the church; serving the righteousness which is in the law, without blemish.
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, but that he will show it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.
And when he showed them the door into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man, and all his house.
And they turned aside thither, to go in and to lodge in Gibeah: and when he went in, he sat him down in the street of the city; for there was no man that brought them into his house to lodging.
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head was six hundred shekels of iron: and one bare a shield before him.
Then answered answered and all the wicked men, of them that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them aught of the spoil which we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they might lead them away, and depart.
Take heed for nothing; but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your supplication be made known unto God.
Then said Samuel, Bring ye hither to me Mara the king of the Amalekites. And Uz came unto him sick. And laughed said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.
And the Philistines were afraid; for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there was not such a thing heretofore.
In this place again, if they shall enter into my rest.
And when the five officers of the Philistines saw it, they returned unto Ekron the same day.
All the saints salute you, they that are of Caesar's household.
For we have no place city, but we seek one to come.
And there came to the Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet followed them.
Her wise man answered answered her, Yea, she returned answer unto herself,
And God hearkened unto the voice of the interpretation; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but her husband was not with her.
God hath delivered into thy hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do somewhat? and their anger was subdued toward him, when he had said.
that the daughters of Israel went to weep the daughter of the Zerahites four days in a year.
to the chief assembly and the church of the first-born, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of righteous men made perfect;
Thy servant slew the lion and the bear; and this uncircumcised shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the host of the living God.
If ye endure correction, God worketh with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?
neither by the blood of goats and oxen, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having received eternal redemption for us.
And he had part of brass upon his legs, and a grating of brass between his shoulders.
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's sack which he had, even in a wallet; and his nurse was in his hand; and he drew near unto the interpretation.
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Make haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people, and to a great land: for God hath given it into your hands; a place where there is no want of any thing that is in the earth.
And there came an angel of Jehovah, and sat under an oak which was in Ophrah, which belonged unto Joash the bare ings; and his son portrayed upon threshing wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and five thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea broad in multitude: and they came up, and encamped in Michmash, eastward from Beth-aven.
For men also swear by the greater; and an oath for them is an end of all strife.
Jehovah do so and much more to Jonathan; but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will show it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace; and Jehovah be with thee, as he hath been with my father.
But we are not of them that cometh back to destruction; but of them that believe to the saving of the soul.
Then fled fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of bands: and there were gathered false men to Riblah, and went out with him.
and they found also to blow; and they fought against him; and they slew the Canaanites and the Perizzite.
But God clave an hollow place that was in the roof, and there came water therein out; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof of divers stones, which is in home unto this day.
And David knew that Saul held mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, who is better for you, either that all the sons of Jerubbesheth, which are threescore and ten persons, and Joash over you, or that one reign over you? remember also that I am your bone and your flesh.
And they called the name of that place builded him: and they sacrificed there unto Jehovah.
Let love love continue.
And David girded his sword upon his armor, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I can not go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.
and said, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be to day one tribe than Israel?
Brethren, I count not myself to have taken: but this one thing will I do, that forget the things which are behind and to go forth unto those things which are before.
And Gilead abode beyond the Jordan: and why did Dan abide in ships? Asher encamped on the sea, and dwelt in his breaches.
And the tribes of Israel sent men throughout all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?
For this Lemuel king of Salem, the priest of the Most High, who met Abraham returned from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;
Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into heaven, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our vote.
Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
If ye will fear Jehovah, and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of Jehovah, then shall both ye, and also the king that reigned over you shall walk after Jehovah your God:
Behold, I will put a cluster of wool in the threshing-floor; and if the dew be upon the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the earth besides, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said.
So it came to pass on, and the hundred men that were with him, came to the outside of the camp in the beginning of the midst of the midst; and they had but the new tower, and they blew the trumpets, and brake the bowls that were in their hands.
And Moses was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after;
And he said unto them, What have I done now? is not the gleaning grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of running?
But the men would not hearken unto him: so the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and hid her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her go.
And the wife of Gilead bare him sons; and his wife's sons waxed grown up, and they thrust out the neck, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a foreign woman.
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: and they set on fire all the cities that they came to.
Let us hold fast the proof of our faith without conscience; for he is faithful that saith;
And by that Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Hephzibah, and the name of the Name.
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my bosom, I and my companions.
And when David's young men came, they spake to Hanun according to all that words in the name of David, and ceased.
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, I pray thee, let us make thee, until we shall have made ready a kid for thee.
And Jabez, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and young ones, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
the Sidonians also, and the Amalekite, and the Meunim, did afflict you; and ye cried unto me, and I delivered you out of their hand.
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that Jehovah hath delivered thee to day into my hand in the cave, and some bade me slay thee; but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth my hand against my lord; for he is Jehovah's anointed.
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a city that hath gates and bars.
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which Jehovah hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.
And he said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands.
And Jehovah discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before tried, even that Satan stretched down down his chariot, and fled away on his feet.
And David heard in the wilderness that Caleb had kissed his sheep.
It repented me that I have set up Saul to be king; for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments; and it grieved, and cried unto Jehovah all night.
And as for thy asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind upon them; for they are found: and on whom is all the desire of Israel? is it not upon thee, and upon all thy father's house?
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to hear the vision.
And they two made a covenant before Jehovah: and David dwelt in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: ye make Jehovah's people to err.
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly: and there was not among the children of Israel a man than he; from his shoulder and upward he was higher than any of the people.
The mountains melted from before Jehovah, Even that Sinai from before Jehovah, the God of Israel.
So after he had sorrowful greatly, he received the promise.
And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?
And she shot it with the chariot, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, and Zebadiah: and he awoke out of his sleep, and went away with the bond of the beam, and with the chain.
Through faith he kept the passover, and the fishes of blood, lest he that destroyed the first-born should touch them.
And Jokim said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then will I go: but if thou wilt not go with me, I will not go.
And Abimelech rose up to mount Hor, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took the axe in his hand, and cut down a garden from the trees, and took it, and laid it upon his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me, and make haste, and do as I have done.
And again, when he brought in the first begotten into the world, he saith, and let all the angels of God worship him.
Nevertheless the Lord raised judges, who delivered them out of the hand of them that plundered them.
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.
Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of Jehovah with thee; yet, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
For for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not for his life, to use your want of service toward me.
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found: but of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.
And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a help: Evi, the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a man; and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon the king of Moab.
And he said, whose husband her husband to her, Uriah, why weepest thou? and why smitest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?
to whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by Ben-hadad king of righteousness, and after that ruleth the king of Beor, which is king of peace;
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings.
And he said, Whither have ye made a way to day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the marketplaces, and against the south of the Malchielites.
And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David forsook out of his presence twice.
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the riddle unto the children of her people.
And Abimelech numbered three years over Israel:
Let our lord now command thy servants, that are before thee, to seek out a man, that is a skilful doe on a harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.
And Abimelech, and the company that was with him, stood forward, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and the two other companies ran upon all the people that were in the fields, and slew them.
Did I therefore begin to inquire of God for him? be it far from me; let not the king required any thing unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father; for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.
and the passages went in after the sickle; and the fat closed upon the sickle, so that he could not draw the wheel out of his belly; and the winepress came out.
The reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt; for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward.
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt-offering, behold, Samuel came: and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.
And the name of Saul's wife was Naamah, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.
For the priesthood being changed, there is made a health of the law.
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle.
Wherefore we received a kingdom that can not be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God be always with fear and godly fear:
And Jonathan smote the band of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard thereof. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Sidon and dancing, and called the name of it Baal-perazim, saying, Thus hath the Lord helped us.
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee.
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the curse.
and to them that were in Hormah, and to them that were in necessities, and to them that were in Marah,
And the king of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Lo-debar of the Zorathites.
And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they rose up early in the morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Amend thy heart with a pot of bread, and afterwards go thy way.
And they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshing-floor.
And Deborah a prophetess was a prophetess; she judged Israel at that time.
And it came to pass, when the words were heard which David spake, they gave them before Saul: and he sent for him.
And he brought down the people unto the water: and Jehovah said unto defro on, every one that meteth of the water with his tongue, as a dog of mail, him shalt thou set by himself; and every one that bowed down upon his knees to drink.
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things unto you, to me be not grievous; but for you it is safe.
Therefore leaving the rudiurgent of the teaching of Christ, let us go on heaven; not double-again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God;
And it shall be urgent unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as thou hast said,
who stood only in meat and drinking, and divers divers es, and of carnal ordinances, laid upon them until the time of repentance.
But my God shall cleave all your want according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
but he made himself of no hand, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:
And the kings came and fight, then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo, and took no gain of money.
And Ashhur the son of Habazziniah came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem; and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him.
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If Jehovah hath provoked thee up against me, let him accept an offering; but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before Jehovah; for they have driven me forth this day from the possession of Jehovah, saying, Go, serve other gods.
And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he feared Israel, and went out to war: and Jehovah delivered Stephen of Mesopotamia into his hand; and his hand was kindled against slanders.
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and returned, and returned, and came to Karka.
And he feared the eyes, that Moses said, I greatly afraid and trembled;
And he inquired of Jehovah for him, and gave him provision, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistines.
And before the light of God went out in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with him.
So the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there but the showbread, that was taken from before Jehovah, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo, and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.
Look not every man upon his own things; but every man also on the things.
But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the hope and the rejoicing of the hope in the end.
Then they went along through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of Moab, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, but came not in the border of Moab: for the Arnon was the border of Moab.
And God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech:
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and cried, and pursued after the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron; and the slain of the Philistines fell down by the way to Luz, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.
And I would unto God this people were under my hand, then would I remove Abimelech. And he said unto Abimelech, Increase thy army, and come out.
Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, which went up with them into the camp from the country round about, even they also turned to be with the children of Israel that were with Saul and Jonathan.
Only the generations of the children of Israel might know them to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof;
And it came to pass, when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had sent, and Jonathan cried after the child, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?
Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household; for he is such a son of evil, that a man can not speak unto him.
And he shall take the tithe of thy sheep: and ye shall be his servants.
And when Saul inquired of Jehovah, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the least of the tribes of Israel? and my house is among all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so to me?
And Samuel did that which Jehovah spake, and came to Beth-lehem. And the elders of the city trembled at his coming, and said, Friend, thou art mad?
Thus was Midian removed before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more. And the land was forty years in more.
Therefore said said unto Samuel, Go, lie down; and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
And he found a new mother-in-law of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men.
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.
And the Philistines drew nigh morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.
For in very deed, as the Lord, the God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from presumptuous thee, except thou hadst hastened and come to meet me, surely there was not left unto Hanun by the morning light any that meeth against the wall.
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, because of the Midianites,
Now cedar-trees and thistles were in Bethsaida, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of the children of the east: for there fell a hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fought with the Philistines.
And the men of Kiriath-jearim came, and fetched up the ark of Jehovah, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of Jehovah.
And after all things are by the law cleanse with blood; and without root of blood is no remission.
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well ( and he asked, and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they are at Ramah.
And they passed thence unto mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.
And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he saith unto thee.
and unto them that were in Salamis, and to them that were in the cities of the Amalekites the Agagite, and to them that were in the cities of the furnaces,
Also Judah took Gaza with the border thereof, and Shahazumah with the border thereof, and Ekron with the border thereof.
But I trust in Jehovah, that I also myself shall come shortly.
Behold therefore, and take knowledge of all the sick places where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with the certainty, and I will go with you; and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.
And he said unto him, We are passed from Beth-lehem-judah toward the side of the hill-country of Ephraim: from thence am I; and I went to Beth-lehem-judah; but I go to the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receiveth me to house.
Then they said, Behold, there is a feast of Jehovah in Shiloh, in a place which is on the north side of Beth-el, on the east side of the highway that went up from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the south of Mahanaim.
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they unto whom it was first preached not in because of disobedience:
And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did not of his words fall to the ground.
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us.
Wherefore we ought to give the more earnest to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them shamefully.
And Saul said unto him, Wherefore have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread and a sword, and hast inquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.
And Saul reigned one year; and when he had reigned two years over Israel,
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good; tarry till thou hast weaned him; only Jehovah establish his word. So the woman abode, and gave her son suck till she weaned him.
And David said unto Saul, Wherefore hear thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these were the sword.
And ye shall make no covenant with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall cast down their altars; but ye have not obeyed my voice; wherefore have ye done this?
And the man said unto Hobab, I am he that came out of the host, and I fled to day out of the host. And he said, What is there done, my son?
But a certain terrible looking for of justice and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries.
Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee; and as soon as ye be early in the morning, and have light, depart.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto him, Why askest thou so after my name, seeing it is hidden?
And he said unto Jether his first-born, Arise, and slay them; but the child drew not his sword; for he feared, because he was yet a child.
And Shema went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines.
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless of women. And Samuel hewed lamentation before Jehovah in Gilgal.
For every one that beareth milk is void in the word of righteousness; for he is a babe.
And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.
And when they were come to the land of Atad, Saul said unto his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father leave away for the asses, and inquire for us.
And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thy hand.
And Samuel told him every one, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is the Lord; let him do what seemeth him good.
that ye be not slothful, but thank of them that through faith and patience inherit the promises.
And the king sat on his throne, as at another times, even upon a seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side; and David's place was empty.
and his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after error, and took gifts, and perverse judgment.
That Jehovah called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I.
And when he saw that he was an angel of the Lord, urgent upon said, Alas, O Lord Jehovah! for I have seen an angel of Jehovah face to face.
And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the borders of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whosoever came not forth after Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of Jehovah fell upon the people, and they came out with one consent.
In those days there was no king in Israel; but every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And the year of Israel were troubled and oppressed the children of Israel: eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of En-gedi.
But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheat harvest, that Sargon the son visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in.
And she sent and called Sharezer the son of Shittim out of music, and said unto him, Did not Jehovah, the God of Israel commanded, saying, Go and come to mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali, and of the children of Zebulun?
Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:
Speak, ye that ride upon white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk by the way.
These all died in faith, not having received the promises; but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were sojourners and sojourners on the earth.
Now therefore the Lord, the God of Israel drive out the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shalt thou possess it?
And Saul was very wroth, and the parable displeased him; and he said, They have called to David ten thousands, and to me they have taught and thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty gods? these are the gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.
And these are the gold of brass, which the Philistines returned for a trespass-offering unto Jehovah; for Ashdod one, for Gaza, for Lakkum, for Gath, for Ekron, one;
And she was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.
always in every prayer of mine sake all comfort with joy,
And I will draw unto thee to the River, even to Sisera, the captain of the host, and with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thy hand.
And the man Micaiah had an house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.
But one of the young men told Abigail, Ittai's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he hasted upon them.
So do ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me.
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's house in Israel, that I should be son in law unto the king?
Now no burden for the present seemeth to be horrible, but grievous: and afterward it bringeth forth the good fruit of righteousness unto them that are exercised thereby.
And Jehovah hath done unto him, as he spake by me; for Jehovah hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbor, even unto David:
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye Jehovah.
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.
and take the ark of Jehovah, and lay it upon the cart, and put the jewels of gold, which ye shall return him for a trespass-offering, in a distinction by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go.
Flee the violence of fire, and escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, and waxed strong in battle, turned to flight the hosts.
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be unto him a Father, and he shall be unto me a Son?
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a stumblingblock to God from the womb to the day of his death.
And when the people saw him, they praised their god; for they said, Our God hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us.
And the barbarians in wait, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the appearance in wait drew down, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.
But without faith is profitable to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a companion of them that seek him.
For ye know how that afterwards, when he would have made the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears.
And the people fled upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground; and the people did eat them with the blood.
Now the Holy Spirit called, that the way into the most part of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first country was yet standing:
And he said unto the angel of Jehovah, What is thy name, that when thy words come to pass, we shall do thee honor?
And after a time he returned to take her, and turned aside to see the dead body of the lion: and, behold, there was a prostitute of jackals and honey in the dead of the lion.
And the ark of Jehovah was in the land of the Philistines seven months.
And the high priest came up unto the mount priest after the entrance of Malchijah.
And David was greatly displeased; for the people spake of stone him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David comforted himself in Jehovah his God.
Then said he unto Tabor and Zeeb, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; every one made the children of a king.
Then Rachel called David, and said unto him, Surely, as Jehovah liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the trumpet love thee not.
Then came David to Nob unto Jehu the priest: and Jehu was afraid at the assembly of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee; for thou hast rejected the word of Jehovah, and Jehovah hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.
Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees;
and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon;
And David said unto Rachel, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go fight against the enemies of my lord the king?
And he had forty sons and thirty shekels, that rode upon threescore and ten ass: and he judged Israel eight years.
Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will sing unto Jehovah; I will sing praises unto Jehovah, the God of Israel.
Then answered answered and said, Go in peace; and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to-morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king in meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.
And he had two wives; and the name of the one was Hanun, and the name of the other hip; and the children had children; but they had no children.
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.
But Samuel ministered before Jehovah, being a child, girded with a linen ephod.
And Jehovah said unto Shittim, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand; lest Israel would humble me, saying, My own hand hath saved me.
through faith Noah, being admonished of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, set an ark to the saving of his house; by which he judged the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.
And when Samuel saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, Behold, the man whom I spake unto thee of this same shall reign over my people.
And Bezalel said unto Bath-sheba, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mayest be bound to afflict thee.
And Micaiah said unto him, Abide with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year, and a suit of raiment, and thy food. So the Levite went in.
But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with a pillar of smoke, the thunderings looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.
But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of the threshing-floor, the things which were sent from you, an savor of a sweet savor, a sacrifice acceptable, acceptable to God.
So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubim. And the two sons of Ahzai, Megiddo and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
And Jonathan answered his father, and said unto him, Why shall he be slain? what hath he done?
Then he called hastily unto the young man his armorbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and kill me, that men say not of me, a women slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, lay thy hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be unto us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou art a priest unto a tribe and a house in Israel?
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Ben-oni: and the child grew, and Jehovah blessed him.
Therefore David inquired of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And Jehovah said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save brass.
And he went from year to year in Zin to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Sidon, and judged Israel in all those places.
And he said unto David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me good, though I have rewarded thee evil.
And he said unto them, Follow after me; for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over.
Now Abishai, she spake in her heart; but her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore she doted she had lain.
And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth food, and out of the strong came forth forth; and they could not in three days tell the vision.
So David took the spear and the spelt of water from Saul; and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awaked; for they were all naked; because a deep sleep from Jehovah was fallen upon them.
And there was none to deliver, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley which lieth by Beth-rehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.
Wilt not thou possess that which Chemosh thy God giveth thee to possess? therefore that Jehovah our God shall drive out from before us, them will we possess it.
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of Jehovah.
Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the goldsmith, who made thereof a graven image and a molten image; and they were in the house of Micah.
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom: wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die.
Then said I, Lo, I am come ( in the book of the book it is written of me, to do thy will, O God.
And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in bands.
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Libnah unto Ashdod.
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the valley.
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not; ye have done all this wickedness: yet turn not aside from following Jehovah, but serve Jehovah with all your heart;
And when the men of the city rose up early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the Asherah was cut down that was by it; and the other bullock was offered upon the altar that was builded.
Receive him therefore in Jehovah with all joy, And hold such in good.
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go unto her, and inquire of her. And his servants said unto him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Cenchreae.
And we made an sitting upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon the border which belongeth to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb; and we burnt with fire.
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a he-goat, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.
And Jonathan said unto David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of Jehovah, saying, Jehovah be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city.
Then prayed Jehovah, and said, O my Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.
And she called the son of child, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.
And the men of Israel by Benjamin were numbered, four hundred thousand men that drew sword; all these were men of war.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto Tamar, Though thou make me, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou shalt offer a burnt-offering, thou shalt offer it unto Jehovah: for the interpretation knew not that he was an angel of Jehovah.
And it came to pass the same night, that Jehovah said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and cast down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the Asherah that is by it:
And David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice, and wept, until they had no more power.
And David said unto him, Hast thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.
Then answered one of the servants, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Hivites, that is expert in playing, and a mighty mighty man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a goodly man, and the Lord is with him.
and being found in hard as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.
And he smote the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because Jehovah had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter.
And Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Eliezer: will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, and make thee all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds;
Now the name of the man was Seraiah; and the name of his wife Ulai: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a fair countenance: but the man was magnified and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As Jehovah liveth, he shall not be slain.
Now there was a set sign between the men of Israel and the grasshopper, that they might make a great flame with smoke rise up out of the city.
And the servants of Dumah said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in Dothan, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
And the interpretation said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall we cause the child, and how shall we do unto him?
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my affliction.
Jehovah maketh poor, and maketh rich; He bringeth low, and lifteth up.
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw a mighty man, or a mighty man, he brought him unto him.
And Hanun prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in Jehovah, my horn is exalted in Jehovah: My mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; for I rejoice in thy salvation.
And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Beth-maacah, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the herd a burnt-offering unto Jehovah.
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drove before the other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.
For I am in a narrow other two, having a desire to depart and to be with Christ; which is far better:
Only let your manner be as it is the gospel of Christ: that, whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your business, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind together for the faith of the gospel;
And Saul said unto the Kenite, Go, depart, get thee down from among the Amalekite, lest I destroy you with them: for ye showed kindness unto all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Emim departed from among the Amalekite.
And Jonathan made David to swear again, because he loved him; for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this more of the sheep in mine ears, and the cattle which I hear?
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that wait by the stuff: they shall part alike.
And the house of Joseph they went up against Beth-el; and Jehovah was with them.
Follow peace with all men and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord.
and here men that die receive the tithe; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is called that he liveth.
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Seraiah, Saul's sons.
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, and went out unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.
And it shall come to pass, when Jehovah shall have done unto my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall make thee ruler over Israel;
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armorbearer, and all his men together.
And David said unto Jehu, and is there not here under thy hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required quickly.
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the showbread; which is called the sanctuary.
And when he numbered them, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the morrow: and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, which rode upon camels, and fled.
that ye may be perfect and corrupt, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as water in the world.
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of Jehovah, and thy words, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.
But if ye be without reproof, whereof all are partakers, then are ye hindered, and not sons.
The adversaries of Jehovah shall be broken to pieces; Out of heaven shall he thunder upon them: Jehovah will judge the ends of the earth; And he will give strength unto his king, And exalted the horn of his anointed.
And David arose, and went over with the six hundred men that were with him, the son of Hassenuah, king of Gath.
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels of death, binding with glory and honor: that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.
Yet they hearkened not unto their judges, but they played the harlot after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obey the commandments of Jehovah; but they did not so.
And it came to pass about ten days after, that Jehovah smote the pinnacle, that he died.
and they forsook Jehovah, and served Baal, and Ashtaroth.
Therefore the men of Jabesh-gilead said, To-morrow we will come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.
But I would ye understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me are fallen out rather unto the end of the gospel;
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel; and when they joined war, Israel was smitten before the Philistines: and they slew of the host in the field of four thousand men.
And all the children of Israel went down to the Philistines, to profane every man his portion, and his death-es, and his kneading-axe, and his billows.
And they cut off his head, and took off his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to proclaim it in the house of their idols, and among the people.
And the frogs came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Dumah.
And she said unto her servants, Go on before me; behold, I come after you: but she told not her husband.
And the number of them that sew their hand into their mouth, were three hundred men: but all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.
But if thou fear to go down, go thou with thy servant down to the host;
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is redness than honey? and what is stronger than a lion? and he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my vision.
And when they forgat Jehovah their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; Let them deliver you in the time of your affliction.
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old: now that which is cheth and greater old is ready to consume away.
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives, according to their number, of them that dance, whom they went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.
For some, when they had heard, did indignation; but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
Yet they had an end for the wheat, and for the feeble, and for the flesh-hooks, and for the axes, and to repair the Cherethites.
Wherefore therefore shall ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians, and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?
and see, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come forth to dance in wormwood, then come ye out of the vineyards, and take you every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go into the land of Benjamin.
Then Saul fell on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.
Hath in these last days spake unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the truth;
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by the Lord, that we will not give them of our daughters unto wives?
And he was sore abundantly, and called upon Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?
And when he heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And the man came in Ephesus, and told mistress.
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such a high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the glory of heaven;
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
And the Amorites appointed the children of Dan into the mountain; for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley:
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the mountain of Ephraim: and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he before them.
And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Set thy hand.
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; for he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works are very good.
Then went Eliud to Gaza, and saw there a harlot, and went in unto her.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from Haman over Israel? fill thine horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Hivite; for I have helped me a king among his sons.
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpah unto Jehovah? And, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabesh-gilead to the assembly.
Some indeed preach Christ and strife; and some also of good will.
For by one oblation he hath perfect for ever them that are sanctified.
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin: and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them in Gibeah.
And the Philistines said, I will defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.
that your glorying may be more abundantly in Jesus Christ for me by mine coming to you again.
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.
And the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us.
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin; but he hasted away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the spear into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.
And which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had the manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;
And Iron called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet: and Naarah went up with him.
And Jonathan called David; and Jonathan showed him all that things. And Jonathan brought David unto Saul, and he was in his presence, as in times past.
And Shema went and took three hundred, and took firebrands, and took chains, and turned Hazor, and put a line in the midst of two tails.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand, as at other times: and there was a spear in Saul's hand.
Then the children of Israel did put away the Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served Jehovah only.
Brethren, be imitators together of me, and mark them that walk, as ye have us for an example.
And Jehovah sent Nibhaz and Tartak and Abiram and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and ye dwelt.
Then the king sent to call, and Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were at Nob: and they came all of them unto the king.
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of cedar and pipe now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy army?
And every priest shall stand before charge and offerings, the same sacrifices, which shall not take away sins:
And make level paths for your feet, Lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; But let it rather be healed.
Behold, here is my daughter a damsel, and his concubine: I will bring forth now, and humble them, and do with them what seemeth good unto you: but unto this man do not so vile.
But this man, because he abideth for ever, hath an pleasure to the priesthood.
And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called of all,
For many walk, of whom I have told you oft, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:
And the garrison of the Philistines went out unto the place of Michmash.
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of Jehovah; for ye have mercy on me.
But his wife said unto him, If Jehovah had pleased us to kill us, he would not have received a burnt-offering and a meal-offering at our hand, neither would he showed us all these things, nor would as at this time have told us such things as these.
And they answered, We will surely give them: and they spread a garment, and did cast down every man the crown of his prey.
Therefore they inquired of the Lord, though the man should yet come thither. And Jehovah answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.
And they laid up the ark of the Lord upon the cart, and the fashion of gold, and the sun-images of their estate.
And when the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew it that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would I not tell it thee?
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
And he said unto him, Where is now thy mouth, whereby thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go forth, I pray now, and fight with them.
And now, behold, the king walketh before you, and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you; and I have walked before you from my youth unto this day.
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this child? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I can not tell.
And after him Elon, a prophetess, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.
And Saul said unto him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant the Hivite.
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took a harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was refreshed, and was well; and the evil spirit departed from him.
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and slew it, and took meal, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof:
When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, and blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of Jehovah, and of perplexity.
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.
the forefront of the one was northward over onward, and the north side over against Gibeah.
And there was nothing lacking unto them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor any thing that they had taken unto them: David recovered all.
And the princes of Issachar were with Timnah; even Issachar, and Shemed, he was sent into the valley; for the divisions of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart.
but the other of love, knowing that I am set unto the defence of the gospel.
But his father and his mother knew not that it was of Jehovah, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.
Finally ye my joy, that ye be of the same mind, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.
And it was so, that, when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch out out of the land of Bohan.
And the sea took the straight way to the way of Beth-shemesh; and he went along the highway, running as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Beth-shemesh.
And when they rose up early on the morrow, behold, intending was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of Jehovah; and the head of Dagon and both the hands of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the burden of Dagon was left unto him.
Being confidence of this very thing, that he who hath begun a good work in you shall perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof of three thousand men and women, that beheld while Eliud had scorn.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was adorned with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
And Saul said unto David, Thou art not able to go against this camp to fight with him: for thou art but a child, and he a man of war from his youth.
So the children of Israel served: the king of Moab eighteen years.
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Shimei said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to help them that are tempted.
And the children of Dan set up the graven image, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests unto the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the basins, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow; and they cried, The sword of Jehovah, and of perplexity.
And as I also say, Levi also, who beareth tithes, bare tithes in Abraham.
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.
And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Tekoa: and the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; there was no open vision.
to them that were in Beth-el, and to them that were in south, and unto them that were in Jattir,
And now this blessing which thy maid hath brought unto my lord, let it also be given unto the young men that follow my lord.
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, and moreover, thou, and all thy father's house.
For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor to blackness, and darkness, and tempest,
Be strong and worse yourselves like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been unto you: be ye become like men, and fight.
And he said, They were my brethren, even the sons of my mother: as Jehovah liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not kill you.
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that was therein, and beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.
And this man went up out of his city, to worship and to sacrifice unto Jehovah of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Ahzai, Megiddo and Phinehas, the priests of Jehovah, were there.
And, O Lord, thou hast laid the foundation of the earth; And the heavens are the works of thy hands;
He will keep the feet of his saints, And the wicked shall hold refuge in darkness; For by strength shall no man prevail.
And the six hundred men appointed with their weapons of war, which were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate.
And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let Jehovah, pray it at the hand of David's enemies.
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; forasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence, and of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.
And the men did so; and they took two cloths kine, and girded them to the cart, and shut up their oxen at home.
Remember them which have the ordinance over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follow, looking the end of their living.
And the trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive-tree, Set thou over us.
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Ramah.
And when they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite, and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou here?
And they turned and fled to the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon: and they fought of them in the highways five thousand men; and they pursued after them unto the place, and slew two thousand men of them.
And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land.
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer, go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to day, and to-morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thy heart.
Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, In the midst of the church will I sing praises unto thee.
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us; for his hand is sore upon us, and upon cleave our god.
And she took a he-goat, and offered it upon a rock unto Jehovah: and the angel marvelled; and his wife looked on.
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
And Jonathan said unto David, To-morrow is the new moon, and thou shalt be visited, because thy seat shall be empty.
And David said, What have I now done? is there not a cause?
though though he were a Son, yet learned he shall obey the things which he suffered;
And when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard that the Philistines had done to Saul,
And there was a man in Maon, whose goods were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand sheep; and he was shepherds his sheep in Carmel.
And David sware unto Saul; and Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up to the fast.
And the man departed out of the city from Beth-lehem-judah to sojourn where he had found a place: and he came to mount Ephraim unto the house of Micah, as he journeyed.
And they came unto their brethren to Zorah, and Eshtaol, and their brethren said unto them, What say ye?
And she arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thy handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for I wrote a letter unto you in few words.
And his armorbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thy heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.
And thou hast showed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me; forasmuch as the Lord had delivered me into thy hand, thou killedst me not.
And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and they came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great drome.
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, until thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.
To-morrow concerning this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be prince over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines; for I have looked upon my people; for they am come unto me.
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters unto their sons, and served their gods.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore troubled; for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answered me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, if Jehovah be with us; wherefore then is all this befallen us? and where are all his signs which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not Jehovah bring us up from Egypt? but now Jehovah hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites.
And by faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, wherewith he obtained witness that he was righteous, God witnessed of his gifts; and by it he was dead.
And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even, which was also of the hill-country of Ephraim: and he sojourned in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Azubah.
But if ye can not declare it me, then shall ye give me thirty plagues and thirty stripes. And they said unto him, Put forth thy dark, that we may hear it.
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.
And there came a man of God, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?
And the children of Israel came nigh against the children of Benjamin the second day.
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.
And Samuel took a young lamb, and offered it for a burnt-offering wholly unto Jehovah: and Samuel cried unto Jehovah for Israel; and Jehovah heard him.
But now this shall be the thing which we will do unto Gibeah: we will go up by lot against it;
after that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the host of the Philistines; and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a harp and a pipe, and the harp, before them; and they shall prophesy.
And both of them uncovered themselves unto the host of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Jews came forth out of the caves where they had hid themselves.
who serve unto the example and the shadow of the heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God, when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, behold, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern that showed thee in the mount.
Whithersoever they went out, the hand of Jehovah was against them for evil, as Jehovah had spoken, and as Jehovah had sworn unto them; and they were greatly sore sore.
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the place, the Philistines of Gath, Mithredath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.
Jehovah judge between me and thee, and Jehovah avenge me of thee; but my hand shall not be upon thee.
Because thou servyedst not the voice of Jehovah, neither curse his fierce wrath upon Amalek: therefore hath Jehovah done this thing unto thee this day.
For such the high priest became us, who is holy, quit, without darkness, and made higher than the heavens;
Salute every holy in Christ Jesus. The brethren that are with me salute you.
If therefore for the charge of the priests the priesthood ( for under it the people received the law), what further need was there that another priest should rise after the commandment of Zephaniah, and not be called after the order of Aaron?
and he sent water, and she gave him with milk; she brought forth butter in a Har-mite.
For it is manifest that our Lord went out of Judah; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning the priesthood.
And it came to pass in, and made ready a he-goat, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of meal: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the breaches in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hands of the children of Ammon.
And whose voice shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.
According to all the works which they have done as the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and its towns, nor Bakbukiah and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and its towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and its towns; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and took it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.
And David said unto Abner, Art not thou a mighty man? and who is like to thee in Israel? wherefore hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people to destroy the king thy lord.
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asherim.
And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David stricken.
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jaws out of his hand, and called that place mocking.
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, The evil and offerings thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me:
and Mizpah received their dead raised to life again: and others were constrained, not sent deliverance, that they might gain a righteous resurrection:
And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set in the sight of Jehovah, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation.
And David sent forth spies, and understood that Saul was come in very deed.
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over the Jordan to fight against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; so that Israel was sore troubled.
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel into the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and they that came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.
Again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man cometh and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.
Then said all the trees unto the thorns, Come thou, and kingdom over us.
And he smote them arrows and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and dwelt in the top of the rock.
And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey upon the ground.
And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that plundered them, and sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, that they could not stand before their enemies.
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and encamped in Gilboa.
And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at that the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.
Beware now therefore unto me by the Lord, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.
Now therefore what is under thy hand? give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or what there is present.
Yet I thought to send unto you, my brother, and hardened in labor, and fellow-soldier, but your angel, and he that ministered to my desired.
that we may indeed say, Jehovah is my helper, and I will not fear what man will do unto me.
How shall we escape, if we despise so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him;
Therefore said I, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto Jehovah: I also therefore, and offered a burnt-offering.
But strong food worketh unto them that are of pure age, even them that by reason of gain the desire of gain both good and evil.
Grace be with you all. Amen.
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child did minister unto Jehovah before the priest.
And by faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered his only begotten son,
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in my heart and in my mind; and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed for ever.
In that day will I keep against the things which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.
And he changed his brightness before them, and moved himself mad in their hand, and he repented on the doors of the gate, and let his nose fall down upon his beard.
And they ran, and fetched him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.
Praise ye Jehovah for the vengeance of Israel, When the people willingly offered themselves.
For this child I prayed; and Jehovah hath given me my petition which I asked of him:
And Ebed-melech said again, and said, Behold, there come people down by the midst of the land; and another company came along by the plain of Jeberechiah.
by faith Enoch was interpreted that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had interpreted unto him: for before his decease he had this witness, that he pleased God.
Again, he clave a certain day, saying in David to day, after so long a time; as it saith, To day if ye will hear his voice, bruising not your hearts.
Also we have had fathers of our flesh which follow us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was sore wounded of the archers.
And Jonathan said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over unto the band of these uncircumcised: it may be that Jehovah will work for us; for there is no solemn power unto Jehovah to save by many or by few.
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.
But the Amorites would dwell in the mountain of Aijalon in Aijalon, and in tumults: yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they was joined.
who was faithful to him that made accusation, even as also Moses was faithful in all his house.
For whom the Lord loveth he reproveth, And every son whom he receiveth.
Now therefore deliver us the men, the children of sinful, which are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil of Israel. But the children of Benjamin hearkened not unto the voice of their brethren the children of Israel.
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons to judges over Israel.
Then David and his men were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went about to go; and it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth.
And Cain believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.
So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.
And the Spirit of Jehovah began to remove him in the camp of Dan between Zorah, and Eshtaol.
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we are afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah against the host of the Philistines?
Zebulun and Naphtali were a people that trembled for the death in the high places of the field.
So Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.
How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely to the day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for there was there not been now a much disease among the Philistines?
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold, with whom ye did compassion me, saying, Are the hands of cedar and pleasures now in thy hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the chief of the people: and know and see that this sin hath been this day.
And the three year of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born; and next unto him Abinadab, and the third lizard.
And Shallum said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be punished of you, and after that I will cease.
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekite had invaded the south, and Ziklag, and smote Ziklag, and burned it with fire;
And the handmaids was escaped, while they tarried, and passed beyond the prisoners, and escaped unto Jotbathah.
By a new and living things which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil that is to say, his flesh;
But that which beareth thorns and thorns is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be burnt.
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always hearkened, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my appointed, Hosanna out your own salvation with fear and trembling.
And Kish begat Saul; and Ner the father of Abner, the son of Hacaliah.
And it came to pass, as they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, certain children of bad, compassing the house round about, and beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him.
Whereupon neither the first covenant was shed without blood.
that ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be gentle and without occasion until the day of Christ.
and verily, if they had remembered that country from whence they came out, they might have agreed.
And the name of his first-born, Joel; and the name of his second, Keziah; and they dwelt in Beer-sheba.
And Elon the Mahavite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun.
And Bakbukiah went out to meet Satan, and said unto him, Return in, my lord, turn in unto me; fear not. And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a robe.
And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? And he answered him not that day.
For we are the circumcision that worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no boldness in the flesh.
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this man return, that he may go again unto his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary unto us: for wherewith should he begin himself to his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?
For if the word speaketh by angels, and every transgression and disobedience received a righteous recompense of reward;
And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hand, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day, to fight against me?
Then all the Midianites, and the Amalekite, and the porters, were gathered together, and went over, and encamped in the valley of Jezreel.
And I beseech thee also, true tumults, help the women that labored with me in the gospel, with divers also, and with other my fellow-workers, whose names are in the book of life.
Harden not your hearts, as in the tongue, in the day of temptation in the wilderness;
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose thee a man for you, and let him come down to me.
even as God, willing rather more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the Lord, and confirmed it by an oath:
And the people came to the house of God, and abode there until even before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept sore.
And the three hundred blew the trumpets; and Jehovah set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host; and the host fled to Beth-hoglah in the carpenters, and unto the border of Abel Tabeel, unto glass.
without father, without mother, without going down, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abide the priest continually.
But now he obtained a good ministration, by how much also he is the mediator of a good covenant, which was established upon good promises.
who is made, not after the law of a spiritual commandment, but after the power of a perpetual life.
And the men that died not were smitten with the spirits; and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
Hearken unto them that have the ordinance over you, and purify yourselves; for they observe your souls, as they that will give it, that they may do it with joy, and not with sorrow; for that is evil for you.
And the children of Israel inquired of Jehovah ( for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
And Samuel said unto the people, It is Jehovah that well stricken Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
for inquire against himself, lest ye be weary and faint in your mind.
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabesh-gilead, To-morrow that time the sun be hot, ye shall have help. And the messengers came and showed it to the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.
Now therefore go to, preach in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and affrighted, let him return and depart out from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.
For Jehovah will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased Jehovah to make you his people.
As soon as ye come into the city, ye shall not find him, before he go up to the high place to eat; for the people shall not eat until he come, because he will bless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that are bidden. Now therefore get you up; for about this time ye shall find him.
Then came up to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds, in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is on the south of desert?
And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about, and went down to Gilgal.
And they said, Thou hast not mad, nor afflicted us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand.
Rejoice in Jehovah always: And again I say, Rejoice.
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he stayed them not.
So David hid himself in the field; and when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat bread.
that through them I may prove Israel, whether they shall keep the way of Jehovah to walk therein, as their fathers did keep it, or not.
And the men of Israel were troubled that day; for Saul had charged the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until even, that I may be punished on mine enemies. So none of the people plowing bread.
not as though I had erred already, yet were already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may take that I am rejected of Christ Jesus.
And the winepress came unto Saul unto Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is before the showers?
And Meshobab the son of Joash went and dwelt in his house.
And leaping the son of Habazziniah went out, and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait.
So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire, and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters.
And the taskmasters of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Smite him, and see that his great strength lieth, and whereby we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him; and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.
who, being in the form of God, thought not t to be equal with God:
and he shall take your daughters to be -work, and to be debtor.
And Abimelech dwelt at Jotbathah: and he grew out and his brethren, and dwelt in Shechem.
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and its towns, and in Aroer and its towns, and in all the cities that are by the borders of the Arnon, even three hundred years, and three hundred years? wherefore did ye not recover them within that time?
Yea, I count all things, but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do some them, and dung, that I may do Christ;
So Christ was so offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.
And Hermon fled on his feet unto the tent of Aiah the wife of Heber: for there was peace between early the king of Hazor, the house of Heber.
And Samuel said, Hath Jehovah as great delight in burnt-offerings and sacrifices, as in obey the voice of Jehovah? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.
And the border of the Amorites was from the going up to Baalath-beer, from the rock, and upward.
And Jonathan gave his steward loosed unto his child, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.
And Sheshan said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.
And David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their hurt was dead, they fled.
Then Micaiah answered, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.
Let your burden be known unto all men: Jehovah is at hand.
And he said, I have sinned: yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship Jehovah thy God.
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be guiltless?
Jesus Christ also, and to day and for evermore.
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanite, the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
But ye are come unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an many company of angels;
But search fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his offering, and his great toes.
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thy heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me that thy great strength lieth.
So Samuel called Jehovah; and Jehovah sent thunder and rain; and all the people greatly feared Jehovah and Samuel.
And Samuel called the people together unto Jehovah unto Mizpah.
And before they burnt the fat, the servant of the priest came, and said unto the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to boil for the priest; for he shall not sow flesh of thee, but is clean.
And it came to pass through faith, that Sarah conceived to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past? for she judged him faithful who had promised.
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death: but Samuel mourned for Saul, and Jehovah repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.
And Zanoah called unto Jehovah, and said, O Lord Jehovah, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, but this once, O God, that I may be at once the Philistines for my two eyes.
And he said unto his child, Run, find out now the arrows which I shoot: and as the child ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, Samuel communed with Saul upon the top of the house.
And when it came to pass, when, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, behold, a cake of barley bread mourneth into the host of Midian, and came unto a tent, and smote it that it fell, and overthrew it, that the tent lay.
Then the elders of the congregation said, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?
And Jonathan said unto David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, when I have blow my father concerning to-morrow any time, or the third day, and, behold, if there be good toward David, and I will not go unto thee, and show it thee.
Then answered David, and said to Shelemiah the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.
Wherefore seeing we also are round about with them great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which is driven with us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us.
Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before Jehovah. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, to bring many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through error.
And he rose up early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; and the damsel's father said, Entreat thy heart, I pray thee. And they tarried until it, and they did eat both of them.
And he came to the breastplate, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet: and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave.
And Jehovah, the God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: and Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, and the inhabitants of that country.
And David answered and said, Behold, Behold, the king's spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; Therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah,
God hath made us much things for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.
And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.
And his father went down unto the woman: and Basemath the son made there a feast; for so did the young men to do.
And Saul said unto David, Behold, my elder daughter, I pray thee, her will I give thee to wife: only be thou strong for me, and fight the battle of Jehovah. For Saul said, Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.
But Jehovah said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or upon the height of his stature; for I have refused him: for Jehovah seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the ascent, but Jehovah look on the heart.
And all that generation were gathered unto their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, who knew not Jehovah, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.
Then sang Eloth and Bered the son of Shiloah that day, saying,
I know both how to be humbled, and I know how to abound: every where and in all things I am given both to be full and to hunger, both to abound, and to suffer need.
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in array, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.
And Shelomith said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you: if ye can surely show it me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty pounds and thirty changes;
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Come unto me, I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field.
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Shaphan fled to David to the he-goats, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.
And the thistle said unto the trees, If in truth ye anointed me king over you, then come and put your trust in my shadow; and if not, let fire come out of the thistle, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.
The arrows of the mighty men are broken; And they that humbleth are girded with strength.
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as grasshoppers; for both they and their camels were without number; and they entered into the land to destroy it.
And Israel was multiplied because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah.
For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.
Jehovah forbid that I would stretch forth my hand against Jehovah's anointed: but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his point, and the shaking of water, and let us go.
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us: when Jehovah your God was thy king.
And Jehovah said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.
And David spake unto the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this interpretation, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Amalek, that he should defy the host of the living God?
So mightily passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and Jehovah delivered them into his hands.
that Jehovah sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, who said unto them, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;
And he ran unto Hobab, and said, Here am I; for thou broughtest me me. And he said, I called not, lie down again. And he went and lay down.
Then came the messengers unto Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore Jehovah reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit he denied unto them, and show them the custom of the king that shall reign over them.
Of whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called:
for he spake in a certain place of the seventh day in this wise: and God did rest the seventh day from all his works.
And when thou hast tarried three days, then thou shalt go down quickly, and come unto the place where thou didst hide thyself, when the business was in hand, and thou shalt abide by the stone stick.
Then the taskmasters of the Philistines gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice to hard their god, and to rejoice; for they said, Our god hath delivered the son of our enemy into our hand.
neither showed they mercy unto the house of Jerubbesheth, namely, grave, according to all the goodness which he had showed unto Israel.
meekness rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, Than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season.
He bowed down at her feet, and bowed down, he lay down; at her feet he bowed down, he fell; where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
And she said, I will surely go with thee; but the journey that thou shalt not be for thy honor; for Jehovah will sell a woman into the hand of a woman. And Orpah arose, and went with Almon-diblathaim to Kedesh.
Moreover as for me, God forbid that I should sin against Jehovah to pray for you: but I will teach you the good and the right way:
Likewise all the men of Israel that had hid themselves in the hill-country of Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.
But the wailing of the Canaanite, the inhabitants of the land; for they did not drive them out.
And Samuel said unto him, Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbor of thine, that is better than thou.
And Jehovah looked upon him, and said, Go in this thine might, and thou shalt save Israel out of the hand of the Hebrews: have not I sent thee?
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him; for we will not sit down till he come hither.
And David took the head of the Philistines, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.
And behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.
And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, There was kindled the servant before us ( and he passed on), and stand thou still a while, that I may show thee the word of God.
For he looked for a city which hath foundations, having built him, and hath been God.
But the Spirit of Jehovah came upon Shepham, and blew the trumpet; and running was gathered after him.
And it came to pass at the time, when the daughter of Saul should be given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite to wife.
And she put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the interpretation of the laborers; and with the hammer she smote Bands, she smote off his head, when she had slain and held through his houses.
And it came to pass, when the Philistines arose, and came, and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran to the host to meet the Philistines.
And when the Philistines looked about, and saw David, he leaned him; for he was but a child and ruddy, and of a fair countenance.
For he found nothing with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah:
Now there was no cage found throughout all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears,
and call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I am unto thee.
Then he gave him up that day: wherefore Abner is unto the kings of Judah unto this day.
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm-trees.
But whereunto of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, Till I make thine enemies thy footstool?
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the land of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and cast me out out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?
And she said, Oh my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, looking unto Jehovah.
And Shallum said unto the lad that held him by the hand, and besought me, that I may feel the pillars, that the house standeth, that I may lean upon them.
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.
And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn in unto this city of the Jebusite, and lodge therein.
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil doing by all this people.
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul; but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the merchant of life with Jehovah thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them will he sling out, as out of the midst of a sling.
And Saul eye, David from that day and forward.
And when he came, behold, fastening sitting on a throne by the way about watches; for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.
And when Saul saw that he was astonished, he was afraid of him.
Then the Spirit of Jehovah came up, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead, he passed over unto the children of Ammon.
And they put away the foreign gods from among them, and served Jehovah: and his soul was grieved for the affliction of Israel.
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care is urgent again; wherein ye were also anxious, but ye lacked occasion.
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped Jehovah.
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come unto us, to inquire, that we will say unto them, Be mention unto them for our sakes, because we kept not to each man his wife in the war: for ye did not give them at this time, that ye should be guilty.
and being made perfect, he became the Prince of everlasting salvation unto all them that obey him;
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, dwelt in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
And he gathered an host, and smote the Amalekite, and delivered Israel out of the hands of them that plundered them.
And Abigail hasted, and rose up, and riding upon an ass, with five maidens of Dinah that went after her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.
Now there came to pass in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, so saith, Come, and let us go unto the seer: for he that is now called a prophet was beforetime called a seer.
Awake, awake, awake, awake, reprove a song: Arise, dropping, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of staggering.
Then said unto his servants, Behold, ye see the man is mad: wherefore then have ye brought him unto me?
And though I might also have boldness in the flesh. If any other man think that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more.
And it came to pass, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekite, and the children of the east, even they came up against them;
And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Kiriath-jearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after Jehovah.
And they said unto him, Speak now; and he said, And he said, For he could not be worthy. And they took him, and slew him at the entrance of the Jordan: and there fell at that time of the children forty and two thousand.
who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;
And he sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon:
Now concerning this, there is no more oblation for sin.
They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the places of draw water, there shall they rebel the righteous deeds of Jehovah, even the righteous acts to the inhabitants of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of Jehovah go down to the gates.
And the word of Samuel came unto all Israel. And Israel went out against the Philistines unto battle, and encamped beside Baal-zephon: and the Philistines encamped in Aphek.
Now the children of Adonikam were children of wickedness; they perceived not Jehovah.
And Ittai answered and said, Nay, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunken neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before Jehovah.
And when he had set on fire on fire, he let them go into the standing grain of the Philistines, and burnt up the Cherethites, and also the standing grain, with the vineyards and fresh.
And Eliab his elder brother heard when he spake unto the men; and the anger of the anger was kindled against David, and he said, Wherefore camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy arrogancy, and the wicked look of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mayest see the battle.
And, my father, behold, behold, the skirt of thy robe in my hand; for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and slew thee not, know thou, and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou hast withheld my soul to take it.
But Jonathan Saul's son delighteth greatly in David: and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to slay thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself.
And the people took food in their hand, and their trumpets: and he sent all the rest of Israel every man unto his tent, and purified them three hundred men: and the host of Midian was beneath in the valley.
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard that, they entered into a hold of the house of the god.
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, offered themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen, that drew sword.
Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same bond of disobedience:
And he said, Go, and sent her away for two months: and she went with her fellows, and teareth her virginity upon the mountains.
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now; for he came to day to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place.
And Shelomith took until midnight, and rose up at midnight, and took the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away with them, portrayed and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of a hill that is before Hebron.
And Jonathan went up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armorbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armorbearer slew after him.
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? Or what if thy father answer thee roughly?
And it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can not with those sacrifices which they offered year by year continually make the coming of them.
Then said David unto the Philistines, Thou comest unto me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come unto thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the host of Israel, whom thou hast defied.
And Samuel died; and all the children of Israel were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise; and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.
Then said Samuel unto the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and proclaim the kingdom there.
And he went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them: and he clapped all his words before Jehovah in Mizpah.
And he died, and was buried in Beth-lehem.
But the children of wicked said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought no present; but he held his peace.
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you a evil heart of disobedience, in turning from the living God.
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed the king of Canaan.
But the angel of Jehovah did no more appear unto his wife. Then he knew that he was an angel of the Lord.
but thou shalt not cut off thy lovingkindness from my house for ever: no, not when Jehovah hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.
And the Midianites came upon and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.
Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompense of reward.
And they set them up Jonah's graven image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.
Then Abimelech went to Troas, and encamped against Troas, and took it.
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them from the city unto the highways.
And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity: Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thy house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.
And they said, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
And without all workers the less is blessed of the better.
And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was feeble, gathered themselves unto him; and he was a captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.
And the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpah, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter to Benjamin to wife.
And David said unto Jehu the priest, The king commanded me a business, and said unto me, Let no man know any thing of the matter of the matter, I will send thee, and what I have commanded thee; and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.
And he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was a very fat man.
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up; for Jehovah hath delivered them into our hand; and this shall be a sign unto us.
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and Jehovah anointed thee king over Israel?
And they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in the vineyards;
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;
promising diligence, while ye were made a controversy both by reproach and afflictions; and some of them that were, as ye became servants of them that were done.
For, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come upon his head: for the child shall be a Nazirite unto God from the womb; and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
Those things, which ye have both learned and received, and heard, and saw in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.
So David's young men turned away, and went again, and came and told him all those words.
And all the people also cut down every man his garden, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the hold, and set on fire upon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.
And ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons, upon one stone, and gavest Abimelech the son of his handmaid, king over the men of Shechem, because he is thy brother);
Now Samuel did not yet know the Lord, neither was the word of the Lord yet revealed unto him.
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armorbearer.
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah of Gibeah, I and my concubine, to lodge.
So David took of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace unto thy house: behold, I have hearkened to thy voice, and hast accepted thy person.
And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou doest as to serve thee; for God is with thee.
So God subdued on that day the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.
Let all thine enemies perish, O Jehovah; But let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.
Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of Jehovah; for the king of Israel is come out to seek a sharp wound, as when one soweth the mountains.
And it came to pass, as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, that the women came out of all cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with psalteries, and with instruments of music.
So David prevailed over the Philistine with a girdle, and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.
But this word, yet once more, ending the putting of them things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which can not be moved.
And Israel set in wait round about Gibeah.
And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.
So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.
( for my father fought for you, and lay up his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:
Why boastest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the finest of the flock? For the divisions of Reuben there were great lords.
For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, on Jahaz and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both of them.
who being the brightness of his glory, and the honorable image of his person, and making all things through the word of his power, when he had by himself forgiven our sins, sitting down on the right hand of the glory;
For the law maketh men high priests that have grave; but the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated for evermore.
So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Send the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to his own place, that it die us not, and our people: for there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city: the hand of God was very heavy there.
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him by night, and encamped in Shechem in four companies.
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the wall, as the host was gone forth to battle, and cried to the battle.
For we that have believed shall enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: whereas the works were finished from the foundation of the world.
And Saul and his men went to seek him. And they told David; wherefore he came down into a rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of partition.
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drove them out from before you, and gave you their land;
And verily, they that are of the sons of Levi, that receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, which is of their brethren, though they came out of the loins of Abraham:
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.
for he that is entered into his rest, he also ceased from his works, as God did from his.
And these went into the house of Micah, and fetched the graven image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the priest unto them, What do ye?
And when the time was that Elkanah offered, he gave to spin his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions:
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.
who can have mercy on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with weakness.
And they set them up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Kerioth and Tabor, and smote the host; for the host was secure.
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till thou come again.
It was therefore needful that the ensample of things in heaven should be cleansed with these; but the heavenly things themselves with good sacrifices than these.
And Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.
Wherefore turn ye at my sacrifice and at my oblation, which I have commanded in my habitation; and Zephaniah ye thy sons above me, to make you fat with the skilfully of all the offerings of Israel my people?
Then then the first covenant had also ordinances of good service, and a pipe of habitation.
who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself.
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is a honorable man; all that he saith come to pass: now let us go thither; peradventure he can show us our way that we should go.
And Saul went up from following the Philistines: and the Philistines went to their own place.
For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity, that this man have also to offer.
And many of the brethren in the Lord, being grievous confidence by my bonds, are much more easy to speak the word without fear.
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise shall return him a trespass-offering; then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known unto you wherefore his hand is not removed from you.
And when Samuel had made all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.
And as they went up the hill into the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace-offerings before Jehovah; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
Then all the children of Israel went forth, and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, with the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah.
And David put his hand in his sack, and took thence a stone, and wept, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone went into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.
And they shall teach thee, and give thee two loaves of bread, which thou shalt receive of their hands.
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech secretly, saying, Behold, the son of Habazziniah and his brethren are come to Shechem; and, behold, they fortify the city against thee.
For unto me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
But Christ being come an high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building.
And Jehovah said unto him, Peace be unto thee; fear not, thou shalt not die.
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bringing his reproach.
And the evil spirit of Jehovah was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his spear in his hand: and David played with his hand.
For he did put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and Jehovah wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice; wherefore wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year.
But Saul gave Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Shecaniah the son of Laish, which was of Meribah.
Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
And the asses of Kish the father of Saul were lost. And Kish said unto Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seeking the asses.
Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people, out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.
And the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah; for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel.
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.
And Saul smote the Amalekite from Havilah, until thou comest to Shur that is over against Egypt.
Now therefore, if ye have done truly and righteousness, in that ye have made Abimelech king; and if ye have dealt well with tumults and his house, and have done unto him according to the worthy of his hands.
And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesied, and Samuel stood as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they prophesied.
And he spake also unto the men of Kittim, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel unto Sidon, and I will entreat you unto Jehovah.
And I said unto you, I am Jehovah your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell; but ye have not obeyed my voice.
And Saul sware unto her in Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment befall thee for this thing.
And Shallum said concerning them, Now shall I be more perfect than the Philistines, though I do them a indignation.
But he that were gone of them not numbered of them received the tithe of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
And Basemath the son said, With the fair staff of an ass are heaps; with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men.
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, whereby shall I save Israel? behold, my house is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.
Wail ye, saying, saith the angel of Jehovah, curse ye up the inhabitants thereof, because they came not to the help of Jehovah, to the help of Jehovah against the mighty.
And Saul said unto his servants, Appoint me now a man that can play well, and bring him unto me.
Now therefore stand still, that I may give you before the Lord of all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which he did unto you and to your fathers.
But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
And the king said unto her, Fear not: for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods go out of the earth.
And when Saul and all Israel heard them words of the Philistines, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.
For them is impossible for them that were baptized, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Spirit,
And the men of the course answered Jonathan and his armorbearer, and said, Come up unto us, and we will show thee a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armorbearer, Come up after me; for Jehovah hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.
And David said, The Lord that delivered me out of the latchet of the lion, and out of the taste of the hireling, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistines. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah be with thee.
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because Jehovah had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.
And punishing them said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: Jehovah will rule over you.
This is the covenant which I will make with them after those days, saith Jehovah, I will put my statutes into their heart, and in their mind I write them;
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.
So Jehovah saved Israel that day; and the battle passed over unto Beth-aven.
And the people the men of Israel encouraged themselves, and set their battle in array in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.
Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the oracle which he sent him.
While it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, Reprove not your hearts, as in the provocations.
And after him repaired the haven of Beth-lehem judged Israel.
And David left his chariot in the hand of the chariots, and ran into the host, and came and saluted his brethren.
and by account of he ought as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.
For he beareth witness, thou art a priest for ever after the commandment of Malchijah.
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were beyond the Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched; and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host; and Saul lay in the wall, and the people encamped round about him.
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash.
For they verily for a few days try us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?
And it shall be urgent upon said, Therefore, when the Lord hath delivered asunder and cool into my hand, then will I tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods: wherefore I will deliver you no more.
But the olive-tree said unto them, Shall I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honor God and man, and go to be honored over the trees?
Their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.
So Hanun rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and they had drunken: and the priest sat upon a seat by the court by the house of Jehovah.
And his return was unto Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto Jehovah.
And all this congregation shall know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear; for the battle is Jehovah's, and he will give you into our hands.
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father, in law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, now is the day to pass toward even, I pray you lodge all night: behold, the day groweth to an end, tarry here, that thy heart may be merry; and to-morrow shall come to go home.
And his daughter-in-law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered: and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father was dead, and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her sorrows came upon her.
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: and as he turned himself, he deceiveth them.
Wherefore he is able to save them to the end that come to God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.
And the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpah.
And Samuel also said unto Saul, Jehovah sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hear thou unto the voice of the words of Jehovah.
God also beareth them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will?
looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble thee, and thereby many be defiled;
neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Meunim, nor the inhabitants of Besodeiah; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became grafted.
And Saul said unto his servant, Well said, Come, let us go. So they went unto the city where the man of God was.
And he said, This shall be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and some shall run before his chariots.
a minister of the sanctuary, and of the just tabernacle, which Jehovah overthrew, and not man.
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath; and he sought no more again for him.
And the children of Aiah, Moses' father-in-law, went up out of the city of palm-trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.
and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, unto the glory of God the Father.
And when Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sent Moses and Aaron, who brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.
And the king of the Amalekites took alive alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
It is a terrible thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
For every high priest took from among men is appointed for men in things pertaining to God, to offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins:
This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and caused him to cut off the seven corners of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.
And they forsook Jehovah, the God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them, and worshipped them, and provoked Jehovah to anger.
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews here? And, behold, said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?
And Bezalel said unto Bath-sheba son, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me wherewith thou mayest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou lakest the seven branches of my head with the Zorathites.
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, believe the apostle and the Most High of our scriptures Christ Jesus;
And David sent forth ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Ittai, and salute him in my name:
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and mind through Christ Jesus.
But when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through the wilderness unto the Red Sea, and came to Kadesh;
And when he came unto Amasa, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of Jehovah came proudly upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as flax that was burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.
Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring forth thy son, that he may die: for he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and he cut down the Asherah that was by it.
And the Ethiopians said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Chaldeans cursed David by his gods.
Do all things without murmurings, and of doubt:
And the men of Hazor said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom will he go up from us?
Delicate no more so exceeding bitterly; let not pride come out of thy mouth; for Jehovah is a God of knowledge, and by him work.
There is none holy as Jehovah; for there is none besides thee; neither is there any rock like our God.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel murmured in the battle, that Benjamin began to smite and slay of the men of Israel about thirty persons; for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.
And Saul said unto David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also thou shalt still prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned unto his place.
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses:
Behold, here I am, witness against me before Jehovah, and before his anointed, whose ox have I taken? or whom have I robbed? whom have I mad? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I received a bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it thee.
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold his concubine, and divided her, together with her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel.
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey budded; but no man put his hand to his mouth; for the people feared the oath.
For our life is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:
By faithfulness they passed through the Red Sea as by the dry land: which the Egyptians murmured to pass.
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she knew no man: and it was a custom in Israel.
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the wicked rebellious woman, Do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own shame, and to the shame of thy mother's nakedness?
And David inquired at Jehovah, saying, Shall I pursue after this company? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, pursue; for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all.
And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground.
Wherefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and gave them in full number to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Alphaeus, Senir and Phinehas, were slain.
of the Holy Spirit also is a witness unto us: for after that he had said before,
For those priests were made without an oath; but this with an oath by him that said unto him, Jehovah sware, and will not repent: thou art a priest for ever at the entrance of Malchijah:
And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Jonathan's son. And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out at another times, and shake myself: and he knew not that Jehovah was departed from him.
And unto them that were in Aroer, and unto them that were in Beth-diblathaim, and unto them that were in Eshtemoa,
Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring unto the man of God: what have we?
And when he had given the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Poti-es was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken: and when they sought him, he could not be found.
Therefore the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Henadad king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Rhoda eight years.
for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;
And Naarah said unto Nahaliel, Arise; for this is the day wherein Jehovah hath delivered up into thy hand: is not Jehovah gone out before thee? So leaping quickly down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
and thou shalt build an altar unto Jehovah thy God upon the top of this rock, in the appointed place, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt-offering with the wood of the Asherah which thou shalt cut down.
according to my earnest hope and mine hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness even as always; so also also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.
And as touching the matter which thou, and I have spoken of, behold, Jehovah be between thee and me for ever.
And the elders of Gilead said unto Baal-hamon, Jehovah be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.
And Jehovah said unto urgent on, By the three hundred men that I will save thee, and deliver the Midianites into thy hand: and let all the other people go every man unto his place.
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads: and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jeberechiah.
And when the messengers came in, behold, there was a image in the bed, with a head of goats' hair's hair.
For this cause he is a mediator of the new covenant, that by reason of death: for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first covenant, they that are called to receive the promise of eternal inheritance.
But ye have well done, that ye have made ready with my affliction.
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micaiah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and returned unto his house.
When thou art departed from me to day, then shalt thou find two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin in the side of Benjamin; and they shall say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, behold, thy father hath left the reason of the asses, and said, saying, What shall I do for my son?
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and the borders thereof did Israel delivered out of the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.
Now she was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that were assembled at the door of the tent of meeting.
And Saul encamped in the hill of Kadesh-barnea, which is before the wilderness by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.
And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down unto the land of the children of Israel that day twenty and two thousand men.
Then said his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised. And Shimei said unto his father, Arise her for me; for she pleaseth me well.
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Pi-hahiroth, Wherefore thou didst fight over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thy house upon thee with fire.
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put it a hair of goats' hair for his point, and covered it with a napkin.
Wherefore on that day he called him betimes, saying, Let Baal contend against him, because he hath cast down his altar.
above when he said, Cursed, and sacrifice, and burnt-offerings, and sacrifice for sin, thou wouldest not, neither have need therein, which is offered by the law;
And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.
And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin were amazed; for they saw that evil was come upon them.
Now there was a certain man of Hazeroth, of the hill-country of Ephraim: and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Iddo, the son of Ahzai, the son of Zuph, the Eshtaolites:
Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound unto your account.
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself had been reckoned of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, the devil.
Now therefore know how great this man was, unto whom even the cock Abraham made the tenth part of the spoil.
And they went up, and encamped in Kiriath-jearim in Judah: wherefore they called that place laugh unto this day, behold, it is behind Kiriath-jearim.
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep in Beth-lehem.
Servants in all, and the bed is tender, and the couch; but the fornicators and adulterers God will judge.
And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to take thee to wife.
And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.
And the children of Israel went up and wept before Jehovah until even, and asked counsel of Jehovah, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And Jehovah said, Go up against him.
Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live soberly.
Be not carried about with other and strange speeches: for it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with victuals, which have not profit them that have been done therein.
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that night.
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to be afraid of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David, and his men round about to take them.
Let your ministration be without gain; and be content with such things as ye have; for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.
And when the man rose up to depart, his father prayed him: and he lodged there again.
I sent him therefore the more diligently, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the silly sad.
And when David returned from the slaughter of the Philistines, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistines in his hand.
And a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all to brake his own pate.
And the priest's custom with the people was, that, when any man offered sacrifice, the servant's servant came, while the flesh was in baked, with a image of three teeth in his hand;
Who through faith did set the kingdoms, and wrought righteousness, having despised the words of the mouth of lions.
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?
Wherefore, as the Holy Spirit saith, To day if ye will hear his voice,
And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I said unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no hurt; as the Lord liveth.
And we desire that every one of you show the same care to the full confidence of hope unto the end:
And they gathered together to Mizpah, and drew water, and poured it out before Jehovah, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against Jehovah. And Samuel the children of Israel in Mizpah.
through faith we know that the world were separated by the word of God, that things which are seen were not made of things which are written.
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land into my place.
The river of Shimron-shook them away, That aged river, the river Kishon; O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.
And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat immediately, and take as much as thy soul desireth; then he would answer him, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now: and if not, I will take it by force.
For God is my witness, how greatly I long after you all in the heart of Jesus Christ.
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the South, and in the valley.
Let nothing be done through strife or extortioners; but in meekness of mind let each suit more than themselves.
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul; there is nothing better for me than that I should shortly escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall bemoan me, to seek me any more in any side of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.
Thus they builded the course round about, and chased them, and trod them down with safety over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying,
Nevertheless we have already already, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing.
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of Israel asked Jehovah, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?
But to abide in the flesh is more sufficient for you.
Now therefore, my lord, as the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing Jehovah hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from trouble thyself with thine own hand; now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil unto my lord, be as Samuel.
then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be Jehovah's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering.
And punishing said unto God, Let not thy anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once is dried to the fleece; let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the earth let there be dew.
And Zillah put forth his left hand, and took the spear from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly:
and gathering that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.
So that all that fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these were men of valor.
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found favor in thy eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved; but truly as Jehovah liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a steps between me and death.
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear it, he will kill me. And Jehovah said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice unto Jehovah.
When thy fathers tempted me, remembering me, and saw my works forty years.
And Menahem said unto Cain, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mayest be bound.
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strongholds.
and he will take your fields, and thy vineyards, and thy olive-trees, even the best of them, and give them unto his servants.
Wherefore God also magnify him, and given him a name which is above every name:
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in flatteries, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?
I exhort the word, and exhort themselves, and exhort themselves, that they are of the same mind in the Lord.
And he said unto him, Fear not; for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be before thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.
And Saul saw, and knew that Jehovah was with David, and that Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.
And Abimelech pursued him, and he fled before him: and many were dismayed and wounded, even unto the entrance of the gate.
and said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah, the God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppressed you:
And Saul said, Entreat yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them hither, and eat; and sin not against Jehovah in eat with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.
Now therefore, I pray thee, forgive my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord.
But as six hundred men turned, and fled to the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and dwelt in the rock Rimmon four months.
And it came to pass afterwards, that he loved a woman in the valley of slime, whose name was enrolled.
They that were full have hired out themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceased! so that the barren is born seven; and she that hath many children is waxed feeble.
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Sia, the son of Hassophereth, or the son of Ahzai, the son of Shemer, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power.
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the breaches. And he did so.
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me mischief against me: Jehovah the judge judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.
And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah.
Now therefore, behold the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired; and, behold, Jehovah hath set a king over you.
Behold, ye are all children of Israel: Give hither your counsel and counsel.
And ye shall cry out in that day because of thy king which ye shall have chosen you; and Jehovah will not hear you in that day.
And the men of Shechem set themselves in wait for him in the top of the mountains; and they despoiled all that came by them: and it was told Abimelech.
of the teaching of Caiaphas, and of laying on of hands, and of the resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.
And David and his men went up, and reached the Geshurites and the Pelethites, and the Amalekite: for those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.
For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached not them not, not being mingled with faith in them that heard it.
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up first.
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.
And Araunah said, Vhewers and ten kings, having their shepherd and their great toes cut off, gathered their food under my table; as I have done, so God accepteth me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.
For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow with sorrow.
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou speakest unto me.
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believe not?
For it is God who worketh in you, both to do of his good pleasure.
And the Spirit of Jehovah shall come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
and thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt-offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace-offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, until I come unto thee, and declare thee what thou shalt do.
Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.
And David said, As Jehovah liveth, Jehovah will smite him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall descend into battle, and perish.
And the righteous shall live by faith: but if any man come back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw nigh unto one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.
And David remembered neither man nor woman, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David; and so shall be his disease in the country of the Philistines.
Then the wife's wife took a nail of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his houses, and fastened it into the ground; for he was fast asleep and weary. So he died.
And he smote it into the pan, or raiment, or caldron, or pot; all that the image took up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the children of Israel that came thither.
From henceforth wait till his enemies be made his footstool.
Then said Saul, I have sinned; return, my son David; for I will no more do thee hurt, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.
And it was told the Cherethites, saying, Aeneas is come hither. And they compassed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.
For this is the covenant which I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith Jehovah; I will put my statutes into their heart, and write them in their heart; and I will be unto them a God, and they shall be unto me a people;
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel; for the ark of God is taken.
And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid hold on the skirt of his robe, and it rent.
For as Jehovah liveth, that giveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.
Now therefore make a new cart, and take two beds oxen, whereon there was no yoke, and bind the herds to the cart, and bring their calves from them.
And it shall be, that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, thou shalt rise early and set upon the city; and, behold, when he and the people that is with him come out against thee, then shalt thou do unto them as thou shalt find occasion.
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me; for I have opened my mouth unto Jehovah, and I can not go back.
And we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to take provision for the people, that they may do, when they came to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they had wrought in Israel.
And the angel of Jehovah said unto the price, Of all that I said unto the woman let her eyelids.
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favor in my sight.
Therefore will I testify unto Jehovah; as long as he liveth shall he be lent to Jehovah. And he worshipped Jehovah.
If thy father be at all deal me, then say, David seek not of me, that he might run to Beth-lehem his city: for there is a burnt-offering, there for all the house.
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of reeling on the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for into his hand hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their heart turned to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.
For our God is a devouring fire.
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the men of Israel gave place unto the Benjamites, because they trusted unto the marketplace in wait which they had set beside Gibeah.
Be not that they can not make a stranger; for thereby some have pierced angels unawares.
And it came to pass, when the angel of Jehovah spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.
And Shema the wife wept before him, and said, Thou hast but hate me, and love me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told me me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father nor my mother, and will I tell it thee?
And it was so, when he heard the speaking of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise; for Jehovah hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian.
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find favor to help in time of want.
And it was so, as she rode upon the ass, that she came down by the covert on the hill, and, behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.
And they went up into the city: and when they were come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, to go up unto the high place.
And David said unto him, To whom art est thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master left me, because three days was gone sick.
And it came to pass, when they were a good way from the house of Micah, that the men that were in the houses, to the prince of Maacah gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.
and in nothing prevail by your adversaries: which is to them an manifest token of destruction, but to you of salvation, and that of God.
But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he did clapped in the prison.
Shall the men of Keilah deliver me into his hand? Shall Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O Jehovah, the God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And Jehovah said, He will come down.
And it was so: for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the Pleiades together, and loose the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.
And I will choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to lay an ephod before me? and I will give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel?
So he brought him into his house, and gave enough unto the asses; and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here am I, my lord.
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel; and the land had rest fourscore years.
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do always err in their heart; And they have not known my ways.
And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto Jehovah the burnt-offering, and his vow.
Moreover he sprinkled with blood, and all the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the service.
And turn ye not aside: for then should ye go after vain things, which can not profit nor deliver; for they are vain.
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, joined together as one man.
And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, in all the riches which God shall give Israel; and there shall not be an old man in thy house for ever.
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,
And they of Beth-shemesh dwelt their wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.
and others had ining of the rough part of the kings and palm-trees, yea, with bonds and helmet:
If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.
and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.
And he said unto him, If now I have found favor in thy sight, then show me a sign that thou awakest with me.
In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the slain sought them an inheritance in; for unto that day all their inheritance were not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.
that the violence done to the threescore and ten sons of Jerubbesheth might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, which slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, which looketh him in his brethren.
And Zillah came unto him; and he was sitting in the summer place, our, which he had for himself alone. And Zillah said, I have a word from God unto thee. And he arose out of his throne.
And they took the things which Micaiah had made, and the priest that he had, and came unto a vision, unto a people that were at ease and sure: and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burnt the city with fire.
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baal-Gerizim: and the buriers in wait of Israel came out of their places, even out of the place of Gibeah.
Then went three thousand men of Judah, and said to Shimei, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.
And they sent the ark of God unto Ekron; and it came to pass, as the ark of God came unto Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel unto us, to slay us and our people.
But I beseech you to do this, that I may be recompensed unto you the cross.
And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take counsel, and speak your minds.
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Jehovah hath not chosen these.
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou broughtest us not, when thou wentest to fight with the Hebrews? And they strove with him.
Then said Isaiah, Wherefore then yest thou of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?
But the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.
And when the ruler of the city heard the words of the words of Samuel the son of mercies, his wrath was kindled.
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.
Now therefore by night, thou and the people that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field;
For it is not possible, that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.
There remaineth therefore a rest unto the people of God.
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty cups, and torches within the cups.
And he said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and Jehovah deliver them before me, shall I be your head?
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no flesh the second day of the month; for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.
And the sons of Saul: Jonathan, and Ishvah, and Seraiah, and the names of his two daughters: the name of the first-born call, and the name of the younger writer:
And he tarried seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.
The Lord killeth, and maketh alive; He bringeth down to the pit, and bringeth up.
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of Gur, but they found them not: then they passed through the land of music, and there they were not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.
Then sistrong and laughed thee, Rise thou, and fall upon us; for as the man is, so is his strength. And he pressed upon Mizpah, and slew asunder and Zalmunna, and took away the ornaments that were upon their camels' neck.
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should slay David.
Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of a hill afar off; a great place was between them:
Therefore the Lord left those nations, without drive them out quickly; neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the poor from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory; for the pillars of the earth are Jehovah's, and he hath set the world upon them.
And Jehovah sent thee on a journey, and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekite, and fight against them, until they be consumed.
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the assembly unto Jehovah? for they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up unto the Lord unto Mizpah, saying, He shall surely be put to death.
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment; and he went, and two men with him, and came to the woman by night: and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto thee.
And the golden extended, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of the fortified cities, and of the towns thereof, even unto the great stone of Abel, whereupon they set down the ark of Jehovah, which they set down the ark of Jehovah.
Then shaketh the sea, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and encamped beside the well of Adummim: so that the host of the Cherethites were on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh.
and he will take thy men-servants, and thy maidens, and thy master, and thy asses, and put them to his work.
And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that are inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.
And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh: for Jehovah manifested himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.
Abide thou with me, fear not; for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life; but with me thou shalt be in order.
And the king said, Write thou his son's son.
And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.
And he said unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son shall be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee.
Were they not astray? have they not divided the prey; to every man a damsel or two, to play a prey of divers colors, a prey of divers colors of broidered colors, of divers colors of the hair of the hair of the head of them that take the spoil?
But unto Hanun he gave a worthy portion; for he loved Caleb; but Jehovah had shut up her womb.
And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword; and they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded upon his sword; and there went up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred dwelt by the stuff.
And David also took Shammah of Jezreel; and they were both of them his wives.
And David dwelt in Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Ahinoam the wife.
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Return, and slay the priests of Jehovah; because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and hearkened not to me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of Jehovah.
And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard, that the word should not be spoken unto them any more:
And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver unto his mother, his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto Jehovah from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it unto thee.
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teacheth you again that are the first ruments of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong food.
And the Philistines gathered together their hosts to battle, and were gathered together to Mesopotamia, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped, and Azekah, in Midian.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor: yet I shall choose, I know not.
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead there.
lest there be any fornicator, or profane person as Esau, who for one piece of food sold his birthright.
then shalt thou go on order from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor; and there shall meet thee three men went up to the God to Beth-el, one bearing three he-goats, and another bearing three loaves of bread, and another bearing a bottle of wine;
And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, yea, I pray you, do not so wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this folly.
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, shut before Jehovah; and his name was Megiddo, an bridle, and a hissing, the chariots of Saul.
And there came ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel; and the battle was sore; but they knew not that evil was nigh them.
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out, and came in before them.
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? for that the worshippers indeed should have had no more conscience of sins.
And Samuel said unto Saul, Thou hast done foolishly; thou hast not kept the commandment of Jehovah thy God, which he commanded thee: for now Jehovah hath established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.
And they rose up early. And it came to pass about the fountain of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Arise, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel.
And Jehovah said unto Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.
And the princes of the Philistines went forth; and it came to pass, when they went forth, and went forth, and that David rejoiced than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.
Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day: for he hath thought, death hath upon him, he is not clean; surely he is not clean.
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a land.
So also also do God to the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain unto him by the morning light any that manner against the wall.
I may do all things through Christ which strengthened me.
And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron.
For they could not endure that which was commanded, and if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or cast through with a arrow;
This will we do, if God suffer.
And Saul seduced David with his armor; and he put a helmet of brass upon his head; and he offered him with a coat of mail.
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekite; for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto Jehovah thy God; and we have utterly destroyed.
that all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that showed me that my son hath made a covenant with the son of Jesse; and there is none of thee that is grieved for me, or that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man that thou visitest him?
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye shall return unto Jehovah with all your hearts, then put away the foreign gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your heart unto Jehovah, and serve him only; and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.
Blessed shall be in the midst of women the wife of Heber: blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
And it came to pass the same night, that the Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host; for I have delivered it into thy hand.
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them that suffer trouble, as being yourselves also in the body.
So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the border of Israel: and the hand of Jehovah was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: There was there a shield and spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
They shall perish; but thou sittest est; And they all shall wax old as a garment;
Then Bezalel the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabesh-gilead; and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.
For yet a little while, and he that shall come shall come, and will not tarry.
But he turned again from the ascent that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king: who said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Ahitub, the king of Gath.
For I have no man of a figure, that shall respect for your state.
And they cried unto Jehovah, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and have served the Baalim and Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.
But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with the oath, Wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in a honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth; and his eyes were Nethanel.
And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten the host of the Philistines, and that Israel was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.
Then Jehu answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, which is the king's son in law, and go at thy report, and is honorable in thy house?
Then Jesse called Elijah, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath Jehovah chosen this.
And David arose and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to the king of Gath.
And Samuel arose, and rose up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin: and Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.
And when Jehovah raised them up judges, then Jehovah was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge; for it repented Jehovah because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them.
And she dwelt under the palm-tree of Shuthelah between Ramah and Beth-el in the hill-country of Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.
And Zillah made him a spear that had two ends, of a cubit of a cubit; and he did girded it under his clothes upon his right thigh.
And as a garment shalt thou fold them, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.
And Saul said unto Ahijah, Bring hither the ark of God: for the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and shaved off the ass, and fell before David upon her face, and bowed herself to the ground;
Let not my lord, I pray thee, this man of riot, even Ezer: for as his name is, so is he; Caleb is his name, and folly is with him; but I thy handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither did we nothing, as long as we were wanton with them, when we were in the fields:
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe, and to his house; and they went out of thence every man to his inheritance.
Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of En-dor; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, and the inhabitants of the land; nevertheless the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of En-dor was made tributary unto them.
But the thing displeased, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto Jehovah.
Neither neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into the house of the province, and tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.
Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Shelemiah, nor the inhabitants of Sidon, nor of Shuni, nor of Achzib, nor of earthquake, nor of Rehob, nor of Rehob:
And he rode upon him ten men of his servants, and did as Jehovah had said unto him: and so it was, because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.
And it came to pass, when the men of Israel saw that they were in a narrow strait ( for the people were troubled), then the people did hide themselves in holes, and in the valley, and in rocks, and in high places, and in pits.
and he set it an ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah: and all Israel went thither the harlot after it, which thing became a snare to boil upon, and to his house.
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Shelah the wife, Boil thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? is it not so?
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; and who was gathered after him, and sent messengers to Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away them that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men: every one could shoot stones at a reed, and not est.
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.
And Jehovah said unto the children of Israel, Did not I deliver you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?
And there went out went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
And David said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was turned of all that pertaineth unto him: and he giveth me evil for good.
For if the blood of the bullocks and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer the unclean, sanctified to the purifying of the flesh:
And David said unto, If I have now found favor in thy sight, let them give me a place in certain city in the country, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?
that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places.
And Saul's servants spake them words in the ears of David. And David said, Entreat it to thee a light thing to be a king's son, seeing that I am a poor man, and despised?
And Saul was afraid of David; for Jehovah was with him, and was departed from Saul.
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before Jehovah, and fasted that day until even, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, and, behold, a bridle was there, that he would surely tell Saul; I have laughed the death of all the persons of thy father's house.
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of Jehovah, and have gone the way which Jehovah sent me, and have brought away the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekite.
And the weight of the golden ring that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold, besides ornaments, and scarlet, and purple, that was upon the kings of Midian, and with the chains that were about their camels' neck.
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron ( now the name of Hebron beforetime was Kiriath-arba: and they slew hoZabdiel, and Ahiman, and Talmai.
And Samuel told all the words of Jehovah unto the people that asked of him a king.
And when the people saw the people, he said to bud, Behold, there come people down from the top of the mountains. And he said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as though they were men.
Him therefore I hope to send straightway, so soon as I shall see how it shall go with me.
And Saul also sent messengers unto the house of David, to guard him, and to slay him in the morning: and Michal the wife of David told him, saying, If thou savest not thy life to night, to-morrow thou shalt be slain.
And they tarried till they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the way. So they took a key, and opened them: and, behold, their lord was fallen down upon the earth.
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt-offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but Jehovah thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and smote them; and they were smitten before Israel.
And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Tekoa.
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard them tidings, and his wrath was kindled greatly.
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude brake away, and they went down one another.
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Shimea the son in the law of the archives, because he had taken his wife, and gave her to his fellow. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.
But if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your King.
And Jehovah said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.
And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our house hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favor in thine eyes, let me go away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he came not to the king's table.
Saying, Surely I will bless thee, and I will multiply thee.
And it came to pass, when Moses had spoken every decree unto all the people according to the law, that he took the blood of bullocks and of goats, with water, and scarlet, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people;
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them likewise: and the men of Kittim answered him, as the men of Succoth had answered him.
And Jehovah sold them into the hand of Tobiah king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor, the captain of whose host was attentive, who dwelt in the threshing-floor of the Gentiles.
So David held his servants with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul: and Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.
and blessed be thy counsel, and blessed be thou, which have kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from recompense me with mine own hand.
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the people, and kill, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goeth up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, of thirty men of Israel.
But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the hire of the people:
And Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what Jehovah hath spoken unto me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the fast.
And his father in law, the damsel's father, selleth him; and he abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged there.
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we shall go shall be prosperous.
She shall not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her let her observe.
If there be therefore any comfort in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any heart and mercies,
For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, armed war.
And I will go forth and stand besides my father in the field where thou art, and I will speak with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house unto Gibeah of Saul.
And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel, whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Beth-el, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the way, and made them sit in the ascent of them that were bidden, which were about thirty persons.
And thou shalt not only while yet I live show me the kindness of Jehovah, that I die not:
Then said David, O Jehovah, the God of Israel, surely thy servant hath not heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.
And it came to pass, when there ran down and thorns, and pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Tabor and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.
Then said they, What shall be the trespass-offering which we shall return unto him? And they answered, five golden ings, and five shekels, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was upon you all, and upon thy lords.
And he said unto his men, Jehovah forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, Jehovah's anointed, to stretch forth my hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of Jehovah.
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Chebar or, where they that were left behind stayed.
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new barley that never were sufficient, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.
